ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u1	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u2	Mr President! There is a Government proposal 64 related to the amendment of the Employment Pensions Act and the Health Insurance Act. I would have liked to ask the Minister about this, but unfortunately he is not here. When the matter has been dealt with here and opinions have been requested, the Welfare sector HALI says here and suggests that a time-out should be taken in the preparation of the law, in which case the impact of the proposal on tax and pension income will be examined in greater detail and the impact of the proposal on the shortage of doctors as a new point of view. I would have liked to know what this means. Does this presentation have a potential effect on the shortage of doctors or on the relief of the shortage of doctors? This proposal is strongly linked to the idea of a care guarantee, because we want more doctors and we do not want legislation that would not bring these doctors.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u3	The conversation is... Let's see. — All right, Mr Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u4	Thank you, Mr President. There is a somewhat confusing situation here, but this is a rather important legislative package relating to the amendment of legislation on occupational pensions and health insurance. I wonder if this is what the Minister is going to present, or are we going to have a debate here, even though the Minister is in the Chamber? However, this is a government proposal, and in that sense I am now a little confused. The President was already closing the whole debate, but is the rapporteur coming? Or isn't he?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u5	We are having a debate and the Minister has the right to participate in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u6	Mr President! I'm glad the minister showed up. I do not know if you have heard, but, in fact, Mrs Juvonen has asked a very relevant question. Recently, we have been talking about a social welfare reform, a nurse's guarantee and access to a doctor and all sorts of ways to get us new doctors. It has been suggested that there will be a thousand new doctors. In fact, I would also like to ask if you have any plans, how to get these doctors now and where to get more of them. It was a very important question for Mr Juvosen as to what the effects of this proposal are, whether to reduce the number of doctors here or whether to increase the number of doctors here. It is good that our representatives from the People's Republic of Finland are awake, so that this debate, too, did not go into the clous very quickly, so to speak. Mr Juvonen has rightly raised a very important question.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u7	Mr President! Thank you for the second speech. Indeed, we have a thick piece of legislation in our hands, and I draw attention to the view of the welfare sector HALI that this drafting of the law should take a time-out and also ask for an impact assessment. The medical shortage is mentioned here as a new point of view, and I would like to ask you now that this hugely thick bill is, of course, strongly linked to your intention to provide a care guarantee: Does this government proposal have an effect to increase the shortage of doctors or to alleviate the shortage of doctors? Very important questions. And how do you respond to this view of HAL? Just as Mr Meri said, this improvement in the availability of doctors is a top priority, and it is very important that we stick to it. Let us talk about the fact that we need those doctors, not about the multiprofessional team, what you, the government, want to tell us. Finns want to see a doctor, and it is therefore extremely worrying whether the proposal will have an effect that will increase the shortage of doctors.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u8	Mr President! Good thing the Finns kept the conversation alive. [Leena Sea interlude] We have a shortage of doctors in this country. In recent days there has also been widespread news that health centres are in a deep crisis: there is no access to a doctor. There is talk of a nurse's guarantee and access to care, and it has been reported that more doctors will be hired next year through the central health programme for 70 million. But then experts have told us that $70 million cannot be used to hire doctors. Now, of course, it would be good to find out whether or not this $70 million is available for the Health Centre Programme to recruit supplementary doctors.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u9	Mr President! Indeed, thank you to the Finns and Christian Democrats for giving the floor here so that the ministers could at least be placed in the Chamber for a moment. Looks like another minister left. [Department : Second Skid! ] But indeed: Finland has very good special care, but our primary health care is the most unequal in the OECD countries. There's no access to the health centers. There are unemployed people, families with children, pensioners. Now that the government has well promised that 1,000 doctors will come, I hope to hear how this bill will affect the availability of doctors. And I would like the ministers or government representatives to tell me what kind of measures are actually being taken to get these 1000 doctors. We were delighted to hear it when Minister Kiuru said that now EUR 70 million will be put in the search, the regions will be able to apply. And the minister said that if this money doesn't get those doctors, then there's no way. But now that the STM officials have said, after the Minister has spoken, that no doctors can be hired and that this goes into development projects, would it be right and reasonable for Parliament to know what this money can be spent on and what money is going to be used for these doctors? We want the Assembly in the parliamentary group to have access to social and health services. We really think it is wrong for pensioners not to get to the health centre, not families with children, not the unemployed. We ourselves can use occupational health care here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u10	Mr President! I would have liked to take a look at these substance questions of the performance itself. Firstly, it is suggested that if an employee has been aware that the employer has failed to pay his pension obligations, no pension will accrue for that period. I would have liked to know how the ministry has taken note of the fact that many of these situations may be related, for example, to the fact that this worker has been in some kind of understated position, perhaps even in forced employment or in a similar employment relationship. So he may well have been aware that his employer does not necessarily make these payments. Nevertheless, it seems quite unreasonable that the worker is the one who is suffering from the fact that he does not have a pension. Consider, for example, human trafficking situations or similar situations, the worker may have a very strong suspicion that no pension contributions will be paid. And in that sense I would have liked to know from the Minister whether it has been taken into account that in such a situation, for example, pension cover will then be available to the worker if this happens. Then the second question relates to this point of the proposal, which concerns the fact that which pension institution solves this pension application and, in fact, slightly derived from it: we know that there has been a lot of discussion around these wars about the fact that when outsourcing is carried out and these workers move to the private side, these contributions are lower than in Spring. When, at least in the last period, there were strong doubts as to whether these so-called uncovered pension liabilities were managed in that Spring, I would have asked whether or not the fact that pension contributions are different in different pension institutions would have an impact on the possible social security solutions of this government. And thirdly, when we talk here about this right to pension from unpaid periods. In Finland, we have so-called imputed pension accumulated during home care support and also through studies leading to a degree. This is something I have been working on to some extent and I have come to the confusing conclusion that these pension liabilities are currently not funded. In other words, those pension liabilities will be paid to future governments at the time when these people, such as those who have now been supported by home care, are going to claim their own pension cover. And I understand it's all about billion-dollar responsibilities. In 2002, when this matter has been dealt with here in Parliament, these few benefits have been added, but these are not funded. It's been promised that we'll find out along the way. But we haven't figured it out. And we have unfunded pension liabilities there, which are these so-called pension liabilities from imputed pension periods.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u11	Mr President! This is indeed where I share the concern of the other representatives. We have such a good way here that ministers present such remarkable legislative changes, and actually a little thought that proudly present their own ministries and administrative reforms here, and I would like to do so. I would like to draw your attention to the same thing as Mrs Essayah, to the idea that there is no pension for the employee if, for some reason, the employer has not increased it and paid it, and if the worker has been aware of this: That's a pretty big responsibility right now we're putting on an employee. After all, there may be many reasons why he does not engage in such activities, for example, to report the matter in some way. I would like the Minister to be able to open this up a little, which has been the motive for such a drastic change.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u12	Mr President! I would also like the new government to see such important multi-page government proposals presented to Parliament in a referral debate by the Minister and then to be prepared to answer questions. And thank you for the fact that the Minister is there in the box and I am sure he will now also be taking part in this debate. I myself drew attention to the fact that here, in terms of the gender impact, it is stated that ‘the changes proposed in the calculation of the wage-freeretirementretirementretirementretirements proposed are expected to increase the cost of workretirement from the parental I'd like you to open this up a little bit more. In fact, there have been quite a lot of different points to be made in the preparation of this matter, and it is good to have an answer in this referral debate. And I would also like you to respond to this message from the Welfare sector, HAL, in which they are concerned about the impact of the proposal on the shortage of doctors. I understand that this view of Mr HALI has not been taken into account in this proposal, but I am sure that the Minister will be able to explain it to us now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u13	Mr President! I will pay attention to the same thing as representatives Juvonen and Räsänen. In the government proposal, paragraph 2.5, second paragraph, refers to labour input social security, which currently works in the way that doctors can receive part of their salary as a labour input bonus, so that the employer or the company that pays its dividends does not have to pay social security contributions for it, even if it is taxable wage income, i.e. social security contributions and pension insurance contributions are not required. And now, if this government proposal removes this possibility, it would be good to find out how this affects the availability of doctors in the public sector. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u14	Mr President! I would like to praise the opposition on these constructive issues. I think they have been very proper and, among other things, those concerns about this possible shortage of doctors are such that I think it is all right for the Minister to be prepared to respond to them. There is certainly an increasing need for doctors in this country. But instead of simply considering such mechanical measures as to how many more doctors are always needed or how much money is always needed to produce services, I would also like to draw attention, among other things, to: A very expert article in the medical journal on such system failures and the importance of trouble demand in our social and health care, and I hope that such structural issues will also be addressed, not only in mechanical matters, such as the number of doctors. However, all this is very important and I hope that this good question of the opposition will also be answered.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u15	Mr President! On this issue, the Confederation of Finnish Industries has stated: ‘The Confederation of Finnish Industries has no comment on the management of the proposal. “ This is also rarely said by employees — in this case the Medical Association, which belongs to Akava. Akava has stated: ‘Akava has remained in preparation for the presentation. Akava has no comments on the proposal.’ STT has stated that ‘STK has remained in preparation for the presentation in three-pronged stages. STK has no objections to the proposal.’ For me as a new Member of Parliament, it has been a kind of experience that when we discuss the issue of A, we will be talking about trafficking in human beings, health centres, billions of people's pension responsibilities, gender impact and so on and so on. This is very much a technical arrangement, whether doctors work as a professional or in so-called associated companies, where part of the professional income can then be taken as a dividend, in which case it is taxed differently and it has different pension arrangements and practices. This will have no negative impact on the availability of doctors in the labour market. As a professional, I have dealt with perhaps 20,000 medical contacts, and I think that the issues in the HALI report are totally exaggerated when it says that, for example, working as a professional means bureaucracy so much that it reduces the professional work done by doctors, for example, in addition to official work. It is a very little bureaucratic work, which means that I have now been made a bull out of a fly with these questions from the opposition. This is a very technical solution, as stated here in the opinions of the employer, EK and Akava.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u17	Mr President! Thank you for this good, interesting debate. I promise you, ladies and gentlemen, that here I will always be proud to present the proposals of this government and my own legislative proposals, but let me say that this proposal is a proposal from the last period which will now be brought to your attention by this government. This proposal relates to the reform of the payment criteria for daily allowances in the last period.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u20	Mr President! Am I right to say that whenever the parliamentary term ends, the legislative proposals will expire and all the proposals that the government will bring will be government proposals? It has now been said here, on behalf of the Socialist Group in Parliament, that a fly has been bullied here, but it has only been requested that a significant bill be presented, that the Minister present the bill and answer the questions relating to it. I believe that this is a fundamental right for parliamentarians, and I hope that this type of debate does not have to take place here. There was also reference to pension liabilities. We are talking about pensions here, and I think that was a good speech, which Mrs Essayah raised here. I would now like to take this opportunity to say that I cannot go anywhere without being asked whether the government is really going to cut down on occupational pensions. The Government Programme reads that the possibility of raising the smallest pensions within the earnings-related pension scheme will be investigated. In other words, this would mean, for example, taking the euro out of the pensions of policemen and nurses and transferring it to the smallest pensions. It is important that the purchasing power of pensions is ensured,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u25	Mr President! I must say that I was also surprised by what Mr Lindén said about the fact that the opposition here, for its own amusement, would raise these issues. Not at all — this is purely about the preparation of the matter, including this statement by HALI regarding the medical matter and the possibility of this proposal increasing the shortage of doctors in Finland and what this will mean. I also believe that whenever a parliamentary term ends and if a bill is not submitted, it will lapse. Then the next government will have the opportunity to make possible repairs and filings that are seen to be necessary there. And in that sense too, I feel it is important to have this debate here to raise the issues. In other words, HALI says here that this proposal will have an impact on this shortage of doctors. And that is what I would have liked to hear about whether it has an added effect on the shortage of doctors or whether it may have an additional effect on doctors. What is the essence of a poodle in this matter? For Finns, it is very important that a person manages to retire with it. We are concerned about the small pensioners and, of course, we are also concerned about these pension issues in relation to this proposal. We have always been on the line that is best for Finland. And especially the elderly, the elderly, pensioners, are close to the heart, and why not. They have built this Finnish country. We also think it's important that they get to the doctor there. So when you are bringing in this care guarantee law, will it now ensure that these pensioners, nurses, nurses who have built Finland, who also care for you, all of us, can get to the doctor themselves if necessary? That is what this is all about, and it is great, Minister, that you are here to answer. You're a little late, but sometimes we're all late.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u26	Mr President! I should also like to comment on this speech by Mr Lindén, the representative of the Social Democrats. First of all, if you look at the Constitution, it has dealt with the points that Parliament, as the supreme legislative body of the country, deals with legislative proposals. There is a referral debate which tells us what is at stake, and the Minister often tells us what is at the heart of it. Parliament's representatives give their own views, their own greetings to the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy — this is quite normal. If you hope that there will be no debate, that they will go very quickly. as technical matters, so of course this kind of speech can be expected. I do not know in what capacity anyone may be able to say that someone, such as the statements made by HALI, would simply be ‘in my opinion’ because I would like to see more arguments being given. I could also say that in my opinion this and that, but that is not the information that was then studied. You also read very selectively these examples of yours. You said that Akava had nothing to say about the proposal. Regrettably, you failed to read the following phrase: ‘However,it is notable that the proposal is problematic in terms of the interpretation of taxation and pensions’.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u29	Mr President! It happened to my ear when Minister Pekonen pointed out that, when this large package of proposals, which also contains a lot of technical content, was prepared during the previous government, so it should not be for the current government, as I understand it, to demand a great deal of justification. Of course, the fact is that most of the proposals that are being submitted to Parliament at this stage have already been prepared during the previous government, and yet it is quite clear, and we are certainly all agreed that the current government bears the political responsibility for the proposals that it brings to Parliament, even though the preparatory work has, of course, already been carried out during the previous government. I think this is important, and I also think that the new ministers should have this in mind. Moreover, the current government has an army of assistants at its disposal to think that some of these assistants would have found time to familiarise themselves with this proposal and make notes to the Minister for this referral. Later today, we are discussing this cut-off of the Mayan cent, but even in this context, when we talk about the pension system in greater detail, this question was very well-founded by Mr Sarkomaa that, since the situation of small pensioners who may receive a pension of between EUR 1200 and EUR 1400 a month, this cut of Mayan will not improve at all, is it really the intention that their pensions will be improved within the earnings-related pension scheme, as agreed in the Government Programme? Everyone will understand that if you leave within the earnings-related pension scheme to move any increases for some small pensioners, it will then come from other pensioners. Indeed, I would warn the government not to engage in this kind of tampering with the occupational pension system. If the government does not have the political will or the ability to carry out the demarcation promise, which was of course oversized, then let it not be carried out, as has now been the case with the presentation of the cut-off of the centurion, which will be discussed later today, and let this be the case. But if, at the same time, it is agreed that there will be an entry into the earnings-related pension system and perhaps, for example, take away the middle-income pensioners in order to carry out President Rinte's election promises, then I think that this is an incorrect procedure. In this respect, let the pension system be consistent and good in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u30	Mr President! I humbly accept all the guidance that has been given to me here, and I have now learned that, for example, it is correct to speak now of the centenary of May Day when there is a different kind of presentation in this Chamber. I am quite familiar with this point, and I therefore raised three other opinions here, because this was raised from several statements in this introductory speech in the light of just one paragraph of the opinion, which was critical of this issue. And if I now read exactly where this debate began in Mrs Juvose's speech. ‘If doctors do not have an easy way of working, many of This makes the shortage of doctors even worse.” After all, this is a purely HALI assessment of how interested doctors are, in addition to hospital work or a health centre, in providing private reception and how it is affected by the way in which it is taxed. To date, doctors in the public sector in their main job have applied for an exemption from entrepreneurship pension contributions, i.e. they did not raise a pension for themselves from that entrepreneurial income at all. I can tell you that I did this myself in my own time when, over the course of 21 years of work, I did a private reception in addition to a public service. I obtained an exemption from the entrepreneurship pension contribution, when this is basically such a tax and pension technical reform, which is what this is all about, and that is why I wanted to bring up a few other arguments about this by quoting the statements that were made by many different parties. But thank you most humbly now for the lesson that it is now possible to talk about the Mayan crop and the billion - dollar deficits and what it was now possible to talk about.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u32	Mr President! After all, this has in principle been a question of opposition parliamentarians asking for a bill to be presented. We've been asking you some pertinent questions about the bill. We haven't had the answers to all the questions. Here a representative of the government party has said that we have made a bull out of a fly. This is a serious job for a congressman. It is important that the draft law should be presented by the Minister, even if it had been prepared during the previous government. It is always the government's responsibility, and I hope that this will not become a practice. On this record of the Government Programme, when it comes to occupational pensions: Indeed, the Government Programme includes the possibility of raising lower pensions within the earnings-related pension scheme. What would that mean? Two options: either to cut off those ordinary, hardworking, middle-income pensioners. They would be cut off, nurses would be cut off and then given it to pensioners receiving a slightly smaller pension. Or to raise pension liabilities to send the bill to future generations, our children and grandchildren. This report is contained in the Government Programme. And I say here, Minister, that I have asked a number of Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government, whether you are going to do this or not, who presented this, what this is going to do? I haven't had any answers. If I don't get that answer today, then I'm going to end up with that written question. But it would be good if we could get an answer here together as to whether this study is to be carried out. And the fact is that if this type of action were to be taken, the entire occupational pension scheme would be scrapped, and this is unheard of. Election promises have always been made, and hopefully they will be kept even more in the future. I do not remember any government that has failed so many election promises at this early stage,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u36	Representative Laiho, and then Minister Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u37	Mr President! This amendment to the Employment Pensions Act and the Health Insurance Act is a thick piece of paper, and its content is also significant. That is why I agree with the previous speakers that it would have been necessary to have a minister's presentation on this. In its opinion, HALI points out that it is essential to take a time-out in preparation, since the impact of this proposal on tax and pension income has not been adequately investigated. We also need to take into account the effects of the presentation on the shortage of doctors. Akava also points out that the draft law should be clarified, and it should also be illustrated how it will affect in practice in different operating models and situations. HALI has highlighted here the effects of this on the shortage of doctors, and this is indeed a matter to be taken into account. At the same time as we are planning the future social and health centre model and should strengthen basic health care, we must not be in the process of making legislative changes that could make it difficult for some groups to operate, or making changes that do not encourage doctors or other professionals, for example, to work there in basic health care, which would be the aim. To Mr Lindén, as a point of detail, there is currently no exemption from YEL entrepreneurs' pension. I myself have not at least received an exemption from it, but it is compulsory for everyone at the moment. Perhaps during the time when Mr Lindén has been a doctor, this has been the case, but at the moment it is compulsory for everyone to pay even if he is employed by a public employer. I would also like to mention the fact that we need to make it possible to have different solutions for doctors in primary health care. Of course, it may be that you are working in public and that you are doing a private job, which has been the model for years, but fewer doctors are willing to do this, because of course the burden of work is great. There must also be opportunities to do, for example, basic health care professions, different models of practice in the medical profession, and then no models would be worthwhile.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u38	Mr President! I believe that this has been a valuable debate here in Parliament by your representatives. I also welcome the criticism that I was not prepared to present this bill to Parliament. However, as I said, this is a technical change relating to this larger package of labour income reform. This proposal must now be submitted to Parliament before this labour income reform can then come into force. I am confident that this government proposal will now be submitted to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and I believe that this will be dealt with in depth. If some defects occur there, they can then be transmitted. As I have already said, we will monitor these effects and we will intervene and then correct the mishaps that may be remaining here. But I think this performance is going well here. I would also like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that this government is also concerned about pensioners. And this government is not making any decisions or changes that would weaken a pensioner’s income. On the contrary, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has adopted its report on the budget law, which will increase guarantee pensions by EUR 50 and national pensions by EUR 34. That seems to me to be an extremely good thing and also a small increase in small pensions. There has also been talk of a shortage of doctors in this debate. This government will also work under the leadership of Minister Kiuru to improve the medical shortage as well as to enforce this medical guarantee. These performances are on the move.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u39	Mr President! As I have said before, five years is a long time, and in five years there has been at least such a change in this Chamber that it seems that, as Mr Lindén has said, you can really talk about anything at all. In itself, labour income reform is a necessary reform, as Mr Pekonen described, and today, as a new member of the StV, I was digging into issues that had been criticised in this legislative package. The criticism focused above all on the fact that the formula for the change does not take into account all individual life situations where the income of a person is lower than in the 12-month period and does not correspond to the actual long-term income level of the person, which may seem unfair and may affect, for example, the question of maternity allowance in families with children. In that sense, of course, these inequalities need to be monitored very well, and, for example, if the long-term change is to be carried out by those who, over a 12-month period, have a lower income level than in the latest established taxation, then care must be taken to ensure that people's losses are not such that they affect their livelihoods really, really critically. In some ways, however, I would like us to deal with these issues in such a way that there is no image here that we do not even know for ourselves what we are dealing with. I understand the pain of having a great deal of concern about whether there is enough medical staff in Finland, whether we have enough doctors, and I believe that we will certainly be able to deal with this issue in this Chamber, such as social security, care guarantees and so on, but we were talking about pensions and the issue of earnings, and I hope that in some way we will be able to stay even in such a way that we know for ourselves,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u42	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u43	We will now resume the debate on item 4 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u44	Madam President! You'll find what you're leaving behind for you. This was the first debate here today that took place. In particular, it was pointed out that Minister Aino-Kaisa Pekonen was unfortunately not presenting this government proposal to us and we MEPs would have liked to have heard the background to the government's proposal. In particular, I myself took a stand on issues raised in the preparation of the matter, including the fact that, according to a hearing in the welfare sector, there were factors affecting the shortage of doctors in the government's proposal, and I would have asked what this meant, whether this government proposal would increase or reduce the shortage of doctors. Unfortunately, we did not receive any answers to these questions. There was also criticism of the opposition's questions and it was felt that we might have asked something that was obvious, for example, to the representatives of the government. This was also a theme to which I would like to comment once again that the Members of Parliament should ask questions, especially at the time when the new government proposal comes to the table. After all, the Minister said that this is a proposal from the government of the last period, but I also said in my speeches that when the term of government changes, if any bill fails in the previous period, it will lapse and then the government will be able to bring a new proposal, a modified one, improved one, that is to say, to take account of possible shortcomings. It is a good thing that the debate on this issue is still continuing and, of course, now that this proposal comes to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we will have to deal with it and turn it to the very last page, that we really know what that proposal is about. We need to get more doctors. It's our common will.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u45	Mr President! As far as I am concerned, this debate is now going on in this Chamber but to make an observation on this previous issue. I understood that here in the daytime, when this matter was discussed, the assembly raised the centenary and was taken from one direction and the other. Yes, I also express my great amazement that when this ‘santas’conversation had taken place, there is no such thing as a co-operative seat. Thank you for the fact that even the Finns of Peru are here to support the government in this matter and what we are now doing here. We would have liked to have heard this same statement of support for the assembly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u46	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Kiljunen, for this constructive speech, and I thought it was a positive compliment. I welcome this because it has been a long evening and we have spoken a lot. Indeed, it is worth being here until the evening in Parliament in order to talk deeply about these matters. It was precisely because of the fact that it was there in the protest of our Finns on raising small pensions, which was discussed here in the previous issue. So the True Finns wrote to the protest in the vernacular, in plain language “Vappusatanen”, so that we know where we are discussing. Thank you for this attention, Mr Kiljunen. To return to the issue of medical shortages: It is very important that when a care guarantee is being made, citizens know what it will bring. If it brings more doctors, it's a great thing. The public needs to see a doctor. I would rather go directly to the doctor than to another multiprofessional team, nurse or other, because there are, for example, mental problems where help should be provided immediately. The chance to get to a doctor must come from a pharmacy shelf, and if you can get to a doctor within a week it is a great thing and a desirable thing. But we are very concerned that it is now project funding, which will start reforming social welfare and health care centres. The project money is not enough for the whole of Finland, and now the application is underway. We are concerned that it is really the case that when you apply for treatment at a health centre and try to get it under the care guarantee, then you will be directed to the nurse and not to the doctor. It would be good to know what is the multiprofessional team that will then work there in the future. With this in mind, it was my question that what will be the impact of this proposal? The Minister said that only technical changes were involved. Now we see it then in the committee. Of course, there is that concern and we hope that the opportunities for doctors to work as a professional and then as additional workers will not be weakened by this performance, but that it will actually increase doctors and do not do any red tape traps, because no one wants to fall into such traps, especially those who care for another person.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u47	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u48	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! This is therefore a government proposal to the Parliament for a law on the amendment of the Rescue Act and some other laws. The proposal is part of the legislative changes that will be made in order to replace the Administrative Law at the beginning of next year by a law on judicial proceedings in administrative matters. The provisions on appeal of the Rescue Act, the Rescue College Act and the Fire Protection Fund Act would be amended to reflect the changes made to the general legislation. The proposal also proposes certain other amendments to the legislation. The prohibition on appeal against the Supreme Administrative Court in certain cases imposed on the students of the Emergency Response College would be lifted. In the future, an administrative court decision in a case such as the admission of a student or the loss of a student's right to study should be subject to appeal as provided for in the law on judicial proceedings in administrative matters. The change would improve the legal security of the student and would put those studying for the basic vocational qualification at the Emergency Services Institute on an equal footing with polytechnic students studying for emergency services officers. In addition, the references in the Rescue Act to the annulled Personal Data Act and to the term ‘sensitive information’ would be changed to respond to changes in data protection legislation and the reference to the Personal Data Act in the Emergency Central Act would berepealed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u49	Mr President! It is good that the Minister came here at the last minute to present this legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u52	Mr President! I'd also be a representative. Like Mr Eestilä, he wanted to highlight the responsibility of this country for training, which is in this rather technical government proposal. My concern is the same, i.e. in connection with the move to the Crisis Management Centre, a clear promise was made during the previous government that we would focus on emergency training at Kuopio Rescue College, and the facilities of the Helsinki Rescue School were even considered old-fashioned and inappropriate in the future for organising education. Now, however, the Ministry of the Interior has stated that education will continue in Helsinki. It could be said that in this way the compensation that was expected in that direction towards Eastern Finland is being watered down by this government, which is also reflected in the appropriations that were expected for this training to take place in that part of Kuopio but which will not be received to the same extent. In that sense, it does seem a shame. It has also been expected that the Minister would be able to visit the Kuopio Rescue College. I don't know if the minister's been there yet. Let's hope it is, because I have to say that when I had the opportunity to visit that area in the past, it did make a tremendous impression that there is a training area in Finland where such real crisis situations can actually be practiced. There are no similar areas in Finland anywhere else. Of course, a few questions have also arisen that, when the minister is also appointed to the City Council of Helsinki and this Helsinki Rescue School is under the authority of the City of Helsinki, the Minister will then be appointed to decide on this matter in what role and whether he has felt that there would be some kind of conflict between these roles, when it is a matter of safeguarding the education of his own city. In that sense, of course, it is always hoped that these matters can be viewed from the national perspective, because this future of Kuopio Emergency College is so important for this whole education in the field of rescue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u53	Mr President! Now I have to say that many times I am on very different lines with the Minister of Interior, Ohio, but in this question of Rescue College and Helsinki Rescue School, Ohio has made an extremely sensible decision in continuing this Helsinki Rescue School, and should in fact continue to do so. In recent weeks I have met people in the rescue and emergency services sector, and they have hoped very much that this training will be maintained here in the capital region, because in fact Kuopio is not able to produce enough firemen here in the capital region. Secondly, there is a shortage of staff from the Emergency Response Centre Agency, and that too could be one solution to bring that training to the south, as it was done some years ago. This improvement in the legal protection of students is in itself a good thing, but I would have asked about this bill the extent to which this relates to the rest of the courts and appeals. At the same time in this plenary we have a legislative reform of child protection, which would bring this under the right of appeal, i.e. perhaps undermine the legal protection of child protection, so how does the government now view this whole, so that they go in line, so that when something is improved, there is no weakening and so on, because it is now known that our appeal courts are completely overworked?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u54	Mr President! Let us continue this debate. It is interesting that we are here now representatives of the City of Helsinki, Kuopio City Councillors or representatives of the Finnish people. In my opinion, this is a little strange: let this training be transferred to Inari, but if it has already been drawn up once and it has been in the Ministry of the Interior's press release last spring that there will be a clear trade, something will be exported from the region and something will be given to the region, it will now be watered down. What credibility is there when we know that the minister is still a City Councillor in Helsinki? We know that as a minister, he is not bound by the freeze of interests. But this gives a very special impression that you're pulling right home. Who have you heard? Have you heard from the City of Helsinki Rescue Department? I'm sure there's a certain kind of message coming from there. And is it for you? It was said in Kuopio that it is not possible to train for Finland's needs, because there has been an enormous amount of infraa sacrificed there and there is equipment on top of the last and all the prerequisites for training provide in the form that it is certainly valid? I would also like to say that it is a curious thing that, when you, the Finns, have once announced that you are a sorate party, you are opposed to the fact that the education in the field of rescue is concentrated in Eastern Finland, Kuopio, but you want it to continue in Helsinki. This is a good message for Eastern Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u55	I'm not going to give you any answers at this point. You might want to ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u56	Mr President! Mr Eestilä certainly described this situation very well, that it is our understanding that it has been a question of a compensation decision going beyond the terms of the government, which was indeed intended specifically to safeguard the future of Eastern Finland and, above all, Kuopio Rescue College, and now the Minister for the Interior has taken an immediate decision this season. True, one must wonder about the position of the True Finns here as well. It is good to know that it is the opinion of you that we would prefer to continue this training in Helsinki in the future, namely your representative, Mr Reijonen, has been highly profiled in the Kuopio region, and he has been specifically interviewed in the press there, his written question has been raised, but this is of course good now, then, in Savo's side, to know that, in fact, the Finns of Finland are preferring to concentrate this training here in Helsinki. In that sense, the position of the party then seems to be that Helsinki is the right place, and it is even hoped that in the future it will be more focused here. Now I would recommend that you go to the Kuopio Rescue College and visit the area and see that it is a unique place under Finnish conditions to train rescue personnel, and it is a place where these disaster training areas will be viewed all over Europe. There are no such areas elsewhere. I therefore hope that we will understand in this Chamber, as Mr Eestilä said there, that we are now looking at the interests of Finland as a whole and at where the staff in this sector can receive the best possible training.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u57	Mr President! The training of emergency services and rescuers is an important issue. It is an important issue for the country as a whole, and it plays an important role in providing adequate staff for the needs of the country as a whole. Personally, I am pleased that there is now a policy to continue the training of rescuers in Helsinki, because it also involves nearby care. They've had the opportunity to train local nurses along with them. As we know, the number of older people is constantly increasing in home care, and it is therefore good that the rescuers also have local nursing training and are able to respond to the many tasks that often involve older people. This does not mean that there is still no strong need for Kuopio Rescue College in the future. Both of these are needed. I would therefore like to approach this issue from the point of view of needs. Uusimaa is a big area, and a lot of staff is needed here, and it is therefore important that staff are also trained here. I do not think it makes sense to concentrate this training in any way, but we must have more than one place. It could be Kuopio and Helsinki, both of them. This is also particularly important for family people, for example, who do not leave — for example, difficulties in receiving emergency services are partly due to the fact that families do not go to Kuopio, although that year and a half is of course a relatively short period, but it is a big thing for family people to change the city. Perhaps I would like to take this opportunity to build a good educational network that serves the whole country.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u58	Mr President! To these recent speeches: First of all, this is not the line of the Finns, but the way I see it. It may have a wide range of perspectives, and it is good to note at this point that safety must never be a compensation decision of any kind, which has also been raised here, but is a matter of practice. After all, we are certainly no one in favour of one of them being abolished, and no one disputes the training of the Kuopio training area and the Kuopio Rescue College, but it is a fact that unfortunately those training levels are not enough. They are not enough for Helsinki, they are not enough for Uusimaa. And as Mrs Laiho has just said, this is precisely how it is that it is difficult for people with families, for example, to go to Kuopio to study. Then if they leave, they may not come back, and that is another matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u61	I, as President, try to be flexible and understanding in the fact that things of interest to this kind are being discussed, but so far there has not been a single speech in the debate in which even one sentence would have dealt with this actual bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u62	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the presentation. I would like to ask about this Article 23, which mentions that the Ministry supervises the rescue operations, the availability and the level of its services. How do you see whether this entry is sufficient to control the stability of the service level and the network of stations when last season's rescue reform did not go through — i.e. to safeguard the current service level and the stability of the network of stations. Do you think this entry is sufficient? For the information of representative Essayah, the West Coast rescue training area also provides services similar to those provided by Kuopio, including at European level, so should the entry in section 55, where the Ministry can also accept another educational institution maintained by the public authorities,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u63	Mr President! I am trying to figure out how to link it to this government proposal, but I have to say here, referring to Mr Rantanen's speech just now, that it is no more difficult to go north than from north to south, and unfortunately that traffic is quite often the other way around. A lot has been said about the importance of its education in our region by the representatives of Savo-Karjala, and that is extremely important. I now look forward to the Minister's reply because I understand that Kuopio will not be disappointed in the future: after this transition period it will be and will remain there in Kuopio, so that this rowing and felting will end. Yes, it must be said that there is not the slightest doubt about the party's line, at least in the Central Party, and that is that we are in favour of regional policy and regionalisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u64	Mr President! This government proposal in practice is almost in that technical changes to the legislation of emergency services and emergency services due to changes in the general legislation are made and put into practice here. Since this debate has expanded with regard to Kuopio, I understand the views and views of the representatives of Eestilä and Essayah that for several years we have been discussing the future of the Kuopio Rescue Centre and the education sector, and I personally hope that it will continue and develop. All in all, I hope that we will also be able to take a wider view of the aspects of regionalisation and the activities of the whole of Finland in different ministries. And I personally hope that the same line will continue at Kuopio Rescue College, precisely so that there will be more activities and more training places, as I understand that next year, for example, there will be more training places. We hope that the Minister will also take a position on this issue in this debate, because it has been raised. Then, all in all, I hope that we in the whole country will develop the broadband network as well as other telecommunications and transport connections, just because it will be possible to make better use of the whole country in the various ministries' fields of activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u65	Mr President! First of all, the Centre is in favour of the proposal. So it is a good thing that students enrolled in the Police College of Applied Sciences are placed on the same line in terms of legal security. That's what this is all about. Civil protection officer training is administratively available at the Police College of Applied Sciences, even though it is provided at the Kuopio Rescue College. I, too, am concerned about this much-speaked situation in Kuopio, and I think that this issue should be looked very strongly at from the perspective of regional policy. You can't ignore it here. Here, too, is a statement on what Mr Rantanen said. It is good that the promises made to Kuopio for increasing the number of students will continue next year. However, the question arises as to how permanent the decision is for Kuopio – especially if firefighters are trained in both Kuopio and Helsinki. So I will continue with the question and repeat the question that has come here before. I would ask the Minister kindly — thank you for being here: what is the future of education in Kuopio?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u66	Mr President! Mr Eestilä and Mr Eestilä Of course, Essayah has a strong party political interest in speaking about the Finns. I would remind you, however, that this is a government proposal, not a proposal from the Finns of Peru. As Mrs Rantanen rightly said, she expresses her position as a Member of Parliament in Helsinki, that is to say, as a representative of the people of Helsinki, and in exactly the same way Mr Reijonen speaks as a Member of Parliament in the form of a member of the Council. We have a constituency division in Finland precisely to ensure that regional interests are also taken into account and heard in decision-making and political debate. Unfortunately, it is often the case that regional interests conflict with one another, and in a certain way it is often a zero-sum game. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u67	Mr President! I would say to Mrs Halla-aho that, in addition to being here as representatives of our own constituents, we are also representatives of the whole of Finland, and we must look at the whole and not just at where we are from. Firstly, I would like to say about this proposal in the same way that the representative has already said. Kivisaari pointed out that this is really a question of placing students who are enrolled in the Police College of Applied Sciences in the same position for legal protection, and then separately about the administrative presence of emergency officers at the Police College of Applied Sciences, even though it is provided in Kuopio. But then on to this question of Salvation Academy itself. My ear was particularly broken by two sentences from here. First of all, the fact that Kuopio is not adequately trained. It will be able to do so when there are plenty of training places and there are plenty of resources. And the second question was whether a family member can go to school. We know that every family member has to think when applying for a place of education, how this is going — that this is not just a question for the Rescue College now. And it is just as short a trip from Helsinki to Kuopio as it is from Kuopio to Helsinki. Then perhaps I would say, as far as Kuopio is concerned: In fact, for decades, Kuopio has been subject to a highly wooing policy, including in the field of education. In time, dental education was discontinued from the University of Kuopio, the current University of Eastern Finland, and now it was brought back there. We all know Fimea's thing, how it was balled and bounced in many directions. From the point of view of such political credibility, it is very important that the decisions that are taken stand up to what is being done so that they do not immediately change. That is why there has also been a debate here with Minister Ohio on this matter, that what this future is. I personally trust that Minister Ohio believes that the education on the rescue side will be concentrated there in Kuopio and that this will be a temporary solution to what has now been done for a few years. Then on education at all: we all know that it is always of enormous importance to the regions, but if we look at the security sector, then the police have also been brought together. It is not a very long time since the Police College worked here in Otaniemi and the Police College worked there in Tampere. Now they have been assembled there in Tampere, and in my opinion it works very well.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u68	Since the reserved half hour is about to begin to pass, Minister Ohio.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u69	Your Honor! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Thank you for these important comments and questions. First of all, of course, the starting point is that this government is a new government that looks a little different from the previous governments, and that is why, as a whole, when we are discussing emergency training, we are undergoing a whole reform of the education package in the field of rescue and a reflection on what the educational prospects for the whole sector look like, not just the future of Kuopio Rescue College, but in general how we can get enough rescue professionals all over Finland. By the end of 22, this reform will be presented to Parliament, and I hope to have a constructive debate with all of you on the needs we have in various parts of the country before that. After all, the Ministry of the Interior is constantly developing the Emergency College. In Kuopio, as a national centre of expertise, it ensures its ability to produce high-quality education in the field of rescue. So it is a question of Kuopio having a strong right to a degree at the moment. The reason why such a fixed-term decision has been taken in the case of Helsinki is because it is already difficult to get rescue professionals to work. Now I want everyone's attention: The question was whether this resource was now out of Kuopio. No, there are more than 20 new people who are trained each year from now on at the Emergency College in Kuopio and Helsinki. In fact, for a few years we will be able to compensate for the deficit we have had in the whole sector. This is essential for long enough to bring the reform of the education package together to the end. So let's secure the momentary emergency we're in right now. When the question was whether I was going to Kuopio, yes, to my old study, debate city I am going. The visit has been scheduled for a long time, but of course the calendar is quite full every day. With regard to the question of whether it is enough: Paragraph 23 was asked here. This point is essentially a technical change. The Ministry of the Interior has only been upgraded to the Ministry of the Interior to reflect the current state of affairs. One section, of course, will never, on its own, secure anything. There is a great need for cooperation between the authorities in many areas. Here, too, we must take into account the fact that cooperation is being carried out in every direction and ensure that information also flows as well as possible between the various authorities. I will go back to the emergency school to the point where, as I said, it is really a matter of developing it as such a national centre of expertise, of considering training needs widely, and the government here will work together to ensure that the Ministry of Finance will also provide us with the resources to ensure that the activities of the emergency school continue to be secured as well as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u70	Mr President! There are still a few points that I would like to comment on when reference was made to this in the previous speeches. Just as Minister Ohio said, so there is a shortage here in the capital region. In fact, it may not matter very much whether this school in Helsinki reads “Saves College”,but it has been the case that this staff is available. And I referred to the number of trainings because there is no capacity to take quite a large number of students, otherwise it should be extended, because, as has been said, space is not just needed to put heads there. But I think it is essential here — and it is great to hear — that this kind of overall educational reform is going on. It will probably take account of the problems and needs of the South in a way, and in that sense it is good to expect it. You can make that compromise and push some of it to Tampere if it feels better.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u71	Mr President! Representative Halla-aho here suspected that there was a particular reason to attack the Finns of Peru, but in the same way I listened to the differences of opinion between the representatives of the Coalition Party — how a people living in another constituency feel that they should continue to invest in Helsinki, and another, coming from Eastern Finland, sees this as important for the Kuopio Rescue College. Because there are big differences between the parties. We have parties that, in their ideology, have the idea that it is important to keep Finland as a whole inhabited. In those situations where it is possible to ensure, for example through the regionalisation of state administration, that the whole of Finland remains inhabited, the parties in which this is an ideological objective and their representatives are behind these things, regardless of which constituency they come from. They will then not just look at the matter of their own constituency. This is a good example of the last period: the reform of the district court. Here in the constituency of Uusimaa, Mr Laukkanen, who sits in the Committee on Legal Affairs, fought for spirit and blood precisely to ensure that we had managed to keep this district court network of sparsely populated areas and that we could have kept it there and that the Court of Justice office was not brought to New Zealand, but that it had been either in Joensuu or Rovaniemi, because it was important that these facilities should also be located outside Ring 3. So, in a way, this is the difference between parties that not all parties look at just what is in its own constituency’s interests, but try — as Mr Vehviläinen well said here — to look at the whole, trying to think about what would be important for the whole. And that is why we need to remember that there are differences between parties and that there are parties that see that the settlement of Finland as a whole is an absolute value. Last summer, as I recall, the future of the countryside made the poll, which asked about the whole of Finland being inhabited, and the Christian Democrats were at the top of it. Our members, our supporters, had 100% support for the idea that this should be done. We see it really important that people should be allowed to live where they want to live, and we must also make it possible for politics to do so. And that is why I would simply like to say here, as a clarification in this debate, that the parties have such different ideological differences, and then there is no particular need to attack the different views of the representatives of the individual party or of its party from different constituencies, but to concentrate on that policy line.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u72	In the context of the timetable, I would like to make a final contribution to this part of the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u73	Your Honor! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Let me briefly mention the situation of the Emergency Response Centre Agency, which was ignored, although it is not directly related to the issue, but I would like to point out that the number of personnel of the Emergency Response Centre Agency is being increased from 585 to 620 in the coming years. In addition to this, there is an annual increase in the number of training courses, to which the government has also provided additional funding in its budget. Eli has been identified and detected the challenging situation at the Emergency Response Centre. More staff are needed, and there is also a need to address the lack of well-being of staff, which is recognised in many cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u74	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u75	We will now resume the debate on item 5, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u76	Mr President! This is where we talked about rescue training, and I say about Kuopio and Helsinki that it would be good if this training in the field of rescue were in both places. Then there was the point that the Finns began to complain that we were thinking only of growth centres when we were talking about places of education and schools. It is true that our line, the Finns of Peru, is that there is life outside the Ring Roads. The education sector must be dealt with in such a way that there is education throughout the country, which means that it is an important regional policy issue. There was also the question of whether the representative could be involved in the cause of his own province. In other words, it may be that in the party another representative drives schools to Eastern Finland and the other to Southern Finland and is still in the same party. That is why representatives have been elected all over Finland. It is very natural for a province of its own to be defended and promoted in the interests of its own province, but, of course, the representative of the whole is concerned, and it is intended that the representative of the Parliament should look at the interests of Finland as a whole. But it is not in any way harmful if the representative now also speaks for his own province and drives those things.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u77	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u78	Mr President! Since the beginning of 94 there has been an agreement between Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden on a common Nordic labour market for certain groups of health and medical personnel and veterinary surgeons. The agreement is known as the Arjeplog agreement according to its place of signature. The granting of the right to self-employment for professionals from the Nordic countries to Finland will continue to be carried out as smoothly as possible. The agreement contains provisions on mutual recognition of professional rights and the disclosure of supervisory information between the Nordic countries. The purpose of the agreement is to promote the free movement of professionals between the Nordic countries. Training leading to the professions covered by the contract has been considered to be so uniform that the right to pursue a profession can be granted directly under the contract on the basis of the right of employment granted in another Nordic country. The amendment to the Arjeplog agreement negotiated between the Nordic countries is a treaty signed by all Nordic countries in Stockholm on 11 December 2018. However, in order to be effective, the Finnish Parliament must also take a positive position on this issue. That is why this matter has yet to be referred to Parliament. The main purpose of the amending agreement is now to eliminate duplication and to clarify and align professional recognition practices with the Professional Qualifications Directive. The agreement recognises the primacy of the directive, of course, and the system of recognition of professional qualifications will be brought to the Faroe Islands and Greenland, to which the directive would otherwise not apply. The main aim of the directive is to ensure the free movement of workers, which was the starting point for the Arjeplog agreement in the past. The health professions and the veterinary profession will therefore be subject exclusively to the recognition systems of the Directive. Very many of the professions covered by the contract, such as a doctor, dentist, pharmacist, nurse and midwife, are covered by the automatic recognition of the Directive. In the professions covered by the general system for the recognition of the Directive under the contract, this amendment to the contract changes to some extent the handling of matters relating to legalisation and title protection, as the training of the applicant must be compared to the corresponding Finnish degree. In the event of differences in training, compensatory measures may be imposed on the applicant. However, there is probably no need for them, since the professions covered by the agreement have already been considered to be uniform at the time of the conclusion of the agreement. In the preparation of the amendments to the agreement between the Nordic countries, issues relating to patient safety and the exchange of surveillance information have become important. The Professional Qualifications Directive obliges the competent authorities of the Member States, such as us Valvira, to notify within a short period of time the restrictions on the professional activity of health professionals in the information system maintained by the Commission, i.e. the IMI alert system. In Finland and Denmark, the system was introduced in 2016 and other Nordic countries have become users of the system later. For this reason, and given that the implementation of the IMI alert system was still at an early stage in the preparation of the amending agreement, the provisions on the exchange of information have been included in the amending agreement, particularly in relation to patient safety and the functioning of the exchange of surveillance information. They seek to respond to the concern that EU data protection regulations will certainly be taken into account. The other Nordic countries, according to our information, are — So we have received information from the Swedish Ministry of Foreign Affairs — we have already approved the amendment agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u79	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u80	Mr President! The purpose of the current Child Welfare Act is to strengthen the integrity, rights and special protection of the child. Parents and other guardians have a primary responsibility, of course, for the welfare of children. The municipal social services have an obligation to support the family and the child through support measures for the outpatient care of children. Then, and in all child protection, emphasis will be placed on taking the best interests of the child into account in all measures taken by the authority. The law emphasises the right of the child to participate and special protection. Mr President! As in the present case, after the termination of foster care and after an investment in outpatient care, after a continuous period of at least six months, the child must receive after-care in accordance with the Child Welfare Act. We are faced with this change because Parliament adopted a bill on the increase in the aftercare age contained in the legislative reform of social welfare and health care initiative 86/2018 in the spring. The initiative therefore went through the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. It is therefore proposed that, from 1.1.2020 onwards, the municipality’s obligation to provide aftercare will continue until the young person is now 25 years old, instead of the present 21 years of age. The increase in the age limit for after-care would apply to children and young people entitled to after-care on 1 January 1920. At the same time, this proposal specifies the definition of young people as being between 18 and 24 years of age, and the last payment period for independence funds will now be changed to 25 years of age as a result of this change in order to reflect an increase in the age limit for after-care. The journey to adulthood is quite a long way from the end of post-care, and it is not possible to set a precise age limit in the legislation so that each young person who needed support would have achieved his or her independence. However, independent young people who are excluded from raising the age limit will not be left without support as a result of a legislative amendment. They must continue to receive the guidance and support they need from professionals. The Child Welfare Act will continue to guarantee that the municipality can also provide aftercare for young people and children who do not have a subjective right to post-care or whose right to post-care has been terminated before 1 January 2020 if the support is deemed necessary. The increase in the age limit for after-care has already been taken into account in the central government budget since the beginning of 2020 so that EUR 12 million has been added to the central government transfers of municipalities for the next four years. There are no changes to the content of aftercare at this stage and in this proposal, because the government started very quickly, and the matter was on the table when this change was still being made at the time of the spring, when we will then consider what changes to aftercare, its substantive development, will be made during this term of government. However, the intention is now to ensure that sufficient support is given to young people on the way to adulthood, and this is how this proposal is brought here. Mr President! At the same time, at the beginning of June, we noted that... Due to the fact that Parliament was now in the process of extending this post administration, Parliament had also adopted a new law on judicial proceedings in administrative matters, i.e. the Administrative Process Act, which repeals the existing Administrative Law. With the entry into force of the new Code of Administrative Processes, appeals to the Supreme Administrative Court will become subject to appeal in all cases. We noticed this as part of the start of our work, and we also noticed that the references in the Child Welfare Act to the repealed Administrative Law need to be corrected as references to the new Code of Administrative Processes. In the same context, it was necessary to consider whether it is now the case that, with the decision of the Parliament, it is also stated in social and health care that this is in the best interests of the child — i.e. that, with the entry into force of the Administrative Process Act on 1 January 1920, the appeal against the administrative court decision to the Supreme Administrative Court becomes subject to appeal even in matters governed by the Child Welfare Act. That is what Parliament had decided, and this does not mean, of course, a ban on appeals, but it is subject to authorisation. When we consider the matter, it is clear that the parties will retain the possibility of bringing before the Supreme Administrative Court the decision of the Administrative Court on the prohibition of the custody and custody of the child, the cessation of custody, the restriction of contact, the authorisation of the examination of the child, the protection of subsistence and housing, the right to an aftercare and the prohibition of placement in a private home. All of these are, therefore, still in this court and the possibility of being examined by the Supreme Administrative Court. If there is, therefore, one of the grounds for granting a permit to appeal which I have just read, the Supreme Administrative Court must grant a permit to appeal. The Supreme Administrative Court may grant a permit to appeal not only on the basis of a preliminary ruling but also on the basis of a manifest error or other weighty reason. In this way, measures affecting the most fundamental rights of child protection, such as involuntary custody and foster care, as well as the related decision-making processes and the appeal system as a whole, will ensure access to legal protection, sufficiency and prompt handling of the matter. Children have the right to be heard, to express their opinions and to be involved in their own affairs, including involuntarily custody and foster care. In addition, the parties may always apply for the termination of custody from the municipal social services and, if necessary, also appeal to the administrative court against the decision taken by the municipality. The best interests of the child must be a key criterion for all child protection measures and at every stage of the child protection process. Now, with this proposal, long judicial procedures are becoming more brief if this solution is accepted by Parliament. We have therefore wanted to give the committee an opportunity to consider what is in the best interests of the child. I believe that this will also be the case in Parliament, but the possibility has now been brought to the attention of the committee in the context of this recent extension of after-care. — Thank you for allowing me to speak so long.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u81	It's a good, thorough introduction. With regard to this half-hour limit of discussion: let us make a suitable compromise here, let us now continue the debate until ten o'clock on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u82	Mr President! Thus, during Father’s Day Week, it is appropriate to say that we have many children in our country who miss their lives and their daily lives, and there are also many adults who miss their lives. The breakup and breakup of families is an issue that is not sufficiently discussed in our society. In some ways it has become a taboo, something that is not spoken of for some reason. It's understandable, but it's not good for anyone. It is understandable because things are not black and white and simple, but often they are very difficult and painful. The silence around this subject is understandable, but it is certainly not good for anyone. In the context of child protection, we also have the courage to talk about how we can better support the well-being of families, but also the integrity of families. When asked questions about their concerns, one of the most common concerns has been the separation of the mother and father. A child needs a father, and a child needs a mother, a child needs a family around him. Supporting relationships serves the well-being of our children and families. It is also reflected positively in child welfare. Mr President! This government proposal is part of a package that improves the support for young people, especially those in the area of child protection, just as we heard from the Minister's good proposal. The aim of the proposal is to correct the provisions of the Child Welfare Act to be up-to-date, in line with the amendments already adopted by Parliament. Many good decisions are taken in this country and in this Chamber, even though they do not always get the attention they deserve. This decision last season to raise the age limit for child welfare after-care to 25 years of age is very important and to support and support the well-being of our young people. Today, according to the Child Welfare Act, young people are between 18 and 20 years of age. The proposal now proposes to amend the Child Welfare Act to include young people between the ages of 18 and 24. Mr President! The comprehensive evaluation section of this proposal states that ‘the purpose of the Child Protection Act is to safeguard the rights of the child in a safe and diverse environment and to The proposal also states that‘when a public authority fails to deal with This must continue to be significantly strengthened in our society: the possibility of parents and the capacity of parents to be responsible for the education and care of their children. The ideal situation would be when we did not need child protection at all. We must make every effort to reduce the need for child protection, to ensure that fathers and mothers are well placed, that families are well able, that children are given adequate protection, shelter and care for a balanced life and growth from their parents, their guardians. However, we have not made the right progress on this issue, but the high number of clients in child welfare is a constant concern. According to the National Institute for Health and Welfare, for example last year, 2018, 4390 children were placed urgently, which is 6.9 per cent more than in the previous year. Mr President! It is very important for the centre that we strengthen preventive services for children, young people and families. We are very pleased that the government is now committed to improving these preventive services in many ways. Our hope and vision is that investing in prevention will also be seen in a positive way as a reduction in the need for child protection. I consider, among other things, the following measures decided by the government as preventive measures in the field of child welfare: reducing the poverty of families with children by raising child allowances for single parents and families with multiple children. The Lappe project continues. It brings together the services of children and families under one roof, so that they are better accessible to families. The availability of home services for families with children will be improved. The size of day care groups will be reduced. In this social situation, I feel that it is particularly important and that we should support the integrity of the families I mentioned at the outset more strongly. We should do everything we can to make Father’s Day as well as Mother’s Day a truly happy and happy day for the child. I would therefore like to ask Minister Kiuru in this connection that, if possible, it would be good to hear what action the government is taking to ensure that the strengthening of the relationship work agreed in the Government Programme is carried out. It is very closely related to our subject of child protection. Mr President! Our common task is to support family integrity, parenthood and the well-being of young people. I think it is very important that the valuable development of after-care, as mentioned by the Minister, be brought forward together now. It serves our young people. And it is absolutely wonderful and valuable that we here in Parliament are able to make such decisions to strengthen the well-being of children, young people and families.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u83	Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, Parliament approved the amendment to the Child Welfare Act, which raised the age limit for aftercare to 25 years. The law that will come into force from the beginning of next year has been much needed and expected. Experience from the field has signalled in one direction that the support and assistance of society will end far too soon. Representative Alanko-Kahiluoto's bill collected as many as 115 representatives' names, indicating a common will to remedy the current situation. It is now proposed to amend the Child Welfare Act so that a young person would be aged between 18 and 24 when the age under the current law is between 18 and 20 years. During my visit to the Espoo Child Welfare Unit in August, this too low age limit for aftercare rose to the debate. The staff of the unit were concerned that too many young people of adult age were left without the support of a safe adult. Child welfare units may have been in contact for a few months before the 18 - year - olds, who were barely caught in the regular pace of life, out of substance abuse, in everyday activities such as laundry and cooking when they had to be released because the law did not allow for their controlled and supported guidance. Expensive child welfare savings were wasted when a young person who lacked responsibility for spending money and basic everyday skills fell into the world of debt, intoxication and crime. Although increasing after-care responsibilities brings financial consequences for the state and municipalities, it makes sense to change the law in a humane way and to consider the total cost. The current Government Programme has included: ‘Development of child protection aftercare. Provide sufficient support for young people on the way to adulthood.” But more funding is not earmarked for this separately. In this respect, therefore, we will have to come back to this at a later stage once the impact assessment has been made better. EUR 9 million was set aside to improve the human resources of child welfare, including securing the multi-professional services of children requiring special support and developing a team model. It is important that a sufficient number of people with the right education do child protection work. The excesses and illegal activities in child protection have mostly been caused by incompetence and ignorance. We legislators must also draw up laws that promote work in child protection services. The right of children and young people to self-determination is currently in conflict with practice. When the staff have sufficient rights to restrict and prevent harmful behaviour by the child or others, it improves the well-being of the child or young person, but also the working lives of child welfare professionals. Now that the Minister is here, I would like to ask: is it intended to review the Child Welfare Act in this regard? The central parliamentary group considers it essential that preventive support for families and children be improved. Throughout Finland, child protection expenditure has increased and the nausea of children and families has unfortunately increased. There seems to be a far cry from the day when more can be invested in preventive work than in costly crisis management, which is represented by custody and placement in child protection units. In the centre we are pleased that the Lappe project, which started in the last parliamentary term to improve support for children and families, has also been allowed to continue during this parliamentary term. It is important to develop well-functioning services for children and families and to get them under the same roof so that they are genuinely accessible and effective to their target groups. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u84	Mr President! Preventing the sad fates of children and families should be a priority for decision-making. This is not the case, however, but we keep putting out fires — as is the case here. According to THL statistics, the proportion of minors who have been reported for child protection has increased at a terrible rate. Compared to 2008, growth has been more than 63% at the level of the whole country. A warning example can be found in the base house, where growth has been up to 112%. The whole 21st century has been shocking. The number of people in custody or in urgent positions in Finland has doubled and in Kanta-Häme, which has been mentioned badly, has increased by up to 2.5 times. Correspondingly, in 2018 the number of minors in custody or as a matter of urgency has tripled and in Kanta-Häme it has quadrupled. Care should be taken as a last resort. However, the figures show that child protection fails to support children, young people and families in order to avoid custody. Clearly, the root causes of problems in families with children are not sufficiently addressed. Mr President! Why does child welfare fail? The current legislative amendment refers to a multi-sectoral service package. In practice, the only thing that works well and comprehensively in the process of missing children's or young people's lives is multi-sectoral and professional concern and empathy. All employees want to help children, all are committed to doing the good work, but the outcome is not enough. Sufficient, real, long - term and impressive help is not provided by families or children. The next action, which will work, will then be taken into custody. A key contribution to aftercare is not only housing, but also how the social security system is used. You'll learn that by the age of 21. Aftercare does not really help young people’s lives or child welfare before they are taken into care. The money spent until the age of 25 would be better spent at work before being taken into care. Mr President! Care decisions are large, often long-term processes. According to a study published by THL in 2018, one third of those who were stationed in 16 had been located at least half of their lives. These detentions are rarely dismantled. At 31 December 2014, 92% of children aged 0 to 15 were still in custody two years later. Therefore, decisions that are most lacking in fundamental rights should retain a direct right of appeal from the administrative court to the highest administrative court. The argument that being left to the appeal procedure at the same time would both safeguard legal certainty and speed up the overall length of the appeal process is highly contradictory. The procedures for dealing with cases most in need of legal protection are merely prolonged as a result of the appeal procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u85	I will continue this debate until 4 p.m. and before that, Minister Kiuru will speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u86	Mr President! The Government’s proposal to amend the Child Welfare Act is an important and rare example of how the opposition can be influenced in Finland’s direction. At the end of the last period, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto managed to put the bill through with strong cooperation from the opposition. Thank you to all those involved for their good work on child welfare after-care. The age limit for child welfare after-care is increased from 21 to 25 years of age. By raising the age limit, low-threshold services are intended to ensure that young people in care are better protected from exclusion. In its opinion, the Ombudsman notes that raising the age limit for after-care can have very positive effects on the lives of many young people and that a change in law is therefore to be welcomed. The Ombudsman for Children will make the prevention of social exclusion of young people an important objective of well-designed post-care. Increasing the age limit will help young adults to become independent and increase their life management and well-being. At the same time, however, municipal services for families with children need to be developed to be equal, effective and to meet the real needs of families. Help in time and appreciate all kinds of families in Finland. Mr President! The Government suggests that in the future, a decision of the Administrative Court relating to child protection can only be appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court through the appeal procedure. According to the opinion of the Ombudsman for Children, the introduction of a complaint authorisation procedure is justified but it is particularly important that the threshold for granting a complaint does not become too high. The child's legal protection must not be jeopardised as a result. Similarly, the involvement of children, young people and their families and the right to be genuinely heard in child protection processes must be better safeguarded in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u87	Mr President! I thank the government for a good and necessary proposal. Child welfare is one of the central tasks of public administration, and it is certainly important for everyone in this Chamber to develop it. Aftercare provided to young people who have experienced care is a very valuable service in which the resources of society are actually used. It can help prevent exclusion. In addition, it can have a major impact on the national economy in the long term. However, most importantly, aftercare can at best facilitate the path of an independent young person towards balanced and happy adulthood from challenging points of view. It is great that the upper age limit for providing after-care services was raised to 25 years by means of a legislative amendment earlier this year. The Government's proposal clarifies the legislation on child protection in this respect, which makes sense. Of course, there is still room for improvement in after-care. In regional terms, there are large differences in services. After-care customers also have very different and unfortunately also unequal experience in the level of services. Not everyone has even been aware of their right to post-care services, and that is what we need change. In January of this year, the previous government set up a working group to investigate the need for reform of post-care. According to the report, post-care should be reformed to target and tailor-made support young people in their adulthood and independence. In addition, there is a need for comprehensive and coordinated cooperation between administrative sectors to ensure that services are not separate from each other. I hope that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, will make a strong contribution to these reform needs. I would like to draw attention to the provisions relating to the entry into force of the new law on this proposal. According to the proposal, the right to post-care applies to children and young people who, for their age, are covered by the law in 2020. The law therefore does not apply ex post to young people whose right of after-care expires before its entry into force. The Finnish Federation of Child Welfare is concerned that the proposal has not assessed the impact of the amendment on young people who are excluded from aftercare. In order to guarantee equal status, care must be taken to ensure that these young people receive the services they need from adult services. Services supporting independence are therefore also needed by young people who are excluded from the scope of the law. That is something that you, the honourable Government, must take into account. I warmly support the Government's objective of speeding up and shortening judicial processes in the area of child protection. Long court proceedings are very harmful to children taken into care and serve no one else’s interests. It is very important that the life of the child taken into care should be established as soon as possible without distractions and uncertainty. However, the process must take care of children's rights and adequate involvement. In addition to the changes proposed by the government, we also need broader measures to promote better protection and welfare for children and young people. I hope that you, the Government, will be prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u88	Mr President! One of the elements of the Child Welfare Act adopted during the last government term was this increase in the obligation to provide aftercare to 25 years instead of the present 21 years. And now this law is on the table. After all, after-care means comprehensive support for a child or young person after the end of foster care or long outdoor care. The purpose of post-care is to support the child’s return from foster care or to help an adult youth to achieve sufficient capacity to start an independent life. As we know, many young people aged 18 and still 21 still need a lot of parental support, and the young people who have been placed in an even more vulnerable position. It is therefore very important that this joint phase should be continued and supported. Mr Sjöblom raised the issue of young people who are not covered, and this is indeed something that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health needs to look at separately and where experts need to be consulted so that the law can be extended to all young people who now need that post-care care. I would like to highlight the importance of prevention in relation to our growing numbers of child protection. A growing number of child welfare care providers have parents’ substance abuse problems or mental health problems, which is why the smooth access of parents to mental health and substance abuse services is of paramount importance and could avoid many urgent investments while avoiding a lot of social costs and, above all, human suffering for the family and the child. Similarly, access to children's and young people's mental health services on a low threshold and, for example, access to substance abuse care on a fast-track basis is of paramount importance when considering how we can prevent the custody of children and young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u89	Mr Kivisaari and then Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u90	Mr President! The Centre Party was in the process of approving the change in the age limit of after-care with the rest of Parliament during the last period to 25 years. The logical consequence of this is, of course, that it is proposed to amend the Child Welfare Act to mean a young person between the ages of 18 and 24. These amendments are of a very technical nature and harmonise the implementation of the legislative amendments already adopted by Parliament. This change can mean, in particular, an increase in costs for municipalities in the early stages. I understand that there is no precise estimate of the additional costs during the last parliamentary term, since the change in the age limit was made in Parliament on the basis of a legislative initiative, and therefore no impact assessment was carried out. However, this should both be clarified and taken into account for municipalities. I would like to ask the Minister: how do the municipalities have the capacity to respond to a possible increase in cost levels? At this point, the situation in child protection and the well-being of children, young people and families has also been raised in general. The central view is that preventive support for children and families needs to be improved. Among other things, the Lappe project, which was launched during the last parliamentary term and which will continue during this parliamentary term, will help to develop the services of children and the family and gather them under one roof, so that they are better accessible to families. This means concrete and important preventive measures in relation to the protection of children, young people and families, in particular. By far the most effective way is to maintain the quality and quality of the Finnish education and training system. Every child and young person is encountered in schools, and the role of teachers, in particular, together with their homes, is extremely crucial. Schools also need multi-professional support where the exchange of information, multi-professional activities are sufficient and straightforward. Mr President! I take delight in the fact that the government is investing in these very activities. The primary responsibility for raising a child is, as Minister Kiuru rightly said, always with parents. Unfortunately, it is not always possible. In such cases, society must ensure that adequate and long-term assistance extends far enough. That is also the essence of this presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u91	Mr President! First of all, it is a pleasure to hear this debate because we read very well here in Parliament time, and it was great to say at the outset that in the last Committee on Social Affairs and Health the parties found each other cross-border, and that is why a single parliamentary initiative came to the conclusion that support was found in other parties for taking up the matter and that both the government and the opposition supported that initiative at the time. It tells us that there is a strong will in the area of child protection in Parliament, and it is now reflected in the fact that the new government then brought this Parliament’s proposal, which therefore requires a contribution of EUR 12 million, to this Parliament’s deliberations, and this is also reserved for next year’s budget proposal and beyond. As I said, during the last term of the government, the Child Welfare Act was amended and those reforms entered into force at the beginning of the year, but we still have an important issue to pay, as it were. This is what Mr Mattila spoke about when he raised the issue of the continuation of self-determination. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has been working for a long time to bring about this self-determination for some groups, and especially for children's protection customers have been in a situation where the modernisation of self-determination is lagging behind. In the committee we were struggling with this issue, and it must be said before Parliament that unfortunately a good attempt, which was already in the case of Minister Saarikko, then came to the conclusion in committee that, following the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we were faced with a situation in which we could not correct the existing basis with such a timetable that it would have fulfilled the terms of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which left us without a decision on the points of improvement relating to self-determination. It is simply a matter of children’s protection having the right to a normal life. And what that normal everyday life covers, it was not yet specified in Parliament, and in this respect we have a debt of honour, I admit it, but in the same breath it must be said that defining this is not a very easy task. However, as has been said here: we will have to return to child protection many more times during the parliamentary term, and I will continue to reflect on this issue, and we will also try to prepare — for you, Mr Mattila — for this in the future to be paid for this debt of honour, but I will say that this is not an easy task. Then, other questions came: Congressman Aittakumpu asked about the relationship work. By the way, today's relationships have started, I was there to talk in the morning, and I also promised there that this will certainly come up in the debate and that we will be doing, inspired by the Government Programme, to work on how to make Finnish relationships better. Many people think why Parliament should worry about it, but I have to say that in so many respects we Finns would be much better off if relationships were good, and so it is a pleasure to say that the Government Programme recognises the importance of matters, especially here on the social and health side. I am not going to go any further than that, but we are also thinking about this. There were questions about the development of after-care, and it has to be said that there is no way in this proposal that there can be any further development of after-care, because this came as a load on the table in the summer and, in this time, we managed to make a government proposal that lasted for two months during the consultation, so you understand the pains there. Such things must then be prepared in close cooperation with the field: what is it to develop aftercare when it stretches from 21 to 25 years of age? In fact, on Monday, when I visited Pori's social services, I came across the same thing, and after discussing this with the workers of child welfare clients in particular, I said that it was the same thing that followed. Kivisaari reminded us of the impact assessment: it is true, but it is good to say that in this proposal, with the timetable we had, we did our best, and yes, there are impact assessments, but it is precisely the question of what we mean by that content when we go to 25 after 21 years. Let us now have this dialogue in good cooperation with the field and carefully prepare what will actually be done with this money, this 12 million. But I'll catch it. Mr Sjöblom also raised the issue of what will then be done to these young people who, when they are 21 years old, will not be able to benefit from the increase in aftercare. I have just said that they will not be left without aid. It is clear already because the social worker must direct them, already under current legislation, to use other public services, support measures and benefit systems in the municipality, if necessary, so this cannot be refused on the ground. On the other hand, the Child Welfare Act also makes it possible for the municipality to provide separate aftercare, even now, for those young people and children who need this even if their age is reached, and in this respect they will not be left behind — but it is important for us to ensure that this is the case. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say to the end that I thank Parliament that you have quite rightly understood the more difficult part of this draft law, which is in practice linked to these changes in the procedure for the authorisation of appeal. However, it is a pleasure to hear the debate that Parliament appreciated this government initiative that you are still having this debate here. In the course of the consultation, 23 contributors, i.e. 23, as a result of two months of work, stated that this proposal, which is now based on the Parliament’s basic solution, was nevertheless supported. Three of these parties felt that this should not have happened. That is why the committee must be the last one to decide how we want to do this. In that respect, I would like to say to you that you must do your best and find out exactly what is going on.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u92	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this same session after the other items of the order of business have been examined.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u93	We will now resume the debate on item 8 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u94	Mr President! The extension of post-care until the young person entitled to post-care reaches the age of 25, which is what this bill is talking about, is very well founded. After-care is intended to help a young adult to achieve sufficient capacity for independent living. As secondary care, young people receive support in areas such as housing, education, social and mental capacity, health care and livelihood. Starting an independent life is a demanding process for all young people, but it can be particularly demanding for young people who have invested in child protection, and it is therefore justified to support these young people for longer, so that their own wings will certainly carry them in an independent life. After-care also needs to be further developed in terms of content, and this has also been committed to in the Government Programme, but of course this development issue did not fit or reach this bill. President! This is a very important change of law, but I cannot help saying that we have to look at the basics here too. Why are child welfare clients constantly increasing? Why do we not invest in promoting and preventing the health and well-being of children, young people and families with children? These measures would enable us to prevent many human suffering stories and save society's money. Investing in children and young people is the best future investment we can ever make, and fortunately, this government has made a change of course for the better, and it was about time. Finally, Mr President, this autumn the Audit Committee took note of the situation regarding child protection, and we will then continue to deal with this issue at some point. On the basis of a preliminary examination, we came to the conclusion that the content and practices of child protection also need to be reconsidered. There seems to be still a need for clarification in legislation, for example when a young person may be restricted in a child protection unit. We visited the site, and we were told from the workers that they could only intervene restrictively when something bad had already happened. Prophylactic intervention or this kind of restriction is not permitted, as we were told. It was said that they are not sure whether a new law is needed, but in particular the content of the law should be clarified, it is unclear. At the visit we also met a young person who lived in the child welfare unit there, and when we asked him, a young person, himself, about this matter, he told us that in his case preventive restraint saved him and his future. Without these restrictive measures, he would not have made it into the future in the context of his life when he entered that child welfare unit at an acute stage. In particular, the workers want to clarify the legislation, because they felt that the lack of clarity in the legislation makes it more difficult to help young people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u95	Mr President! There has been a very good debate on this issue here today, and I still want to take part in it, because it is so important. It is a very good thing that after-care measures for children are now also being taken by young people who are growing up because, according to studies, many of the children placed outside the home are at risk of exclusion, and we need to find ways to prevent this exclusion. These fostered young people need special support so that they can get this kind of independent good life started. They have no other relatives who can like this normal support for them to offer, so then society must make this support provide. These support measures may include, for example, personal guidance and counselling for young people to cope with everyday life or support for studies and employment. Of course, this reform will certainly also bring costs. According to the opinion of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, this could result in costs of up to EUR 50 million, and it is important that in the future these will definitely be reimbursed to the municipalities. It should be borne in mind that in the long term, however, these measures will be advantageous, because it is quite certain that other expenditure will be saved if we are able to prevent the problems and challenges that arise later in the lives of these young people. There was a good discussion here earlier about the need for further development of aftercare in many ways as well, and it remains to be seen in the future what are the proposals of this kind's working group on measures to which measures might be good to introduce. Concern was also raised about these interlocutors, who, by virtue of this law, are not subject to post-care because this is not retrospectively valid for them. It is important to constantly remind them that municipalities also have the possibility to continue to direct them to such measures, despite the fact that there is no legal obligation to do so. I am sure that the elected representatives and others in the municipalities will see to it that this is indeed the case. It has been very good that we raise this kind of burning question because it is the responsibility of society that we would not have young people who, regardless of their own measures, have come into such a situation that because of their family background or other circumstances they have been taken into care and then there will be challenges. Now we are taking up this challenge.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u96	Madam President! During the day we heard the Minister's extensive and thorough presentation, thanks to him for that, and we have also had a lively debate on this matter. The background is this amendment of the law at the initiative of the last parliamentary term, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, which is well founded. The development of aftercare in child welfare serves our young people. It will prevent exclusion. It's always our job to keep everyone involved. A change in the law will facilitate a young person’s journey towards adulthood and responsibility from challenging circumstances. Of course, as we heard, child welfare should be viewed as a whole. In the Committee on Education, too, we heard from experts that, at the very least, restrictions on young people have been misunderstood at some locations. There is a need to clarify the interpretation of the law and at least to go through it and train it in order not to go too far into the solutions that have been taken. Representative Mäkisalo-Ropponen also raised the issue of support for families. During the day there was talk of supporting the relationship between mates, supporting the integrity of families, and supporting parenthood. They are all important issues, because we need to be able to help children and young people in time. The well-being of children, the well-being of young people and the well-being of families are important to us and belong together. We must improve preventive support. Families need a very concrete home help, and we need the old - fashioned housekeepers back. Children’s and families’ services should be assembled under one roof in family centers, or by what name they want to be called, on the same window where experts from different fields cooperate and services and support are conveniently available to families. Both preventive support, replacement and remedial support and aftercare should therefore be placed under the same roof. This will allow us to support children and families at the right time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u97	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u98	Mr President! The changes proposed in the Government proposal will continue the development of administrative law, the same development that has already been taken forward during the last parliamentary term. In other words, the appeal against the administrative decision directly to the Supreme Administrative Court without the right to appeal would in future be limited to matters for which there would be specific grounds for a different procedure. As a result of the proposed amendments to the law, some new categories of cases would be covered, such as recovery and sanctioning decisions under the Housing Aid Act and certain decisions under the Nature Conservation Act and the Waste Act. Similarly, this Government proposal proposes to amend the Land Transport Act so that the municipality will be able to charge a fee in the future in respect of licensing of competitions and exercises. I personally hope that, if, and when this government proposal — which I think is quite reasonable and forward-looking — is implemented, the charges which the municipalities might inherit will be very moderate, so that no leisure activities and competitions will be restricted in the future, so that the municipalities will stick to this reasonableness. All in all, these effects that this government proposal will have: in practice, there will be no economic impact, at least not according to the views of the experts. Similarly, environmental impacts are estimated to be very minimal. In my view, it is important to have a social impact that the clarification and harmonisation of legislation will contribute to making the parties involved in administrative proceedings more aware of their rights and obligations in the future. I think it is important that we know when and when we can complain, and that rights are also known. In practice, this government proposal contains only technical changes. But I hope that the committee will then examine the matter and look at it more closely.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u99	Mr President! When it came to this authorisation system and, of course, to this government proposal that Mrs Torniainen spoke, it came to mind that, of course, when you start to assume that the Supreme Administrative Court will become a so-called court of precedent or such a remedy for gross errors — it may as such be a good way to be chosen — it is good to note that this is now putting a great deal of pressure on the lower levels, that there will be a good deal to deal with. If we look at the municipality, or if we look at administrative rights, which also have a lot of congestion, it should be of very high quality, because the threshold for getting ahead now is rising. In the past, the matter has been brought to the grievances dance, although it has its side and its side: some say that there is too much opportunity to complain, so that certain things stand, and others believe that it would be good for people who still know how to judge each other. Representative Torniainen also spoke about municipalities to take account of different events and activities in planning. For example, I myself get contacts from various entrepreneurs, such as motorsporters, and they feel that today, in fact, there is no place to keep such lines and engage in activities. Such a balance and expertise should also be found, especially on the court side, which will be complained of when the matter has not gone the way either party wants it to. Of course, I always wonder whether there is enough knowledge and understanding there, and especially then, of course, if the possibilities for appeal are restricted. One thing that should be better, of course, is that the courts should be more easily able to carry out an on-the-spot inspection, particularly in the field of design and licensing. Now it is quite discretionary, and what you have been familiar with, so many times you will notice that if we had gone there, because not all terrain conditions and noise measurements are always clear from the papers. Here is one thing that I would like Parliament, and the government in particular, to catch, that how can this be resolved so that things can be sorted out in the right way. Would that be the case, then, for a review to be carried out at the request of the parties? However, that review is there on the ground, for example, in the case of permits, i.e. if we think that we decide without seeing it — often it is said that we should hear a person personally — then it is there on the ground, and then the court examines the matter only by means of papers. In other words, this is a clearly developed area, and this is linked to the fact that this will put more pressure on knowledge now to the lower levels.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u100	Mr President! The representative, Meri, raised the issue of speeding up proceedings and dealings with very low-level legal bodies, and also the existence of its level of knowledge and skills and resources. Personally, I agree that at a lower level of justice too, resources must be sufficient, and there too, we must be able to deal with matters at a rapid pace. In practice, this government proposal is precisely about speeding up the process of dealing with matters. For far too long we currently have different legal levels of processing time. It is a good thing that this issue is now being taken forward. Attention is also drawn: this government proposal to extend the scope of the appeal procedure will enable the Supreme Administrative Court to become more and more a preliminary court. It is also a good thing, in my view, that different legal levels are able to focus more and better on the right issues in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u101	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u102	Mr President! This government proposal to amend the feed law is a question of national implementation of the EU Control Regulation. In practice, these are technical amendments to the law, but they concern a very important and very topical issue, because healthy, safe and environmentally friendly food production is extremely important for all of us. By developing feed legislation, we ensure feed safety for animals and thus also the quality of animal food for us Finns. The Finnish way of producing food is one of the international leaders in terms of climate, environmental conditions and animal welfare. Finnish food production is the highest quality in the world as measured by many indicators. Food of animal origin is a strong part of Finnish food culture today and also in the future. For example, Finns will eat meat and drink milk in the future. By improving animal welfare, we can strengthen the confidence of Finns in our food production, and that is also what this change in feed legislation has to do with. Meat-eating and milk-driving will certainly not stop, and they will not have to end, but instead we must strongly continue to develop our agriculture in such a way that we guarantee farmers the conditions for sustainable work, including through legislation. Finnish animal production is the best in the world, and it is important that we together give it appreciation, even in such a way that everyone in our everyday life, for example, can support Finnish good, high-quality food production by promoting and buying Finnish food and drink.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u103	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 3/2019 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — Mr Purra, Chairman of the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u104	Mr President! In February 2019, the Parliament adopted legislation enabling the integration of the tasks of the steering and development unit of the current Population Register Centre, Local Register Offices and Local Register Offices in the Regional State Administrative Agency of Eastern Finland into the Digital and Population Information Office to be established as a new entity. The changes will enter into force at the beginning of 2020, when the new agency will also start operating. The present Government proposal proposes to carry out technical amendments to the laws governing the tasks of the merging authorities, the division of powers between agencies, or otherwise referring to these operators, resulting mainly from the said organisational reform. It is also proposed to remove unnecessary regional jurisdictional provisions, as the Digi and Population Information Office is a national area of activity. The office of the Digital and Population Information Office also covers the province of Åland, where the duties assigned to the Local Register Offices, such as the duties of the guardian authority, marriages and the functions of a public notary, are carried out by the State Office of Åland. The role and competence of the Government Office of Åland will remain unchanged in the context of the change. The Government's proposal includes an amendment to the Sámi Language Act to extend the scope of the Language Act to the entire National Digi and Population Information Office. The change improves the linguistic rights of the Sami people. The Committee considers it important that sufficient resources are earmarked for this change. The proposed legislation will focus on the regulation of the register of persons maintained by Local Register Offices, Population Register Centre and the Government of Åland, with the exception of the Population Information System, on a new law on certain register of persons maintained by the Digi and Population Information Office. These authorities currently maintain a total of six statutory registers, which are governed by different laws. The committee believes that the proposed combination of regulation is justified by increasing the consistency of data processing and clarifying regulation. The amendments also update the regulation of personal registers in line with the new data protection legislation. Local Register Offices currently have 36 offices or work stations in different parts of Finland and the Population Register Centre. On the basis of the report received by the committee, the change has no direct impact on the number and location of existing offices in the combined operations. The localities where the Agency operates are excluded from the site network provided for by the Government Decree and are to be included in the Agency’s Office’s Rules of Procedure. The Administrative Committee has pointed out that, despite increasing e-services, some of the Agency's tasks and services require visitation due to their nature. Services requiring such personal services include, for example, civil marriages, public notarial certification services, the registration of foreigners and trade confirmations. Moreover, not everyone has access to information technology or the ability to use it. The Committee stresses that the availability of agencies' services must be ensured so that the services requiring visitation are within reasonable travel time. It is therefore important that the site network of the new agency is also sufficiently comprehensive. The Administrative Committee considers it necessary that the services of the Digi and Population Information Office are fully available throughout Finland. In order to ensure the availability of services, the committee proposes a statement for approval by Parliament: ‘The government requiresthe government to ensure the availability of quality services of the Digital and Population Information Office throughoutthe country, taking into account the needs for visits, The committee stresses the need for careful consideration and, if necessary, changes to the legislation of the Digital and Population Information Office so that it does not unnecessarily hinder the development of the Agency's activities and services by means of digitalisation. However, the committee notes that such changes are justified by the good way in which the legislation is drafted. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Ministry of Finance is currently assessing how the new agency will make use of the reputation of the Local Register Office as a traditional institution. The committee believes that a localist brand can and should be used at least partly in the services and communication of the new agency. Mr President! The committee supports the adoption of the legislative proposals contained in the government proposal, largely unchanged, but proposes certain technical amendments to five legislative proposals and the adoption of two new legislative proposals in order to take account of the legislative amendments previously adopted. The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u105	Mr President! During this autumn, there has been a turn on the network of local register offices and services in a situation where the functions of the current Population Register Centre and the Local Register Office are combined with the new Digi and Population Information Office as from 1 January 1920. There are currently 38 local register offices in different parts of Finland. However, it was recorded in the official proposal of the Ministry of Finance that only 18 of them would have been registered in the Government Decree. For the remaining 20 seats, the decision-making power over their fate would have been in the hands of the new agency without any political influence on them. In Finnish, in the Government Decree, the offices would have been safe in only 18 cities. In the remaining cases, there was a clear risk of their abolition as an official decision. This would have meant a further concentration of services. We, as a centre party, want to secure high-quality services throughout the country. For this reason, a phrase was added in our proposal: ‘The government requires the government to ensure the availability of highquality services by the Digital and Population Information Office throughoutthe country, taking into account the needs forother visits, the lack As has already been said, our committee was completely unanimous on this. It is very important for the equality of citizens that all over Finland there are services at a reasonable distance in the future. In my opinion, it would make sense in future to decide on all or at least most of the decisions relating to the site networks by means of a joint decision of the entire Government in the Government Regulations. Mr President! Finally, I would like to say that the name of the Digi and Population Information Office should continue to be the Local Register Office. Clumsy word monsters are not conducive to bringing citizens and the state administration closer together. Or how would you feel about getting married in a place called the Digi and Population Information Agency?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u106	Mr President! For my part, I would like to thank the committee for the fact that, just as we have just heard through the representative, it requires the government to ensure that the services of the Local Register Office, the Digital and Population Information Office, are secure throughout the country. Local register office services will now continue to be available in regional cities and rural areas. It is also particularly important that the committee's position on the need to take account of the fact that not everyone is able to do digital work online, but that we also need a personal visit to the Local Register Office. Although services can and must be provided via the Internet today, the importance of nearby facilities is still very important. Firstly, not everyone has knowledge or access to a computer, and it is not always possible to replace personal advice with a telephone service. The extensive network of sites and its security also serve the population, but it must also be taken into account that it employs in the region, when the dense network of services of the local government is present in the region, and it also sends a message to the region that the state administration is present and that there is a desire to take care of us. These are the very care we need for a small person everywhere in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u107	Mr President! We are therefore dealing with a proposal from the Government which includes legislative changes concerning matters related to the Population Register Centre, the Local Register Office and the Regional State Administrative Agency of Eastern Finland. This package was approved last season, and now the government proposal needs to be specified. This is what we have discussed in the Committee on Administration and, as our chairman, Mr Purra, has just pointed out in this regard the committee's position, which was unanimously adopted there, so it is of course important that this government proposal improves access to these electronic services and also harmonises practices and processes. We also had a lot of discussion in committee about the Local Register Offices and the name of the Digi and Population Information Office. But when it was discussed and discussed last season, it was found that it is not the best possible, but when there is also a name contest and so on, this is what is going on. However, in this report, the committee pointed out in this name that we welcome the fact that the Ministry of Finance is currently assessing how the new agency could continue to operate using the reputation of the Local Register Office as a traditional institution. The committee believes that this localist name can and must be used at least partly in the services and customer communications of the new agency. One thing, too, which was discussed quite a bit by the committee was these different age limits, which relate to digital or e-services, and in particular to the age of children and young people who are able to use e-services and the age of children and young people who are also able to see things related to the child. And the committee would like to draw attention to ‘from the point of view of the development of legislation, including for the treatment of underage children and their ‘Article 8(1) of the Data Protection Regulation provides that personal data processing is based on consent Member States can set a lower age limit for this purpose and, last season, when this data protection regulation was adopted, there was a major debate about whether it was 13, 14 or 15, and then it ended up in this 13 year period. And in the context of the adoption of its data protection law, the committee has stated that setting age limits as such is, in principle, quite challenging for the individual development of children and young people. It is important that the information of the child's guardian is properly safeguarded, but then also the right of the child and young person to take advantage of the services of the information society and to participate in digital culture and the use of electronic services must, of course, be made possible and not unnecessarily restricted. Mr President! As regards this debate on the proposal for a statement adopted unanimously by our committee, since this whole will be nationalised and now in the future the Digi and Population Information Office will also be able to share the pressure on regional services in such a way that if there is a large number of people in another region who need services and another part does not exist at the moment, then — and this will enable it — the services will also be able to be provided and used regardless of time, the committee saw fit to make a statement to ensure that this is available to Parliament: “The government requires that the digital and demographic information agency’s quality services be secured throughout the country, taking into account, among other things, the needs of visitation, the lack of IT equipment or user competence in part of the population, the reduction of the capacity of the authority due to ageing and illness, and the need of linguistic services in both national languages and Sami languages.” Mr President! Although Mr Huttunen has just made it clear in his speech that all autumn there has been a turn on these offices of the Local Register Offices, it must be said that there has been no twist in the committee on this issue. We have all been in complete agreement on this issue. We asked for a draft regulation on the Ministry of Finance and unanimously discussed this availability of services and unanimously said that there would be a place for a statement here, and that was also adopted unanimously. That, as Vice-President of the committee, I did not in any way recognize this ‘full autumn’ of Mr Huttunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u108	Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, I was the minister of responsibility, who presented a law in this Chamber which was adopted in February 2019, in which, indeed, the Local Register Offices and The Population Register Centre was put together. First of all, with regard to this name issue, whenever new entities are put together, it is difficult to find a good, concise name in Finnish, they easily become word monsters. We prepared this, among other things, so that we asked Mr Kotus, the Centre for the Languages of Finland, for a statement on this, but there were no very simple proposals for names, and this was then formulated as the Digi and Population Information Office in the Ministry. I share the idea of what has become here in the speeches, that the Local Register Office is called this kind of historical and traditional name, and I would not think it bad at all, if in the future, when these are truly combined, could also be used in a way as a "helpline" to show where these services of the Local Register Offices are all in all. I am pleased that the committee has made this unanimous statement, which, in my opinion, is a good report that we want to safeguard the services of the state administration in the whole of Finland, in particular the Local Register Offices. I also drew attention to this point raised by Mrs Talvitie about how this new agency is national. It will, of course, give the possibility that if there is congestion at the local register office there will also be assistance in these matters. That is a good thing, but it does not rule out the fact that we should not have a relatively dense establishment network in these matters, and that is why I welcome the fact that this statement has indeed been put here. Then, on a more general level, I would like to say that, when we know that, in fact, for a long time now, our network of state governments has been reduced locally or regionally, I understand very well that public confidence in both the state and political decision-making is being undermined by such decisions, i.e. the experience that services are becoming increasingly elusive. Indeed, not everyone has the opportunity to handle them via digital, and it is therefore important that there is also physical contact. In fact, this development, where we are now, has taken place in several decades and many governments. During the last parliamentary term, the coordination group on regionalisation carried out a report on the development of local government offices over several Government term periods. It was harshly reported that these establishments have never been reduced in general from regional centres, towns and cities, but that they have generally been reduced from the regions' second, third and fourth largest cities or sub-regions. We all know, as parliamentarians here, that this is going to be very much feedback. I would like to say that a few ten years ago quite a few points of the law provided for the location of those establishments. Then we went more and more to the government regulations, and then we went to the ministerial decrees, and then there are the agency's own rules of procedure, which govern these places of employment. It has already been pointed out in these previous speeches that there is a certain problem here. I'll take an example. It is just any decision on the government agency that we are here to legislate, then we usually give a decree when it comes to legislating, and we may not always know where it is going. After all, we should always have a regulation here in the context of the law on which we give the power to adopt a regulation. This is not always the case. I welcome the fact that, at this point, the Administrative Committee itself has also wanted to look at the draft regulation that will only be adopted and adopted after the adoption and adoption of the law. This development has been achieved by the fact that, as Members of Parliament, we do, in a way, bear its political responsibility if we have distanced it and put it at lower levels of regulation. In practice, if it is not in the Government Decree which is adopted at the General Assembly of the Government, then it may be in the Rules of Procedure of the Office and then an individual official, usually the Head of the Office, can then make the decisions of the Office accordingly. He never comes out of it in public, so to speak, to take on his coat, but to take on representative Talvitie or whoever at any time, in whose territory these decisions come. That is why I think it is very important and I would like to see representatives awake on all the committees in this House, because this applies to everyone — there is, of course, a lot of decision-making in the Committee on Government Administration, but there are many other committees dealing with point networks — representatives are awake on these issues and we understand what it means when a regulation is adopted, and then there is a greater understanding of the government when it comes to making Government decrees or then making ministerial decrees, that very carefully, very little is given the opportunity to decide on offices in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u109	Mr President! Thank you very much to all the representatives, to the members of the Administrative Committee for a clear and good presentation of the matter. Local government includes police services, local register offices, enforcement offices, prosecutors' offices, employment and economic development offices, tax offices, Customs and legal aid offices. Although services are currently available and things can always be handled via the Internet, the importance of establishments close to them remains important. Not everyone may have the skills or even the ability to use a computer, nor will personal advice be replaced by a telephone service. Not only does the extensive establishment network serve the inhabitants of the region and employs, but the dense service network of the local government also sends out a message to the regions that the state is present and the state cares. As Mr Vehviläinen has rightly pointed out, there is some kind of failure to decide on the site network. Thus, the network of local government offices is currently defined either in the Government Decree, the Ministry Decree or as an agency's own decision. In practice, for example, the decisions taken by the Minister for the Interior have allowed police stations to be closed down, the decisions taken by the Minister for Justice have allowed for the closure of a new, significant office of the Office or, in the present case, the Director-General of the Office could have closed the premises. It would therefore be reasonable for all site networks to be decided in the future in a Government decree, i.e. by decision of the entire government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u110	Mr President! The development of digital services is important, but it is good to remember that we now have almost a million citizens who cannot, can or can not use digital services, and that is why, alongside the development of digital services, we must also take care of the services provided by telephone and face-to-face and also the quality of them. In order to ensure this, this committee's proposal for a statement is very much to be welcomed. We have sometimes had a period of digital leaping, where the development of parallel services has been too limited when it comes to these digital services directly. Similarly, it is very important that this provision of services throughout Finland is also included in that statement. To the extent that, hopefully, the development of these digital services will also take greater account of accessibility, as digital services can be developed either more easily or more easily. Unfortunately, I have noticed that often when digital services are developed, accessibility is still forgotten, i.e. they are developed from an engineering point of view, and the user's point of view is too often forgotten, and this should now be given special attention. Finally, Mr President, I too wish that we could continue to talk about the Local Register Offices. It is a very traditional and well-known name, and the citizens know and recognise the Local Register Offices well, and it is sad if this valuable name becomes obsolete in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u111	Mr President! A direct follow-up to Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen's speech: I agree with all of these, including the fact that why this kind of digital and civil service agency — whether this was called, or what terrible name it was, and of course it will be shortened at some point by initials and there will be one more acronym — when we have a classic localist. I am very strongly of this opinion on the name issue. But my actual speech relates to the same subject which has already been raised here, namely this digital exclusion. Finnish society has now started to measure, as it were, that we are at the forefront of development in the development of these digital services. Everything will be transferred to a digital format. The system is penetrating throughout society. I cannot, in itself, criticise it because it is probably the future in some form, in any case, that more and more of this operation through networks will become part of our life-form. But at least in this transitional period we must take into account the fact that we have a large group of people who are unable to use these services. There will also be them in the future, then we will probably be talking about people who have physical problems with this to do, but at the moment we have quite simply the reality of ageing in that people live in a different reality than this world at the moment. I have a very recent statistics on Statistics Finland concerning the population of people over 65 and the extent to which they have mobile phones and computers at their disposal. Start with over 75-year-olds: almost 80% of people over 75-year-olds — 77% of Finnish citizens over 75-year-olds — do not have a computer. 88 per cent do not have a tablet, so 90 per cent do not have a tablet either. And it is even the case that 16 % of all over 75 do not even have a mobile phone, which means that they are genuinely excluded from this modern technology. Between 65 and 75 years, 40% of people do not have a computer. We currently have 300,000 people over the age of 65 who do not have computers or computer capabilities. If we now transfer basic services to a computer-based digital world, we will have a large number of people who will be dropped off. This is genuine age discrimination, Mr President, genuine age discrimination. And in this respect, we in Parliament must be very careful that this digital leap, as this term was correctly used, is brought to a halt in such a way that we respect people's ability to be involved in development. They have the right to certain basic services, and they must be guaranteed to all people in a natural way, and cannot go on the terms of the digital world, on the terms of technology, but must go on the terms of the people. Mr President, I would like to underline this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u112	Mr President! The Finns also believe that people's terms must move forward on these digital issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u119	Mr President! I will return to that availability of services from a couple of points of view. Firstly, we have talked a lot about this accessibility of services in the Administrative Committee last season. When things are simple and common and follow the so-called normal path, e-services are quick, smooth, user-friendly and easy, and so on, but it always requires a telephone service, personal advice, physical access to e-services. We will never get to such a Finland — even though I myself have been a diploma engineer and had dealings with these matters — where all the business in our Digi and Population Information Office would be merely electronic. Then on that point raised by Mr Vehviläinen, the Minister for Digital Affairs and Local Government of the last period, namely this power of regulation, which Parliament has with regard to the offices: it is a big mandate, and in many places I have now noticed that there is no regulation there in the government's proposal, and that is precisely the kind of thing that it is important for all of us in the parliamentary committee to deal with. However, we have the right to ask the Ministry what kind of regulation is coming, and in that sense there is also the responsibility, because we know that people have different backgrounds at the offices, and when I come from Oulu, I also know that there is a long way to go, but there is sometimes an even longer way to go. So when they say someone's far away, it seems to be far away in the imaginations. I have heard that people working at the Helsinki office, for example, consider Pasila very distant, if the office is in Pasila or if you have to go from Helsinki to Pasila or if you have to go from Helsinki to Espoo, but often to Oulu people who come to meetings and other Helsinki, that trip is quite short. In other words, the political power and responsibility that we have here in Parliament, in relation to the power of regulation: as Mr Vehviläinen pointed out, political responsibility lies with us. Let me finish briefly: I will ease the concerns raised by Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen and Mr Kiljunen about this name of the Local Register Offices. Indeed, the committee unanimously stated that we encourage the local register offices to be able to and must take advantage, at least in part, of the new agency's services or customer communications by the name of the local register office and, in particular, of this traditional feeling.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u120	Mr President! Now there has been a good discussion both in this Chamber and in that Administrative Committee on this Digi- and Population Information Office issue, and it has been really great to see how this kind of customer orientation has been the starting point for all of us. Many times, when you develop your operations, then you lose the customer perspective, and yet the main reason why these services exist is precisely the customers and the fact that your services are running smoothly. Thank you to Mr Kiljunen for the good reminder that not everyone is yet digital in Finland, and we must ensure that all public services are equally accessible. This reminder will probably continue to be needed in many different contexts. Now that this issue has been discussed here and we are familiar with it, it is well noted that it is aimed both at developing and harmonising policies and processes, and then at not compromising the fact that services are still attainable and that they must be accessible and also such regional equality will be achieved. That was a very central starting point in the committee, as has already been heard, and we unanimously raised this point there. It is important that this is now digitally able to develop these processes and become this kind of national domain, which will then enable, among other things, better staff specialisation and the fact that the human resource is in more efficient use. But it does not in any way exclude the possibility of still keeping to the points of contact, this site network. It remains to be seen how well it will be in practice and how well these resources will be sufficient for it, but at least I would like this to be an example now, that this work will continue to be carried out in this same way as state services are being developed, and perhaps even more can be considered in such a way as to enable the various services of state agencies to function at the same point, so that we can continue to take into account the fact that very often people also need that human contact and not just electronic means are not sufficient. Yes, much of this name has given rise to debate. Not only does it seem very clumsy and rigid, but it is also part of accessibility. When you think about how easily people feel about which agency you can get what service, the name is also very central, and not just that this is a very clumsy and linguisticly rigid name. The hope is that in the future, however, the local register office as a brand name will still be able to survive. Thank you to Mrs Vehviläinen for the background that what is behind this, because indeed in committee too much of this was discussed and it was very much wondered that this kind of name has been drawn up. A little while ago, when it was clarified that there was a name contest behind it, we wondered how bad the other proposals that have been lost here must have been when this has been the best. But I'm sure there's a lot of work to be done here and there, but let's hope there's still a local register name in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u121	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Juvonen, for raising this clear language quite separately. Plain language is part of that accessibility and accessibility, but even less is said about it so far, because accessibility is all too often understood as a mere lack of physical accessibility, even though it is an observation of all senses. Plain language is a very important part of this total accessibility. After all, we are estimated to have as many as 700,000 people who would benefit from plain language. This group includes a wide range of people, including people with memory problems, people with disabilities, but also immigrants. So using this would be very useful for a lot of people. Fortunately, we have had a couple of good example organisations who have taken up this challenge. For example, Kela is now trying to make guidelines and forms in English in the future. And if I do not remember quite correctly now, for example, the Central Hospital of Satakunta has also decided that their instructions in the future will all be plain - language. Surely it is also good news for all patients and customers that they are plain language in terms of readability and understanding of their instructions. And I really do hope that we will take up this challenge more widely in the various organisations and bodies of society, because it would be the equality of communication that comes from where it is understandable to everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u122	Mr President! I, too, would have returned for a moment to this name issue when it is so strongly expressed in everyday use. I would like to register in this context as such cultural conservative, even though I think I am radical. We should be able to appreciate that past history. Too often we try through appointments and by giving a new name, as it were, to dispel the reality behind it. The cleaners become institutional administrators and so on, we have plenty of these examples. But if I just think about an everyday event when so many people go to the Local Register Office even if they marry, will they then marry the Digi and Population Information Office in the future, or will they marry to DVTV or what? Why do we complicate people's lives, associations, our culture? Respect the past, give it space, reform society, but we don't have to change everything by force.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u123	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, for your excellent speech. In that sense, plain language is also important to us all, that at the point when that hard drive in that brain starts to be full of stuff and text and performances, it is always easier to understand when it is spoken in plain language. That is why it is important that, here in Parliament too, we use that language every now and then. I would like to highlight this digital exclusion in relation to older people and, in particular, in relation to banking services. After all, banking services today have to use that computer and pay with bank credentials for their bills, but not all older people have the opportunity to do so, and then the bank will deal with these issues. Of course it pays for the bill, whether it's a payment service or it does it at the ATM, if there's still one at the bank. It would be very important for the elderly to face up well in banking services and for the banks to direct, advise the elderly in banking services and develop, for example, a basis or model for learning how to pay the bills. On the other hand, if you don't have that computer, you can't do that either. This is particularly true for older people who, for example, are being treated, hospitalized and unable to pay their bills. In that case, you may have to go into enforcement, which means you have payment problems because you can't handle the bills, and maybe no one's even there to take it forward. Important things. There has been a lot of talk and a lot of talk about this presentation. These were the comments I now had on this issue — to take into account the elderly in the future in this digital network and in the world and to take care of their affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u124	Ärade Herr Talman, Mr President! The office of the Digital and Population Information Office also covers the province of Åland, where the tasks assigned to the Local Register Offices — such as the duties of the guardian authority, marriages and the functions of a public notary — are carried out by the State Office of Åland pursuant to Article 3(2) of the Registration Administration Act. The role and competence of the Government Office of Åland will remain unchanged in the context of the change. However, the jurisdiction of the Government Office of Åland should be governed by specific legislation, as the Registration Administration Act will be repealed when the Digi and Population Information Office Act enters into force. The Digital and Population Information Office and the Government Office of Åland will continue to act as joint registry administrators within the meaning of Article 26 of the EU Data Protection Regulation. The committee considers the solution chosen to be justified and notes that the tasks, responsibilities and obligations of the joint controller are properly described in the proposed provisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u125	Mr President! I will return to this question of name. As I said here myself, I understand that this localist title should continue to be used to tell us where to find those services in this respect. This background is indeed related to the fact that we currently have the Population Register Centre, known as VRK, and then we have the Local Register Offices, and in this context, when this law was adopted in February 2019, we brought together the functional development tasks of state digitalisation, because they were very fragmented on different sides. It is known that, for example, the task of e-identification is a complex one, it has now been slightly altered in a different way, and perhaps in the future the bank identification lists that we are now using will be completely removed from our hands and we may even need a state identification solution. In other words, such things are also done in the so-called new agency. That's why it can't be called the Local Register Office. Cannot name the Local Register Office and below Functions of the Population Register Centre. In addition to Trafi, the Population Register Centre is one of the largest registers in Finland overall. I was just painting that if we had just put all these titles together, we would probably have the Population Register Centre, the Local Register Office and the Digital Office, and I don't know if it would be all right. It is really difficult to find a good name when you put such important, big functions together, but, as I said, I have nothing against it if this Local Register Office name is used in places where there is a Local Register Office service point, so that it is displayed and included.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u126	Congressman Kinnunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u130	Mr President! For the next time. Thank you to Mrs Vehviläinen for this clarification. It will help those who have not followed this process more closely to understand what is being sought. On the other hand, I think that there is such a thing as a concept under which there are different activities. If there is a ‘Senate-Requirements’ sub-item-directly,what is the Senate-Requirement? If we have the name ‘maistraat’, so in the future we will understand thatit also includes Its activities areextensional,butI do I'm not gonna start making them up here when they're here for names. In some way you would like to respect that name of the Local Register Office, it is so old, and there is such a clear picture of it. Instead, I wanted to take the floor — Mr Juvonen has already left — when he raised the nature of this digital banking service, and when I quoted Statistics Finland's statistics, I also read this statistics on older people in an online bank. It is useful for all of us to get these last figures for 2018. In other words, it is quite clear that the older the person is involved, the weaker he is in such digital services. It is divided into two parts: people between the ages of 65 and 75 — I belong to the age group — and 66% of these online banking services are used, i.e. one third of people between the ages of 65 and 75 do not use online banking services, and when looking at the forms to be completed in an online bank, 30 % of people between the ages of 65 and 75, i.e. 70 % do not fill in the forms. And when you go to older age groups, 75-year-olds and up, only 30% of those over 75-year-olds use online banking services, 70% do not. They don't use them, so they're the ones who're waiting in line outside the bank's services and paying heavy bills for using that old style. And the figures for filling out the forms are even more gruesome: only 10% of people over the age of 75 fill out the forms through networks, or 90% do not. These are the figures that are now coming from Statistics Finland for us to see. We see that this is a genuine, big problem for a significant number of Finnish people now, and we must be able to pay proper attention to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u131	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 4/2019 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — Mr Vehviläinen, Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u132	Mr President! Report 4/2019 by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is under discussion. The report deals with increases in small tax-funded pensions. The Committee welcomes the fact that the income of those living on the lowest pension incomes will be improved by raising national pension and guarantee pension. The guarantee pension has previously been increased by three levels between 2017 and 2019 by a total of EUR 47. The national pension has been last increased by a flat-rate increase of EUR 20 by a law that entered into force from the beginning of 2008. The proposed increase in national pension of around EUR 34 and EUR 50 in guarantee pension is targeted at some 609,000 pensioners whose total pension is less than EUR 1200 to EUR 1300 per month. As a result of the increases, the number of beneficiaries of the guarantee pension and national pension is estimated to increase by around 20,000 persons. After the increases, the number of guaranteed pension recipients is around 116000 and the number of people receiving national pension is approximately 220000. As a result of the proposed changes, budgetary expenditure is estimated to increase by around EUR 183 million. The increase of the national pension, as proposed, by approximately EUR 34 will increase the full amount of national pension to approximately EUR 663 per month for a single person and EUR 592 per month for a person living in a partnership in 2020. The amount of the national pension will be reduced as earnings-related pension income increases so that the national pension will not be paid to a self-employed person with an earnings-related pension of around EUR 1368 per month and to a person living in a partnership with a working pension of around EUR 1226 per month. With a total pension of around EUR 1000 per month, the net increase is approximately EUR 19 per month. The increase of the guarantee pension by EUR 50 will increase the full amount of the guarantee pension to approximately EUR 835 per month next year. The increase in the net pension for those receiving a guarantee pension is approximately EUR 47 to 50 per month. A guarantee pension is paid if the other pension income is less than EUR 827 per month in 2020. The proposed increases also include an index increase in 2020. The increase in the level of the national pension increases the amount of the additional front allowance and the full basic grant under the Military Grants Act. The increase in the guarantee pension also raises the minimum wage limit for submitting an invalidity pension to rest. The increase in the guarantee pension will also improve the position of older long-term unemployed people in a difficult labour market position, as the amount of the pension is linked to the amount of the guarantee pension. The proposal also proposes to increase the minimum amount of rehabilitation allowance and rehabilitation allowance for young people in vocational rehabilitation to match the guarantee pension. The Committee also considers it appropriate to propose that the amounts of additional payments for farmers be adjusted to the amount of the national pension, in line with the proposed change. The Committee welcomes the fact that the supplementary allowance threshold and the coefficient of the supplementary own contribution for the pensioner's housing allowance are changed according to the proposal, so that the change in pension income does not have a significant impact on the housing allowance for the pensioner and therefore does not reduce the increase in disposable income. However, the Committee would draw attention to the fact that some pensioners receive a housing allowance of between EUR 0 and EUR 17 per month for approximately six thousand people receiving general housing allowance. In this case, the increase in the pension does not increase the income available to them in full. The proposed increases will improve the livelihoods of the most low-income pensioners and reduce slightly the low-income ratio. The need for income support for pensioners will also be reduced. In the Committee's view, reducing the need for last-time income support and dependency on income support by increasing primary benefits is appropriate both for beneficiaries and for the whole social security system. The committee stresses that the income of the pensioner is not only dependent on income but also on the expenditure and wealth of the pensioner. Expenditure on housing and ill health in particular causes many pensioners difficulties in making ends meet. This is also reflected in the withdrawals of pensioners. The committee notes that the current law on social and health care charges already allows the municipality to make customer fees more reasonable. However, the committee considers it important and necessary that the reform of the legislation on customer fees should continue as a matter of urgency. According to the Government Programme, the aim of the reform is to remove the barriers to care and to increase the equality of health by, among other things, extending the freedom to pay and making payments more affordable. The Committee also welcomes the fact that, in accordance with the Government Programme, the conditions for introducing an aid scheme alongside the household allowance could also benefit the least-incomed. The reduction of pensioner poverty requires comprehensive and informed measures. The Committee draws attention to the fact that the existing information on pensioner poverty is partly fragmented and considers it necessary to carry out a comprehensive and systematic study of the nature and causes of pensioner poverty. Mr President! This report also contains two objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u133	Mr President! Thank you, Congressman. A clear introduction to the wheat. Indeed, we discussed and supported this increase in pensions in the Parliamentary Committee on Social Affairs and Health at the end of October. The full amount of the national pension will now be increased by approximately EUR 34 per month and the full amount of the guarantee pension by EUR 50 per month from the beginning of next year. These increases concern over 600,000 Finnish pensioners. So they will have a positive effect on a very large group of people. It is particularly important for us in the centre that we can target increases to the most low-income pensioners, and in this way as effectively as possible to reduce pensioner poverty. Last season the guarantee pension was already increased several times, with a total of approximately EUR 40, but it was hardly noticed in the media. I think it is clear that these increases in pensions that will come into force at the beginning of next year are not enough, and we still have a great deal to improve on the income of pensioners. However, the direction is good and correct. We should take better account of the fact that many pensioners are faced with a crucial difficulty in everyday life because the cost of living and living is often very high. The mere level of pension is not the only determining factor in the survival of pensioners in their daily lives, but it is influenced by many other factors. From the point of view of the low-income population, especially the elderly, high-quality and easily accessible basic services are also very important. That is why we need to reform the social security system. Mr President! The Centre considers it important that the legislation on customer fees should also be reformed in such a way that the charges for low-income people who use a lot of services do not increase. In the Government negotiations, we reserved EUR 45000000 for the renewal of the Customer Fees Act, so that barriers to treatment can be removed and equality in health care can be increased, including by extending the freedom to pay. The committee is, like the representative, The Vehviläinen pointed out, drew attention in his report to the urgent need to reform this legislation on customer fees. Mr President! The cost of living and living is often emphasised in sparsely populated areas and outside centres. According to a survey by the Finnish Centre for Pensions, pensioners in rural areas have more difficulties with their livelihood than residents. This is why, for example, electricity transmission charges should be affordable as a matter of urgency, and that is what Mr Kulmuni has promised to take forward. It is great that the livelihoods of pensioners are now being discussed and that the government will also make a concrete contribution and improve the livelihoods of the lowest-income pensioners by means of these increases. In its report, the committee states that reducing pensioner poverty requires comprehensive and informed examination and measures and that the existing information on pensioner poverty is quite fragmented. I think it is very important for the committee to say that we need a comprehensive and systematic study of the nature and causes of pensioner poverty. It is important to make progress on this. No one should or should be afraid of ageing and retirement, but we must do everything in our power to ensure that Finland is safe to retire and age. It is our responsibility to secure the livelihood of pensioners, just as it is our responsibility to secure these various services.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u134	Mr President! Improving the livelihood of those living on the pension income of the smallest pensions by raising national pension and guaranteed pension is a very positive thing. In addition to the EUR 34 or EUR 54 for people living in small pensions, which will certainly make it easier to survive in everyday life, it is also noteworthy that this money is quickly returned to the national economy cycle, because there will be no savings from small pensions, and pensioners will spend it on everyday spending. It is important to emphasise that the proposed increases will improve the livelihoods of the least-income pensioners and will also slightly reduce the low-income ratio. The need for income support for pensioners is also decreasing, and this is important because income support should always be the last benefit. So this bill is a good one and a good one, but like the committee, I would like to stress that not only incomes but also the taxes and wealth of pensioners affect the income of pensioners. Expenditure on housing and ill health in particular causes many pensioners difficulties in making ends meet, and this is also reflected in the number of severances of pensioners. Even the current Act on Social and Health Care Customer Fees allows the municipality to moderate customer fees, but this so-called moderation clause is too rarely used. I have even heard it said that the municipalities there do not even know and recognise the existence of this clause of moderation. It is precisely the purpose of the article that is to prevent people from being exposed to unfair situations because of customer charges or the like. I hope that the message of this possibility of moderation will now spread through this and, despite the financial difficulties in the municipalities, moderation would be used where humanly necessary. The worst option is that elderly people do not use services and do not buy medicines because of a lack of money. Studies show that the low socio-economic position is associated with weaker physical and mental performance, higher morbidity and higher mortality in older people. The low-income and low-income elderly need, for example, home service and home care far more than those on higher incomes, but they feel that they are not getting enough of these services. So while this moderation is already possible — and I hope that this issue will be dug up from one of those desk drawers if this matter has been forgotten — we also need a reform of the wider bill on customer fees, and this reform is being prepared in the Ministry. The concept of nursing poverty is also used to describe this phenomenon I described earlier. Nursing poverty is a person who does not get enough help and at the same time feels that he has an unfulfilled need for help, such as care of clothing, washing, nutrition, or cleaning. It is worrying that 26 per cent of those over 75 years of age experience a lot of unfulfilled needs in their daily lives. In terms of daily life needs, care poverty is explained most by low incomes, poor health and also by the residential area. Care poverty is particularly experienced in receiving practical help, such as nutrition, cleaning, washing, or just the most important human basic needs. To sum up, this bill is a very good one, but at the same time it must be admitted that this is only the beginning of improving the situation of low-income pensioners. But we have to start somewhere, and this is a good start. And I would also like to stress the need to carry out multidisciplinary research so that we can, for example, have the whole phenomenon of nursing poverty and pensioners' poverty examined and then taken effective and correct measures in addition to this bill. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u135	Mr President! This bill on the increase in the minimum pensions, i.e. national pensions and guaranteed pensions, is, in its own way, historic. Its historical context is therefore important to note that it is more broadly related to the priorities of the Government Programme, which take into account older people, and pensioner poverty is now being taken seriously. Why do I say this is historic? Because during the last 25 years, pensioners, older people over 65 years of age, have been the group of income recipients whose benefits have been most weakened, more than at any time in the history of Finland. This government is the first government that now reverses the course in this respect and takes seriously the extensive programme to improve and improve the living conditions of older people. This is one of the reforms that are being made here. Now we are talking about pension provision, but there are a lot of other things that will still be dealt with here in Parliament very broadly, starting with the care guarantees, the dimensions of care, the doctor's access, the improvement of home services, the Ombudsman for the elderly and so on. So the list is a long, fine, valuable list that takes the affairs of the elderly seriously. This is now precisely about raising the minimum pensions, i.e. the guarantee pension and the national pension. So the State's tax resources are being used for this, and that is why it is now on the agenda here in the budget debate. However, I would now like to clarify this so that these concepts are clear, because they are not clear to the citizens either, and we are not clear either. When we talk about the low-income pensioners, the guaranteed pension recipients and the beneficiaries of the national pension, we still have the impression that we are talking about the elderly, the elderly. We are not talking about the elderly, we are not really talking about the elderly. When the national pension system was created in the 1930s, it was precisely the protection of the elderly. And the national pension system was the basis, as an old-age pension, until 1995 until the basic part of the national pension was abolished. The earnings-related pension became our statutory protection for the elderly. This is an illusion in the debates in this Chamber, too, that when we talk about a guarantee pension or a national pension: We have the impression that we are talking about the elderly, the elderly in Finland. We don't talk about them. Eighty per cent of people receiving full national pension, i.e. guaranteed pension, are persons under 65 years of age. Very vulnerable population, very vulnerable population. We are talking about disabled people, we are talking about people with mental health problems, we are talking about people with substance abuse who are unable to participate in working life, and that is why they receive a guarantee pension, and that is why they receive a full national pension. 80% are under 65 years of age. We have more people under the age of 40 who receive full national pensions than those over the age of 65. In this respect, this must now be recognised in this Chamber, that when we talk about national pensions, the guarantee pension, we are talking primarily about disability pensioners. A very, very vulnerable group for which the entire life cycle will be low income. They will also have very little pension cover in due course, and that is why it is a valuable, important addition to take up this group of pensioners, but it is not as if we are taking old-age pensions seriously. It is now good for us to be aware of this. It is just as important to talk about improving the life situation of disabled pensioners as about raising student grants or child supplements. You have to take it. This government programme is now investing EUR 183 million in this, and it is a great thing that this is the first step on this path. After all, there we have the idea of a promise and a commitment that we will try to raise all these pensions under EUR 1400 by EUR 100 during this parliamentary term, which we have as an internal objective in this respect. Another dimension is also included in the Government Programme, which is important to take into account. It is noted that 98 per cent of people aged 65 or old-age pensioners, or those I wanted to talk about right now, receive earnings-related pension, i.e. 98 per cent receive earnings-related pension. This Government Programme contains a entry: ‘Initiating a three-fold survey on howto improve the status of the least-favoured persons in the occupational pension system. “ This is a top priority, in fact it is one of the most important and major openings in this pensioner programme of the Government Programme. Finally, and finally with this entry, we want to seize the money that is earmarked for pensions in the Finnish economy, and the money that has grown into pension funds has been considered virtually untouched. That money is now being helped, and it is of the utmost importance that this step has been taken. It is the idea that negotiations will be launched in the trio; they are already on the way. I would also like to see representatives of pension organisations involved in this negotiation process, as if this were being negotiated in a quadruple, moving forward, because pensioner organisations have a key role to play here. They were involved when a joint report on the folded index came out in 2013. This study was carried out in the four sides, i.e. the social partners were involved, the government was involved, and then also the pensioner organisations, for the first time they were involved in this. It would be desirable if, now that we start thinking about how this EUR 100 increase in pensions under EUR 1400 could be achieved, when the funds from this side of the budget are not clearly enough, the resources that have been made available to the pension system itself could be used in this context: what is the cost, and how can we achieve that? Now I see the red light again. I have to ask for another floor on this subject so that I can move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u136	Do it. There's still plenty of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u137	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! So much for the Mayan, then, and the big bills.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u142	Mr President! There is now a proposal for an increase in small pensions, and it is justified by you. The proposal improves the livelihood of the most low-income pensioners and slightly reduces the low income ratio, and the need for income support for pensioners is also reduced. However, the amounts of euro that have now been raised are far from what Prime Minister Rinne promised on May Day, but this is better than nothing. The increase in the national pension and guarantee pension will increase the minimum pension rate in relation to small occupational pensions. In the committee's deliberations, however, we considered it important that a tripartite study should be launched, in accordance with the Government Programme, on how to improve the position of the smallest people in the earnings-related pension system, because it is worth working for, and work should always be rewarded in the form of pensions. For example, if you have worked for decades on low wages, it must be in the interests of moderation and fairness that your pension is higher than that paid with social aid. It should be noted that the purchasing power of pensioners and the amount of money available are influenced not only by the actual pension, but also by a number of other factors such as social and health care charges, the content of the ceiling, medicines and the price of food and energy. The customer fees for the collection of pensioners have also increased, and many people fail to obtain the services and medicines necessary for financial difficulties. It is not in the interests of pensioners. It is therefore important to ensure that every elderly person is provided with adequate income. The Consumer Fees Act will hopefully be introduced into the Parliament, and when reforming it, the situation of pensioners must be taken into account in order to ensure adequate income and reduce pensioner poverty. The Group of the Party of European Socialists is concerned about the sustainable financing of expenditure increases. Funding is strongly based on the achievement of the 75% employment rate, and the government must therefore demonstrate effective means of raising the employment rate and thus also to finance pension increases. We have therefore tabled a proposal which, however, was not supported by the government. We will protest in the draft statement that Parliament requires that ‘the government should provide adequate employment measures to finance pension increases’. It must be the case that pensioners are allowed to keep at least these small increases as far as they are concerned with this bill if the proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u143	Mr President! I would like to ask Mr Laiho about the fact that, at the beginning of that afternoon, at another point in the debate on occupational pensions and what it involves when there was a second draft of the law, and I was left with the ears of Minister Pekos, the representative of the Coalition Party, Mr Sarkomaa, to ask whether this tripartite working party, referred to in the Government Programme, would begin to do so by applying for an increase in small working pensions within the earnings-related pension scheme. — I hope Mr Kiljunen will also listen, because this is a matter of particular importance to him. — — — —
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u144	And now, Mr Laiho, and then back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u145	Mr President! What I meant was that yes, if a person has worked, that pension must be higher than that of a pensioner who is on a mere guarantee pension. It is not right for occupational pensions to be touched in order to be able to finance other pensions. That a person who has earned his pension through his work must also be able to trust that his pension will be received.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u146	And now back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u147	Mr President! On Saturday I met Toini and Väinön in the yard of the S-market in Reisjärvi. They told me: "Listen, Mikko, we still have to drive a car, we live in a remote area. We have a house to warm up there, not just sell it.” ‘I am entitled to a pension of EUR 700 in the month’, "I don't want to complain,but I worry that I'm sick of being able to save my life. We are no longer healthy, but now we are no longer murmuring," he concluded his impressive speech. The representatives of the pension unions who visited us in the autumn also spoke about the same thing. Pension poverty must be eliminated. Pensioners pointed out that the poverty of pensioners is affected not only by income, pensions, but also by a wide range of expenses: housing expenditure, service charges, food, medicines, mobility and high energy prices. The aged have built us this country. It's our turn to take care of them. Mr President! It should be remembered that during the last parliamentary term the guarantee pension was increased by just under EUR 47 per month by the central government. That was a good start. Now we'll continue along this road. The increases now being made are very important for the lowest-income pensioners. We must continue to try to raise the smallest pensions, and that is why this country must be maintained. However, the level of pension alone is not the only factor in assessing the survival and survival of pensioners in their daily lives. As Mr Aittakumpu has already said, high-quality and easily accessible basic services for people with low incomes and, in particular, for older people with high incomes are very important. We need a social welfare reform, which is very much awaited in municipalities with economic difficulties. As representatives of Vehviläinen and Juvonen have already said, some of the smallest pensioners also receive other benefits, housing allowance or income support. The increase in pensions will in part lead to a reduction in housing allowance and income support, which means that the income left in hand will not increase in full. However, income support is a last resort benefit, and the aim is that no one should have to rely on it for a long time. We must look at the lives of pensioners as a whole. I am pleased that the pension for pensioners who receive a pension of some EUR 609,000 or less each month is now rising. That includes Väinö and Toini. They hope to be supported at home for as long as possible. I also welcome the rise in the additional front allowance, the increase in the full basic allowance for military aid, the increase in the minimum wage limit for leaving the disability pension to rest, and the increase in the pension allowance provided for in the Pension Aid Act. It should be remembered that this law also applies to young people. Young people's rehabilitation allowance and the minimum amount of rehabilitation allowance in vocational rehabilitation will increase by the withdrawal of the guarantee pension. This is also linked to the extension of education and compulsory education, the joint phase of which, alongside vocational training and upper secondary school education, will create a third path, which will also involve this rehabilitative activity, as well as folk high schools, workshops, tenth grade groups and the opportunities that will help young people to move forward. This is very important that we all get involved through rehabilitation in education, work and life aside. I agree with the committee's proposals that, in accordance with the Government Programme, the conditions for introducing an aid scheme alongside the household allowance could also benefit the very least-incomed, as well as the proposal that the reduction of pensioner poverty should be examined in a multidisciplinary way. We need extensive research into pensioner poverty, its nature and its causes, so that we can make the right decisions so that we can eradicate poverty. This was also the wish of the pension unions and Väinö and Toini. That's what we owe them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u148	Madam President! The increase in small tax-funded pensions proposed in the government proposal is to be welcomed. The full amount of the national pension will be increased by EUR 34 per month and the guaranteed pension by EUR 50 per month. It is very positive that the livelihoods of the smallest people on pension income will finally be improved. Indeed, the most recent increase in national pension has been more than ten years ago. The proposed increases in national pension and guarantee pension will affect more than 600000 pensioners. So it's a big part of us. The increase in the guarantee pension will also increase the possibility of a slightly higher increase in earnings in addition to the disability pension, and the increase in the guarantee pension will also improve the position of older long-term unemployed. I would also like to emphasise the role of young people. The proposal to increase the rehabilitation allowance for young people and the rehabilitation allowance for vocational rehabilitation to match the guarantee pension is very much to be welcomed. This will contribute to the vocational rehabilitation of young people who are able to work part-time and non-working part-time adults, which is essential for strengthening the quality of life of the individual, i.e. of the individual.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u149	Madam President! Good speeches, and yes, this is an important decision in that regard and is part of the line the government has tried to promote. I am a little sorry that the opposition in particular is away from here. Especially in the social media, even today, when it was not even this section, but the employment pension legislation and so on, they were making a loud noise that we should now act: where are the Mayan rains on the slopes and so on. But then they won't be here when we talk about it. I appreciate the people of Finland who are here and who have also expressed their clear views in committee, but I wonder about the assembly, it is very special, [ Arja Juvonen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u150	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the law so that small tax-funded pensions would be increased so that the full amount of national pension would be increased by around EUR 34 per month and the full amount of guarantee pension by EUR 50 per month. It is proposed to amend the supplementary provision threshold and the coefficient of additional own contribution of the pensioner so that the change in pension income as proposed would have little impact on the housing allowance of the pensioner and thus reduce the increase in the disposable income of the pensioner. In addition, it is proposed to modify the additional parts of payments for the abandonment of farmers in line with the proposed change in the amount of national pension. The aim is to increase the purchasing power of low-income pensioners and, above all, to make their daily lives easier for the economy. This is a very good presentation from the government, you have to thank me when it's time to thank you. But the fact is that this change does not provide sufficient relief for pensioners who are struggling with financial problems. In addition to the low incomes of pensioners, the key source of problems is the constant increase in living costs. So if we really want to make things easier for this group, it will not happen by hitting the remaining pieces of the Mayan centenary, while at the same time energy taxes are being tightened, the price of electricity is going to go up in the clouds, the price tag for food and medicines will rise, and there will be no relief for the endless rise in the price of living through political solutions. This is not a sustainable equation, and pensioner poverty will increase considerably if we do not soon start to find rational solutions to problems. It is among pensioners that a particularly strong increase in the number of default marking should be a warning to the government that something needs to be done quickly. In the opinion of the Finns Party, comprehensive measures are needed to eliminate pensioner poverty. The economy of the elderly is often weighed down by high health costs. This problem point could be influenced by the impact of customer fee caps and the development of customer fee legislation. In the current model, municipalities have the opportunity to moderate customer charges, but this is not used as much as is necessary in practice. We must also remember the fact that the finances of many municipalities are in distress and there is no room for manoeuvre. The state must therefore take steps to develop the caps on customer fees in such a way that the economy of low-income pensioners can also withstand the burden of payment better than at present. Mr President! The purchasing power of pensioners could also be increased and livelihoods promoted by restoring the so-called mid-term index to occupational pensions for a proportion below 1500 euros. This would bring relief to many low - income pensioners. I believe that the reforms proposed by the members of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health of the People's Republic of Finland in their objection to the ceiling on customer fees and the improvement of the financial situation of pensioners are very good for the government. Mr Juvonen has already spoken many times on this issue, and there is still at least one to come, which means that we are going to have a heavy hearing. On the issue of non-payment labelling: this means that they are also on the increase in the case of pensioners. Similarly, it is very alarming that there are increasing numbers of low-income pensioners in bread queues, especially women — in Finland, in the bread line. They have been, pensioners, builders of our well-being, and the fact that we are on bread lines, that the money is not enough, feels really bad. Now that I have also mentioned the issue of non-payment marking in the case of pensioners, I am still taking advantage of the fact that I have a discussion initiative here in the bag. It deals with the problems of debt, i.e. a wide-ranging debate on everything related to debt, enforcement, default marking. So if the representatives here have not yet signed, then it would be desirable for you to sign. It's an important issue to discuss. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u151	Mr President! The representative Elomaa, in his recent speech, very strongly highlighted the problem of pensioner poverty and raised one phenomenon, the bread queues, which is a black spot in the Finnish welfare society at the moment. The exact figure is that 40% of the customers of bread queues are currently pensioners, and it is the largest group of users of bread queues. It is larger than the unemployed, students or other socio-economic groups who use bread lines. The bread queues and, above all, the pensioners in the bread line tell us that someone is rotting in our pension system. The basic pension was to guarantee people basic income. That's the starting point, and if we get into the bread line, there's something wrong. In this respect, Mr Elomaa is right. Instead, I was surprised that, although you said quite correctly in your speech, there is a need for a comprehensive programme to tackle pensioners' poverty, and you thanked me for this bill which has now come here regarding the withdrawal of national pensions and guaranteed pensions, why do you not thank the government programme for that? It is the first comprehensive programme to tackle pensioner poverty, which has been made in Finland for a quarter of a century. The government's programme for the elderly deserves a great deal of gratitude and strong support and support from the opposition. I have already listed those objectives in my previous speech and I will not go through them. Now, for the first time, we have a comprehensive programme, and this improvement in guaranteed pensions and national pensions is one part of it — a small step, one part, because it obviously has a bigger step to follow. I would also like to correct some other comments here. I was surprised to hear Mr Laiho’s speech when he reasoned with these words: ‘a pension paid with a fulltime job must not exceed a guarantee pension or a national pension’. In a way, it does not at all understand these concepts at all. When we talk about the old-age pension, which is what this is all about, then the earnings-related pension is the basic pension we have. The only statutory old-age pension we have is therefore an occupational pension. 98% of people over the age of 65 receive an occupational pension, as has been said. It's the basic pension. If, due to short working careers, earnings-related pension remains very small, i.e. if a short working career leads to a low pension, then we have basic security in the form of a national pension — and in the form of a guarantee pension — which improves the fact that it does not remain at an excessive level, and that is what this initiative is now seeking to safeguard. So in no way are they conflicting elements. In this case, the national pension is only a basic guarantee which comes on top of it if it is a matter of very small occupational pensions. When we talk about national pensions, it must be said to Mrs Juvonen when you pointed out that there are elderly people, women in particular, who are receiving full national pensions. That is correct, but now I use a little strong expression when I say that it is a very, very diminishing resource among those who receive their full national pension, for natural reasons, because there are 80,000 under 65-year-olds among 100,000 full national pensions or guaranteed pensions. There are about twenty thousand, in fact 24,000 quite precisely, who are over 65 years old. In practice, they are all over the age of 85, a significant proportion even over the age of 90, and they are the majority of women working in agriculture who have not actually been involved in working life — also a hugely vulnerable group that definitely needs its support, but it is a diminishing resource in the sense that it diminishes by several thousand per year, for a natural reason, and that is why the national pension system, in fact the guarantee pension scheme, is in fact only a disability pension. I am underlining it now because we have just had to have this debate. Mr Juvonen then spoke with a mockery, even though this initiative is good at what the government has done. I don't quite remember the exact wording, but you said "good-bye centenary." This was your design. At least in my own speech, I tried to point out, and you also quoted the fact that the Government Programme stated that ‘a three-pronged study will be launched on howto improve the position of the smallest workers in the occupational pension system’. Why do you say ‘good-bye to the centenary’,when going to the country of origin,the starting point
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u154	Mr President! I wonder for a long time whether I will take the floor because I do not usually have a debate about what has been done before and what has not been done. But now I would like to correct Mr Juvonen's speech a little bit, and I would also like to remember the past. Contrary to what Mr Juvonen said, the housing allowance is to be reviewed in order to ensure that the pension is fully increased to the beneficiaries of the pensioner's housing allowance. And then, in connection with this housing allowance, I would now like to remember so much of the past — if I remember correctly — that the Finns of Peru were going to abolish the entire housing allowance scheme for the pensioner and transfer it to the general housing allowance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u162	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your excellent contributions. That is what I say as an opposition representative, and we have an objection to this government proposal. The reason why, among other things, this intended surgery on housing allowance last season, which was considered, was cancelled, is found here in the places of the Finns of Peru. In other words, we prevented such an operation from taking place because we said it was unreasonable. And the fact that...
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u165	Madam President! Thank you to Mr Juvonen for his very constructive speech and for the good debate we have had. It is important that the government hears and listens to the good proposals of the opposition when we face pensioners' poverty. The Coalition Party calls for employment measures. They need to be found and made so that we can take care of everyone. The Finns have highlighted these problems in the customer fee caps, which need to be clarified, and the strengthening of the purchasing power of pensioners. I think they are good things. My parents are over 80 years old. From time to time, my mother still teaches porcelain painting at the Adult Education Centre. His pension is small because he wanted to take care of us wild boys at home and only then left for work outside the home. But he doesn't just work for money, he works for meaning. My father writes actively and continues to do jobs and volunteer work. Of course, the well-being of pensioners, older people, is a matter of livelihood, of the important things we have been talking about today and of the right services to which much has been referred, but also of meaningful activity and life. I'm flagging for active old age.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u166	Mr President! I'm sorry if my choice of words wasn't good, Congressman Juvonen. For me, however, the term "natural resource" is very, very positive, and I also read man as a natural resource created by the Creator. I, of all people, would like to have a very great deal of respect for our elderly population. It deserves all protection, support and care and also active inclusion in society. It's just a fact that people over 85, over 95 years old are... The natural cycle is such that the number of people who currently only receive national pensions that have not been covered by the earnings-related pension scheme during their working lives is shrinking and it is shrinking, and that is why I said that for these people who are over 65 years old, the number of people who have not been covered by the earnings-related pension scheme is falling drastically. That was my only reference, and there is a natural reason for it, and we share respect together. But instead, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen pointed out that he would not want to look back on the past and that with a stick in the eye that does it. But now that this comparison has been made and we are still in a situation where we have just had a change of government and the opposition is very happy — you do not necessarily do it — to blame the present government for the many things that exist in society right now, without this government having even had time to influence it, we still have to look at what that previous government did because it affects this real reality where we are. And that is why, if the President allows me, I would look back on the past in relation to today, because we have — great — representatives of the previous regime parties here on the ground. At least these representatives present, representatives Elomaa and Juvonen, have been in the process of adopting the Government Programme since the last elections in 2015. There was also a comprehensive programme for the elderly in that government programme. I referred to this comprehensive programme of the current government, which took on pensioner poverty. Then the government program went from a completely different perspective. Our country's weakness number one was, according to the previous government's programme — which is supported by Mr Juvonen and Mr Elomaa in this Chamber — the fact that Finland's economy and competitiveness are hampered by the ageing of the population, that is to say, the elderly are the main obstacle to the competitiveness of this national economy and the development of the economy. That is why you built an extensive operating list, not a comprehensive programme to help the elderly, i.e. surgery. This present government leaves an entirely different angle. According to the Government Programme, the elderly are considered to be a resource, a very straightforward entry: ‘Noagepeople do not like to get old. “ It is the starting point from which the present government is going to take action on these issues. And then this with a stick in your eye: What have you signed? What was the government programme when you signed the comprehensive programme for the elderly? 1) The increase in service charges, the net impact of 150 million, plus, comes from it. 2) Reduction in medical expenses, 150 million. 3) Reduced travel allowances for patients, rehabilitation workers, 20 million. 4) Reduction of senior service staff, 70 million. 5) Deterioration of old-age service plans, 10 million. 6) Freeze of national pensions, freezing of the national pension index, 355 million. 7) Reduction of the pension income reduction, 419 million. 8) Deterioration of the price index for social benefits, there is not even a sum. 9) Reduced housing allowance for pensioners, 123 million. (10) Pensions are not subject to a tax deduction on earned income, such as earned income. 11) On top of the whip: if a social contract is not reached, the index increase in occupational pensions will be halved. This was your program, which you have signed as MPs when the True Finns went to the government. This has been your program at that point, which has been passed. Thanks to the opposition, thanks to the opposition, which actively opposed these issues, some of them had to be withdrawn, the pressure became too high. I do not want it with a stick in the eye that is reminiscent of old people, but it is worth watching now that you are opening up in this situation, when we have a government programme that genuinely, comprehensively tackles a number of targets and seeks to improve the position of older people, as has been said, whether it is a question of care, whether it is a question of home services, it is an elderly ombudsman, it is a question of targeted health checks with retired people. There are thousands of new doctors, one week without urgent care, and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u169	Mr President! Indeed, the elderly are behind our welfare state, and they have given it to us, and we can now enjoy those fruits. Thanks to them. There are a few things I have to bring up. In fact, the Finns have been in the government for two years — it is a very short time. [KimmoKiljuen intermediate call] Otherwise, we have to say what has been discussed today: we thank — thank you — but it is still a very small act.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u172	Mr President! The old ones can always be remembered, and it may be worth remembering that, thanks to Sipilä's government, we are now in this situation and we can also afford to make those decisions in this government. Of course, these are not as big solutions and as large sums as some have promised, but I do not think that we should make too much promises in politics either. You have to remember that realism and really see what you can do. With the work that you're doing. The Sipilä government did, can now be implemented by this amount, and this is the right direction. Yle, for example, reduced the impact of Sipilä’s government. Significant increases in the guarantee pension were made in that government, and this led to a positive situation for many pensioners when compared to the beginning and end of the government’s term. So sometimes it is good to remember the old ones too, if you want to remember them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u173	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! There's two things I'm going to fix right now. One relates to the housing allowance for pensioners and the other to this care for the elderly and, among other things, to the nursing allowance, which you raised here. If we're going to dig with a stick right, deep down, we're going to have to go to 2013.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u176	Madam President! We're in the same boat. I don't have a past in this house, but I'm still looking back a little bit. My grandparents were very hardworking people, had to leave their homes behind the border and worked hard for generations. Retired persons are used to working for their bread, and many of them do not want to be at the mercy of others. That's why it's so hard to go to the bread line. It's a good thing we've been talking about bread lines here. I would like to join Mr Elomaa in thanking past generations and current pensioners and the elderly for the work they have done for us and for the country as a whole. Thank you, too, to all volunteers who help poor elderly people. This is poverty that we must tackle together. As we take care of food and housing and basic needs, we also need to involve older and older communities. Money doesn't help if you're lonely. You need a neighborhood, a family or a circle of friends or a community where you can participate, you need school grannies and pappas in schools and kindergartens. Many pensioners want to volunteer. Could we look at this in the future if we could also make up for it? Could the Kaarina of Reisjärvi's Köhänperä pay a little bit to take care of the neighbor Ellis, who is even worse but wants to live in the village surrounded by close people and friends?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u177	Mr President! A number of speakers have pointed out that during the last term of government, for example, there was no real room for improving people's basic income, including pensions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u180	Mr President! First of all, I really want to thank you very sincerely for this debate here. This has been a good conversation in the sense that there has been such an atmosphere of appreciation for each other all the time. Although we have disagreed, we have listened to each other and wanted to understand the other and take this discussion forward. It does not always happen in this Chamber. Since there is such a good feeling in this debate, it is worth giving thanks to all participants. But then I would have something for Mr Juvonen that I wish we could sometimes look outside this Chamber, because this is probably not going to be resolved today. I have listened to you before, and I wonder what you mean by saying that these quality recommendations were weakened in 2013 because, in fact, sometimes, I checked this situation in relation to this debate, the quality recommendations in 2008 and 2013 do have the same minimum staff measurements. In other words, in the long-term care of the wards of the health centre, the nurse’s size is between 0.6 and 0.7 according to the quality recommendation. But then in 2013 such an example of good care dimension was removed from the quality recommendation, because, as we well know — carers when we both are — that definition of good care is always relative to the care of the customer, and because of this vagueness this example of good care dimension was removed. But the minimum size under which you can't go is different. And in my opinion, it was not changed at the time, it was 0,6 to 0,7. This minimum measure is now the one that protects people's fundamental rights in a safe and decent life when they are dependent on care. I have been thinking a little about this before, that we should probably look at these documents sometime outside this Chamber, that is why this difference is so important. As far as I can tell, that dimension was not changed. In 2013, it was also in long-term care from 0.6 to 0.7.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u181	Mr President! There are a few more things I'd like to raise with regard to senior citizens. When it comes to income support, it is true that older people are often of the kind that, even if they have income support, they do not in principle apply for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u184	Madam President! In 2013, 24-hour care in the quality recommendation was lowered to 0.5, which is where it was done and found there. If you compare the quality recommendation for services for the elderly between 2008 and 2013, then what came into force in summer 2013, July, was calculated to 0.5. But since then, there have been many other things that have been done. After all, we're losing the old people's homes, and we're losing that long-term care. These long-term care facilities have been systematically reduced year after year. More and more people are being cared for there in their own home, and we no longer have the so - called long - term care, but it is the 24 - day care, and it is 0.5. After all, nothing has prevented operators from using a higher dimension, because it has been a kind of recommendation there. We should always go according to what is the real need for treatment. It could be 0.8, if you feel it. It would be good if those places where there is a higher dimension at the moment did not go down to the 0.5, at least, but kept as high as possible. And then, too, if there were special situations, such as hospice care, there would be more staff. But we can look at this in private with Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen in such a way as to make it clear that we are talking about the same things.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u186	Madam President! When we talk about the smallest pensions, we often forget about the parents and housewives who have taken care of their children at home. The decision to care for a child at home is influenced by many things. If there are many children of different ages in the family, there are also many different needs. If one of the children is disabled or ill, it is very natural for one parent to stay home and another to work outside the home. The position of the centre and my own view is that families should continue to be allowed to decide for themselves how to care for their children, and it is important that in future we can contribute to important early childhood education on a part-time basis to support these families. As regards pensions, pensions for housewives and domestic parents should be considered in the forthcoming reform of social welfare and social security services that this would not be the case in the future. Thank you for this constructive debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-06-ps-59.u187	Mr President! Representative Elomaa also highlighted the role of income support customers, and especially those aged over 65, in this respect. According to social services and Kela's calculations, the situation is really similar to that that income support expenditure would be 50 per cent higher for over 65-year-olds if they used what they are entitled to. The third part will not be used, and this is the real situation. There's a lot of reasons. One may be that people are ignorant, but the equally central reason is that people do not dare. In some way, elderly people feel that I have to manage on my own, and they are afraid to go to the livelihood hatch, so to speak. People should be able to be informed and also freed from this kind of uncertainty and from building an unnecessary problem, from making their own lives difficult. But of course you are quite right, as everyone has been right about this, that a more effective and better way is, of course, to secure pension security to the level that there is no need to go to the income window. That's the right way. That is the way in which the government is now choosing to increase this guarantee pension and national pension, and there will be an extension, of course, and it must be. I too would like to thank all colleagues for this debate. Yes, I think that Finnish pensioners and elderly people deserve that Parliament should debate in this very tone, in this way the arguments. We have differences of perspective, and it is good to point these out, but let us try to keep the quality of the debate. — — — — Thank you, colleagues.
