ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. Up to 60 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u2	Mr President! The discussion of the report of the Chancellor of Justice provided for in the Constitution in Parliament will enable dialogue on the implementation of fundamental and human rights and the laws of Parliament in this Chamber and the transmission of the findings of the day-to-day exercise of justice to the legislator. This year, the Chancellor of Justice's report will be compiled on the theme of participation. As usual, the report begins with the speeches made by the Chancellor of Justice and the Deputy Chancellor of Justice. The theme of my speech is inclusion and language. Fundamental rights are the rights of all, not just of a particular group. Understandable language is a necessary prerequisite for social inclusion. The foreign language, let alone the lack of linguistic rights, prevents inclusion, good governance and legal security. The language of the administration should not make things difficult, and everyone should be able to understand the overall picture of their own affairs as well as the issues that are the subject of public decision-making. This is only possible if the language is understandable. We need to improve the implementation of linguistic rights. In practice, there is not enough information or services available in Swedish. The same applies to the Sámi language. The use of both national languages and, in particular, the understanding of the language of the legal arguments is a very important part of a good way of drafting the law. The software code is becoming the language of administration and judicial decision-making. Administration is automated at a rapid pace, and automatic decision-making should always be translated and can be explained in man’s understandable language. In the future, the major problem of both language and inclusion is whether we can explain the automatic procedures in such a way that people understand them. In addition to the new general legislation, this requires a proactive influence on the information systems of administration and public services. In his speech, Deputy Chancellor of Justice Mikko Puumalainen discusses the results of his planned monitoring and inspection missions. The systematic and systematic monitoring visit procedure reflects the structural approach taken by the Chancellor of Justice in the field of law enforcement. We will draw attention to issues that can prevent the consistent and effective implementation of fundamental and human rights and other rights. Oversight visits, for example, in law enforcement authorities and administrative courts, as well as contacts with ministers, have resulted in many corrections to the problems. Flexibility in resource allocation has been increased, management has been improved and resources have also been increased. The adequacy of resources is, according to our findings, only one factor in processing delays. Digitalisation is a great opportunity to improve both governance and legal security. It will enable public services to better respond to the needs of people and society. At the same time, however, care should be taken for those who do not keep up with digital development. Good administration belongs to people other than those with digital skills. In this respect, there are significant gaps in the implementation of the structural service principle in the various administrative sectors. Many parents have problems with the age limit for e-Omanta service in healthcare, where parents of children aged 10 or over have never been able to see the recipes and health information of the child in custody. The information systems provided by the Employment and Economic Development Offices (TE Offices) have not necessarily provided customers with the opportunity to manage their affairs smoothly enough. Similarly, there has been unnecessary difficulty in using mobile services. In the context of the reforms of the employment services and the legislation on unemployment security, there is a need to address these pain spots and the customer service of the TE services in general. Similarly, the early implementation of data protection in public administration has become more important. In line with the views of the Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Chancellor of Justice has strongly developed preliminary regulatory control. There is a section on the monitoring of legislative reforms in the current report. At the same time, the statements made by the Chancellor of Justice are the monitoring of compliance with the Constitution and good lawmaking, and at the beginning of last year we started to step up the preliminary control of legislative proposals by asking for the drafts of the Government's proposals to be revised more closely at the end of the legislative process, in order to ensure more comprehensively that the Government's proposals for decision should not be made from the point of view of law enforcement. At the pre-decision stage, the Minister will be better placed to make the necessary corrections to the proposals if there is any reason to do so. The effectiveness of the preliminary audit is further enhanced by the fact that the review of the Government's agendas also monitors the taking into account of these observations and feedbacks. A total of 58 ex-ante audits were carried out last year, i.e. 18% of government proposals made in recent Parliaments, and 93 statutory opinions were issued, which is more than a third more than in the previous year. In addition, experts from the Attorney General’s Office have also been involved in the development of lawmaking and its management, including the preparation of guidelines for the preparation of new government proposals, namely HELO guidelines. This is likely to be seen as better performances here in Parliament in the future. However, the responsibility for drafting the law rests, of course, with the minister and the Government concerned, not with the Chancellor of Justice. The development of the division of duties between the Chancellor of Justice and the Parliamentary Ombudsman has progressed very well in cooperation with the Ombudsman. A working group set up by the Ministry of Justice,in which both the Chancellor of Justice and the Ombudsman have participated, reports on the ‘Division of the tasks of the Supreme Judicial Supervisors’contributes to the development of an excellent basis for the supervision of Finnish law,in order to respond better to the Mr President! Supreme law enforcement is impressive. For example, with regard to the supervision of child protection by regional government agencies, the Ministry of Finance has provided the Deputy Chancellor of Justice with a report stating that, as a result of our inspections and judicial enforcement activities, more resources have been allocated to regional government agencies on a permanent basis, intensified monitoring and renewed management models in such a way that there has been more room for preventive guidance. In addition to self-monitoring, more extensive social and health care needs effective and competent regulatory supervision. The workload in the Attorney General's office has increased. In particular, there has been an increase in the number of cases involving lawyers and public legal advisers and authorised legal advisers, more than 10% — we had 739 of them last year. Despite this increase in workload, we have managed to maintain reasonable processing times. In general, we will be able to process all complaints within a year. The median treatment time was 5.5 weeks and the mean time was 10.7% weeks. These measures have resulted in 13% of all complaints. The increase in workload and the structural aspect of control, which tackles major problems, will then lead us to find it difficult to cope properly with the tasks and expectations of society, without additional resources. The Chancellor of Justice has a wide-ranging perspective on the implementation of legal certainty, through pre-emptive regulatory supervision, judicial judicial review and the whole of legal supervision. It is very important to respect the independence of the courts in the area of judicial judicial review — and, of course, there is a need to deal with the obvious errors that have violated the rights of the individual afterwards. Our supervision has highlighted the problems of the current judicial process of performance steering, and in this respect the expectations of the judiciary for a new one. The Office of the Court of Justice is, therefore, under the guidance of the resources. For our part, in our constitutional judicial review of legality, we strive to pay attention to the conditions for the courts and judges to carry out their duties independently. This should be a matter for society as a whole. Mr President! With these e-mails, I will submit the report of the Chancellor of Justice for 2018 to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u3	Thank you for the introduction. — Then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u4	Madam President! Thank you to the Chancellor of Justice for the presentation and for this report. I will raise the issue of anti-corruption. In external evaluations, Finland is not one of the least corrupt countries because there is no corruption here; Finland has been estimated to be a slightly corrupt country because Finland is smart, especially at municipal level. It is, as the Chancellor of Justice said, a major sociological problem. The so-called "good brother" networks share values, motives and objectives that differ from the interests of the Community as a whole. For an outsider, this is reflected in the legitimate but inexplicable and even absurd way of taking official decisions on matters where not all interests are public. Mr President! The central component of municipal corruption is the extensive use of companies. This is something that the Attorney General has also drawn attention to. The company interface ensures that the information critically needed by the municipality owner does not pass from the company to the ownership's political decision-making bodies, especially in the event of problems. The principle of publicity would be easy to implement already in municipal companies, for example by means of articles of association. However, this is not done in practice because corruption needs places to hide. There are also problems with the audits of the Groups. Although the audit firm is the same for the municipality and its group companies, the auditors may be different persons. These persons are not linked and the public auditor does not audit or acquire evidence from the group companies. He's got enough company audit reports for him. In practice, the responsibility of those responsible for municipal companies is like an empty letter. Mr President! These are structures which municipalities will not voluntarily change with just ethical standards. Legislation is needed to guide the transparency and accountability of municipal group companies in the right direction. The legislation should therefore be amended, for example, so that companies with more than half of the control or stock held by the general government should comply with the Publicity Act, such as the General Government. In addition to ethical standards and laws, the key instrument for eradicating corruption is the risk of being caught and the level of criminal responsibility is sufficiently high. That is also what the Chancellor of Justice is paying attention to. It is therefore paradoxical that it is the Office of the Chancellor of Justice which, as a rule, does not deal with complaints relating to a case over two years old. In the field of corruption, it may take a very long time to manifest inappropriate behaviour and its consequences. This rule should therefore be clarified, for example, so that a complaint must be lodged within a time limit after the complainant has been informed. Legal changes are also needed to facilitate the detection of irregularities, as there is still no legislation in Finland that protects whistleblowers. It is particularly difficult and risky to reveal corruption directly or through the media. We therefore also need a Whistleblower law for anti-corruption work, which, fortunately, will soon come. Mr President! The EU will soon adopt new EU-wide rules to protect whistleblowers. The Commission encourages Member States to apply even more stringent rules than the minimum standards laid down in the rules and also to adopt comprehensive provisions to protect whistleblowers. In order to eradicate corruption, it is therefore of the utmost importance that Finland should act more rigorously on this issue than will be required by future EU minimum rules. It is naive to imagine that ethical standards would guide those who seek corruption. On the other hand, it is permissible to require ethical standards to guide the legislator. The remarks of the Chancellor of Justice and the EU's rules on the protection of whistleblowers therefore give the government a very good list of work to take drastic measures to overcome corruption.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u5	Madam President! Thank you to the Attorney General for this report, it is always interesting to read these. You also mentioned the challenges you have faced with in the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, and I am now looking forward to the progress of this work in terms of clarifying the division of duties between the Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice in some respects so that there is no duplication of tasks. I hope that this will also help your work in focusing on those issues that require more attention. I will take a few points from this comprehensive, good report myself: In that speech, the Chancellor of Justice also raised the issue of time limits and the fact that sufficient resources are only one factor in the delays in processing. This is true, and you argued that good management and, for example, the division of labour between people are important. But, on the other hand, there is a feeling that it is forgotten that these are always individual solutions and that it requires a person to work for them. Basically, if one thought that the machine could solve all the tasks and enter certain parameters and always produce the same result, then efficiency could always be increased. But that is not the case. We must not forget the people who work there in the offices and courts. I myself have served as an official at the Local Register Office as rapporteur and judge and rapporteur in court and insurance law, among other things, and the workload is very variable in terms of content, the workload is increasing. It is good to note that we in this Parliament always give additional tasks and often the government's proposal states that this proposal has no resource implications, but everyone understands that if there are more tasks, it will take more time, at least if we demand some quality from these tasks, in that sense this must not be forgotten. I am here for the fifth year now and I always try to remind you that, through these resources, from the pre-trial investigation authority to that prison, we must be in good shape so that we can expect to have the rule of law that we often want to talk about and which is very important. It is also worth recalling, as you say here on page 21, that if there is a lot of turnover and if you still think that work is hard and there is uncertainty and temporary employment, it is difficult to obtain qualified workers. This may be a challenge for us in the future if, for example, we have too much work in the courts and people are burdened there under work, where we can get qualified decision-makers. It's not always so obvious. Then, on page 20, you mention the Administrative Law and the fact that one of the recent changes in administrative law has been a significant increase in asylum complaints and, in the same way, as immigration has increased, all foreign affairs have increased in all administrative courts. You say here that the processing times are indicative of the impact of significant external changes. This is an external influence on the authorities that they cannot influence. They're acting in accordance with the laws we've passed. But in this Chamber, and at our minister's EU tables, we can influence, among other things, what kind of immigration policy we are doing. This is not entirely external, but we can influence it. Then, as a final point, I would like to point out that I would like the Chancellor of Justice to take more decisions of principle and very important preliminary rulings on his own initiative, which are spoken in the media. I often understand that we are waiting for a complaint from a citizen, but I think that would be a great thing and would show you, as the supreme guardian of the law, an interest in taking the lead in difficult social matters. As an example, I would like to highlight an issue which has recently been widely spoken in the media and where the active and visible political actor of the Greens is a person who is currently a preliminary investigation authority in a case where he examines the speeches of three Members of Parliament, speeches relating to political activities. At least personally, I could legitimately ask whether this person's impartiality has been compromised for other specific reasons, as stated in Article 8(1)(7) of the Pre-trial Code. I think this is quite an important point, and I made an announcement about it. I did not get any response and I understand that you are not taking a stand on this particular issue, but these are the kind of issues that should be addressed. This obstacle is not going to be resolved anywhere at the moment. If this is progressing towards a person, then the court will not go into the matter of whether the preliminary investigation authority has been an obstacle, or if the matter were to proceed here to the Chamber of Parliament with regard to the speeches he has spoken in this Chamber, then the Constitutional Committee, which would give an opinion on this matter, would, in my opinion, take any view that there might be some kind of obstacle in the investigation. This seems to me to be a very important preliminary ruling, and in fact it would be in the interest of all the parties involved, including this official, to have this matter examined, because there is now a wide range of discussions on this and it also affects the credibility of the preliminary investigation authority and the credibility of the judicial system as a whole. It might be good for the Chancellor of Justice to raise this type of issue. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u6	Madam President! Good chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen and others present! Many interesting things could be raised from this book and also from the presentation by the Chancellor of Justice and also from the cases that have been more public, including the way the Chancellor of Justice has gone through the debate on the supposed political personal history of people, what is hate speech or how different actors and their political history can be described, for example, whether a former Communist can be called a former Communist or whether it is offensive or hate speech. But I will not go into this point further, but I will go to the fact that this report by the Chancellor of Justice has gone through quite extensively, explained your statements on the legislative proposals in preparation. On page 53, there is a large number of these statements, and I myself draw attention to a very recent consideration of the increased threat to the security of prisons. In fact, all these days there have been reports on the news and I myself have also received concerns from several jailers about the way in which the security situation in our prisons has changed. There are, in fact, two important reasons for this: one, stronger gangbanging of prisoners and the other, radicalisation in prisons. These two pose a very serious security threat at the moment in prisons, they pose a security threat to our prisoners, to other prisoners, but what is even more serious in my opinion, including the prison guards and other staff who work there. In fact, there is also a proposal at the moment to increase camera surveillance, listening and, for example, financial control to reduce this threat to security in prisons, and also to increase the efficiency of the provision of information to the police. This proposal has been the subject of statements, and the Chancellor of Justice has also made his own statement with the Ombudsman, among other things, and this proposal received quite a lot of understanding but also a lot of criticism. Personally, I am surprised at the criticism that it is precisely from the point of view of income that we now feel that certain rights of prisoners or restrictions on them take precedence over the safety and guarantee of workers. This motion was criticised specifically for trampling on the fundamental rights of prisoners, but less attention was paid to the concerns of prison guards who are currently working in prisons, among others. This proposal would like to better monitor the use of, for example, cards for prisoners, the Mastercards, because there is a clear fear that these cards could be used for money laundering and other criminal activities, and would like to limit the fact that cards are not used for the free use of prisoners, but would continue to be used only in those situations when the card is used there for payment in prison. So in prison they do not want to give the card to the prisoners in the future, and in some way I personally understand that this would make sense. This would, in fact, make sense even to eliminate the gangbanging, for when cards were issued to them with free financial transport, it would be a risk of money laundering, but also a risk that prisoners might become increasingly subject to threats and pressure from other prisoners. The proposal also highlights the possibility of listening, which is also considered to be a violation of the fundamental rights of prisoners, but when it comes to the exchange of information between the prison authorities and the police, to which the Chancellor of Justice has also drawn attention. This would mean that in future the prison could, on its own initiative, inform the police and other pre-trial investigation authorities of certain things, things that it can now only hand over on request. The problem at the moment is precisely how the police can ask if the police do not know what they are asking for. I personally would see that this exchange of information here would strengthen security, not only within prisons, but also the risk of gangbanging and the risk that has become worse at the moment. The police have also called for direct access, given it great importance to these entities, and this is precisely what Mr Pöysti has expressed doubts about in the proposal. Mr President! I personally hope, however, that we will give priority to the safety of the prison guards, the workers in this big project now too, and we will be prepared to restrict certain rights of prisoners if we have the situation we have today in our prisons.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u7	Madam President! I would like to thank the Chancellor of Justice for a good introduction and a very interesting report. This report opens up a lot of subjects for discussion, and in this context I could raise a great many points, but I am now going to touch on a couple of issues. First of all, Deputy Attorney General Mikko Puumalainen’s supervisory visits in 2018 focused on child protection and asylum complaints — both topical issues. It is reported that 18 control visits were carried out, mainly to the Regional State Administrative Agencies, administrative rights and municipalities. After all, child welfare customers are one of the most vulnerable groups of people and it is therefore essential to ensure that the administration and service providers succeed in child protection work and that the law is implemented. In this regard, I drew attention to the conclusion that the Deputy Chancellor of Justice had a worrying picture of the situation and position of the clients of child welfare. I think that this is the kind of observation that we should take seriously in this Chamber, starting from that basic municipal work with families and vulnerable children. We are already aware of the starting point that the number of child protection workers is too low in relation to needs, and I hope that we will also hear positive news about the direction of the government that this serious consideration will indeed be given to. The second site concerned these asylum complaints, which, as a result of the significant increase in the number of asylum seekers in 2015, are a great deal. It is a rather heterogeneous group, but I drew attention to the fact that it is not only a matter of customer numbers, but also, for example, a question of getting to know a whole new, demanding group of issues in the courts. This has certainly been a problem since the work of the Finnish Immigration Service and also since the way in which these have been dealt with by administrative rights. I myself have taken a closer look at a few cases where I have wondered that the asylum seeker has come to a negative decision at all these courts, both in the decisions of the Finnish Immigration Service and later on, precisely in those situations where the conversion of these Afghan asylum seekers from Islam into Christianity has taken place in Finland. What these decisions have been based on, I think, tells us that we do not fully understand the situation that exists in these countries of origin and in which no more than we can say as a professed Christian, we simply cannot act as an open - minded Christian. Afghanistan is a country where there are no churches or congregations of any kind in which you can openly operate. In my opinion, it is a very cynical starting point and thinking of categorically interpreting that these people are dealing with a kind of asylum shopping or pretending to be this conversion or religious conviction. I myself know these people closely, and that is why I am concerned about this. But then, Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the fact that here on page 49 we are talking about an issue which was discussed quite a lot in this Chamber in 2018, namely the complaint against Foreign Minister Timo Soini. This was a legitimate debate of confidence and a vote in this Chamber, and this was related to the fact that the Foreign Minister, on his mission in Canada, took part in his spare time in Catholic Vigilia, where a candle was lit to commemorate the victims of abortion. The Chancellor of Justice here, in response to this complaint, states that freedom of religion and freedom of speech also belong to the Minister of Foreign Affairs – otherwise I myself have received this corresponding liberating statement from the High Commissioner myself in 2013 when I was Minister of the Interior. But then it is also stated here that the Chancellor of Justice considers it problematic that a member of the Government and the Foreign Minister present positions contrary to Finland's foreign policy line. And I am surprised when it is said here that Finland is acting in foreign and security policy to promote women's and girls' rights and their sexual and reproductive health. Well, that's right, and I agree with that myself. Still, I'm against abortion. I believe that abortion is not part of women's and girls' rights, nor is it part of sexual and reproductive health, but it also violates the rights of these baby girls and young children growing up in the womb. Mr President, in the report on foreign and security policy we have not even taken a position on abortion, so I am surprised at this. And then I want to say it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u8	Let's stick to these time limits that have been agreed together.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u9	Mr President! Good chancellor! In my speech, I will focus on two questions. A huge amount of feedback today is given on how the progress of digitalisation and digital society will affect everyday life. When we talk about accessibility, we talk about the need for everyone to have equal rights to access services. We come to the situation that, in a digitalizing Finland, not everyone is in an equal position. Not all people have access to the tools available to the employment services of banking services, Kela, the tax authorities, the police. I am very pleased that the Chancellor of Justice has also drawn attention to these issues in his own report, but I hope that the way in which people are involved in our system and how the rights and accessibility of minorities will also be safeguarded as this digital society progresses. Of course, senior citizens in particular have hopes that there will be more joint offices where these services can be used in cooperation with operators. Of course, the resources of libraries are specifically asked. Libraries organise these places in many places, but not all regions have the same potential for resources, leaving specific advisory activities in a regionally unequal position. The Constitution is, of course, unambiguous in the sense that we must be able to build systems in which the Constitution is respected and every citizen will receive appropriate services and that lack of computer skills or skills must not prevent us, not to mention local and regional differentiation in these services. The second question, which concerns all of us in the decision-making process, seems to me to be very serious. On page 42, there is talk of lawmaking law enforcement. I hope that each of us has learned from the major reforms of the last decade and that, if anything is taken up, whether it be transport policy, social and health policy, tax policy, change in support policy, education policy in a broad picture, then we would have the courage to commit ourselves to long-term work in an over-parliamentary manner and to do so too much time, at least in the future, if we do not have to read the Chancellor of Justice's assessment that the timetables have been too tight and that the consultation has been formal and the implementation and application aspect has been lacking, or knowledge has been unevenly divided and that the preparation of the law by the ministries has not been adequately supported. In my opinion, it is an unsustainable development if democracy goes in the direction that we are no longer able to create a legal basis for our drafting of the law, that it will also stand up to the legal assessment of the Chancellor of Justice. Here, Mr President, the most important.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u10	Mr President! I thank the Chancellor of Justice for a very good and comprehensive report. I would like to raise one point which I welcome, and it is a working group on combining the duties of the Parliamentary Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice, or whatever it is called. We've been talking about this for a long time. It is perfectly justified and I really hope that we can make good progress here. I know, and I can say from my own point of view, when I think that dozens of complaints have been made in the previous work, that, no matter how it is, the same complainants made complaints to both the Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice. That doesn't make any sense at all. I know that they were then combined, but it certainly always causes more work. It can be said that some professional complainants employ authorities and also law enforcement agencies all the time. In other words, this would also be in favour of closer cooperation, or even a combination of these agencies. Similarly, in my previous life — that was a long time ago, but let us remember history — the Ombudsman first carried out an inspection, a routine inspection, there was no doubt, and when it took a few months, the Chancellor of Justice carried out an inspection. Well, the cleanest papers were cleared up, but this already shows that perhaps there would be more power in this cooperation. One of the things that I would like to see developed with you is how the supervision of our authorities in those unfortunate cases looks outwards. Last season, the Justice Minister, Mr Häkkänen, was mandated by the Court of Justice, which is a great thing because it was claimed — I am not saying that this is happening, but it seemed externally — that the courts are under political control. Of course, that is not true, but it looked like this in the eyes of an external observer. It could now be said that, in our case of pre-trial or prosecution proceedings, we have tried to separate ourselves quite rightly. If the police are suspected of committing a crime, the prosecution will lead the investigation. But then there are authorities such as the prosecutor, that is, in all cases the prosecution is not by some outside party but, well, by another prosecutor of the same organisation. I am not saying that they are making any wrong decisions and I am not saying that they are making biased decisions, but it does not look good on the outside, it does not give the people confidence. I know that, in some cases, the Chancellor of Justice's Office takes the matter at its own discretion, and I believe that this should be the case more and more in order to make all the official activities outwards appear to be neutral and intelligible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u11	Madam President! Two things. We all know that, for several years now, court proceedings have been extended to a great deal of work, and one of the reasons for this increase in workload is that today even small cases, such as successions, can be appealed for a very long time. For example, I know of a case in which, for more than ten years, the inheritance of a few tens of thousands of euros was brought to justice, with the result that the inheritance had almost been eaten up and that all the parties were left to the ground before the matter was brought to an end. I therefore ask: how can the smallest and least-valued cases be resolved by lighter means? I know that the possibility of conciliation has been increased, but it is not always accepted by the parties. Is there any other way? The second point I would like to raise is not from the Chancellor of Justice's report yet last year, but perhaps in the future - at least I did not find it - it relates to thyroid patients who have recently been very active in their own treatment and medication. They experience injustice about what medicines they are entitled to, what medicines doctors are allowed to give and what they are not and how Valvira treats doctors. I would therefore like to see public information, now that the Chancellor of Justice is here, on how these thyroid patients should take their case forward, so that they can find justice and find out whether Valvira is acting within the limits of its own mandate or not. What are their chances?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u12	Madam President! Mrs Ranne raised corruption at the beginning, and it is good that she did, it is important, and this report by the Chancellor of Justice deals with it on page 150. First of all, of course, when it comes to public bodies and their greater transparency, it is always good to remember that, for example, the law on limited liability companies does not in itself prevent a public limited liability company from telling more about what is happening in that company, but if we want not to act so pro-publicly, then we can go behind the law on limited liability companies and say that this is now there in the limited liability company and that we can talk more about it. The Government Programme contains the entry ‘to update the need to update the Publicity Act ‘and’to assess the extension of In a close or For example, general government I think it is very good that the Government Programme now has a record in this direction and that the Chancellor of Justice has said the same thing in his report, and although I am a representative of the opposition party, I do support the Government Programme and the views of the Chancellor of Justice in this respect and hope that this will progress. Next to Mr Tolvanen, he spoke of trust and good governance. It is precisely so that, if we do not have confidence in the administration, then we will not really have much to do with good governance. Trust either exists or does not exist, it is difficult to find such a halfway point in it. And what that decision-making looks like is also important: For example, in my province there are bad examples of companies owned by municipalities. We constantly go behind the law on limited liability companies, they say we can't tell them, but let's forget that it's a single currency. With taxpayers’ money, with municipal money, these limited companies — or, in practice, do not really spin, make a loss — and they do not intend to get out of it. In this respect, I hope that the government will make a good presentation following the record of the Government Programme and the views of the Chancellor of Justice in the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u13	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the Chancellor of Justice for presenting a comprehensive report. I'm sure there's a lot to discuss. Here, too, the report has been extensively reviewed. In fact, I would like to draw attention to two points. In his own speech, Mr Kyllönen drew attention to the equality of citizens in this digital society. However, the information society is expanding and digitalisation is increasing. How is the availability of services available throughout Finland, for all people and for all age groups? Communications are still not everywhere. I would also like to hear further comments from the Attorney General. The second point I would like to raise is actually raised on the first pages of this report, and that is that the language of the administration must not make things difficult. Much is said about how the law is written, how the law is interpreted, whether it is a so-called baton language, how to be able to demand a clear, factual and understandable language to be there in the legal text. In this own report, the Chancellor of Justice has drawn attention to this, among other things, by the fact that an understandable language is also part of a good way of drafting the law. The direct quotation is: ‘The preparation of the law should contribute to the management and relevance of the number of And:‘The major obstacles are the scarcity of resources, which is why the I would like to The legal texts themselves will then be extensive.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u14	Madam President! In his excellent speech here, Mr Heinonen drew attention to the statements made by the Chancellor of Justice and also by the Ombudsman concerning the strengthening of the control of prisoners in prisons and closer cooperation between prisons and police and the fact that both the Chancellor of Justice and the Ombudsman have seen problems with regard to the fundamental and human rights of the toughest and most violent criminals to be monitored. This gives rise to a slight extension of this reflection to the question of whose fundamental and human rights are monitored. The answer is, of course, that all citizens, and that is quite right. But when our human rights thinking, and the European human rights thinking on a wider scale, assumes that these human rights can potentially be violated above all by the authorities, that is to say by the police and prison guards and prosecutors and so on, and that this risk to human rights is, above all, such a vertical one, from the authorities to the subjects here, I believe that the violations of the fundamental rights of citizens, such as life, but also life and health, security, which are not caused by the authorities, but by these criminals in particular. In other words, in addition to vertical control of human rights and fundamental rights, I would like to raise this horizontal aspect, which does not only highlight the rights of accused persons and offenders and prisoners in relation to police and prison authorities, but also takes into account, in these various reform projects and their approach, the point of view of the victim whose fundamental and human rights are not violated by the police or the guards or the authorities, but by the criminals, robbers who violate fundamental and human rights. For example, in view of this case, mentioned by Mr Heinonen, the current issue of increasing the control of prisoners, this increase is intended precisely to prevent other prisoners and prison guards from suffering the acts of violence, intimidation and other such acts of violence by these toughest criminals. — I'll take it from the toilet. [ The speaker moves to the podium] Madam President! In other words, in the light of the recent public debate and in other words, we know that organised crime — such as this United Brotherhood, an organized gang of criminals — is also organized in prisons, and in prisons it persecutes, harasss, forces by violence other prisoners and even guards to submit to their will, forces other prisoners who are able to get on vacation, bring illegal substances and prohibited goods to prisons. And they — in this case, for example, other prisoners who have the right to leave and other things — have rights, the right to security, the right to personal immunity, the right to health, do not infringe the jailers, do not offend the police, but do offend these other prisoners. And now, although I know that this is a more principled issue and there is no possibility for a seminar, I would like to hear from the Chancellor of Justice's point of view that, although this traditional human rights approach, from some time of enlightenment, has emphasised the rights of people vis-à-vis the authorities and the various authorities — who, the authorities and rulers, of course, in the old days, were totally unmistakably violating people's rights, then there was no knowledge of fundamental and human rights in the way that we are thinking today — even though this traditional fundamental and human rights approach is precisely about giving protection to the authorities, should it not be worth taking greater account of the fundamental rights of those who are not threatened by the authorities but are threatened by criminals. For example, when we consider the proposals for strengthening the control of prisoners and strengthening cooperation between the prisons and the police, of which you have also made your statement in the Attorney General's Office, would it not be worthwhile, in this case, for these prisoners, particularly these the toughest prisoners who are afraid there, to raise the rights of these other prisoners to be spared such threats and acts of violence and coercion, which are what these toughest criminals are taking up there, taking into account the fundamental and human rights of these people and also of the prison guards who work there? So the question for the Chancellor of Justice is this: how much do you think about such a horizontal threat, if you can say so, to fundamental and human rights and not just these vertical threats that come from the authorities?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u15	We have a common agreement that 60 minutes will be spent on this, and that time will be running out. Now I'm gonna ask you: There are two requests for the floor here, Mr Kauma, Mr Malm. Are you ready to give the floor for 1 minute? Otherwise, it's going to be there later. — In that case, Mr Kauma, 1 minute, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u16	Mr President! Legal protection as a whole is in a good state in Finland. Citizens have almost as much confidence in independent and impartial courts as the police and rescue services and the Defence Forces in this country. However, there are some problems, and one is that the costs of legal proceedings are going to rise to excessive costs for certain types of court cases, and the President of the Supreme Court, among other things, has taken a rather strong position on this a few weeks ago. Among other things, he put forward the option of setting up a billing cap on how much a particular case can pay to the person who raised it, because even legal protection insurance does not cover more than part of these costs, and there is a risk that people will not run their own rights if they fear that the situation will cause them to go bankrupt, especially in that case,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u17	Then, Congressman Malm, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u18	Madam Speaker! Thank you to Mrs Torniainen, who raised this language, which is very important, especially in the municipal and municipal decision-making areas. But the same subject also includes this artificial intelligence, which needs human control, and there has been reference to this code of programmes, which at some point hopefully will become an important working language of administration and justice. I would like to ask about this: should we also be prepared to take account of ethical issues here and in this area?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u19	Then I will give a reply to Attorney General Pöyst, please, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u20	Mr President! Valuable representatives have come to a large extent that not everything can be dealt with here, so I apologise for that and let us return to these. Thank you for the valuable aspects and questions and ideas. To sum up a few answers: Mrs Ranne raised the issue of the thematic issue of transparency and the fight against corruption, and yes, we have had a number of statements about the need for legislative action. They are not enough, of course, but we also need legislative measures. Mr Heinonen then wondered, and Mr Zyskowicz went on to say whether the Chancellor of Justice was only on the side of criminals — let the escalation be allowed. [Laughter] Mr Meren and several others then wished to see their own-initiative intervention. I take this very seriously for myself. In this context, however, I am not going to intervene in a particular matter which I have identified and which is going on, in accordance with the tripartite doctrine of the government. In fact, it has limited the possibility for the Chancellor of Justice to intervene specifically in the current case. I would also like to correct the view here — or Parliament itself has made such a change — that, at the beginning of October, a new law on the prosecution system will enter into force, whereby the prosecution's duties in the investigation of prosecutions, including assistant prosecutors, will be passed on to Parliament's Ombudsman and to us, which means that this matter is now coming to an external examination. And, yes, I warmly salute that task-sharing issue. In fact, there is little real duplication of work now, but it is divided, but we have a strong vision, the Ombudsman and we have to share more of those tasks, which will then allow us to focus more closely on matters. And now on this matter of lawmaking. We have had a very tangible effect on the new guidelines on short writing and rationalising and structuring work, that there is time to read the text, and we have visited the monitoring visits, discussions, all the ministries, and it has received good feedback on the efforts to guide the procedures in this respect. And then this thyroid theory. It is possible for us, through patient organisations or otherwise, to put that theory into the process. In this division of tasks, however, this may be a little more a matter for the Ombudsman. After all, in the field of child protection, we also looked at the supervision of the authorities, and the Ombudsman then examined those cases of child protection, and this inspection activity is also coordinated. Finally, I would like to draw attention to two points. These great issues of value are of course being discussed here, and we have also defended the freedom of expression of a politician. If you have a fact - based statement that someone has a background, you can say it, but you have hoped for that dignity. However, the position of the Minister for Foreign Affairs is somewhat different because he acts as a representative of the government — his position is somewhat different from that of the Minister for the Interior or the Minister for Justice, for example. The rest is read in our decision. In the end, it's a matter of court fees, legal security. That is the real problem. In civil matters, we do not have such a cost-effective procedure for a middle-class citizen to deal with his own business. This would require a number of measures. There's no such thing as a single cure for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u21	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u22	Madam President! I would like to begin by thanking the authors and signatories of this valuable citizens' initiative. Sexual crimes committed by immigrants raised much debate and justified anger in the winter and in the spring when the events in Oulu became public. In this context, it should be mentioned explicitly that they would never have come to the public without the involvement of individual citizens. The police only announced this when it was known to everyone, and the mainstream media reported that it had no choice to maintain its own face. However, there was nothing new about the events in Oulu. Immigrants, especially Muslim men, have been grossly overrepresented in sexual crime statistics for decades. In Finland, the most flagrantly over-represented nationalities are Iraqis, Afghans and Somalis, which are also among our most important non-working immigrant groups. This flagrant over-representation will not disappear, even if account is taken of age, socio-economic status and other underlying factors. And most importantly, the situation picture is much the same in all Western countries. Of course, a normal - minded person understands that such conduct is closely linked to the way women are valued and treated in these cultures. Often the perpetrators do not realize that they have done anything wrong. Nor do their own local communities condemn acts of violence. Rather, the victim, often even a little girl, is perceived as a seducer and an evildoer. Finnish sanctions do not have any deterrent effect on these people. Punishment is often conditional imprisonment — i.e. no punishment at all — or short unconditional imprisonment under hotel-like conditions. Damage compensation is of no importance because these people are largely unemployed or outside the labour force, in which case the compensation will be borne by the state, i.e. Finns. As stated in the bill, current legislation allows for the abolition and removal of residence permits as a result of serious crimes. However, as a rule, sexual offenders from Muslim countries are not expelled. This is, of course, due to the so-called overall consideration, which weighs, among other things, the criminal’s ties to Finland and the circumstances of the country of origin. On this point, I would like to refer to a specific case which raised a great deal of speech in due course. A man, Hussein, arrived in Finland as a refugee from Somalia in the early 1990s. In 93, he raped a 13-year-old girl in Tampere with a knife and was sentenced to less than three years in prison. In 95 — two months after its release — Hussein killed a 15-year-old girl and was sentenced to life imprisonment. In 2005, during a few hours of leave, he sexually abused a 4-year-old child. The Helsinki Court of Appeal decided to release Hussein in autumn 2016. However, it was already clear from the huge publicity that he could not be set on the loose. As a result, he was immediately detained on the day of his release, and in spring 2017, the Helsinki Police Department announced that Hussein had been removed from the country. The case shows that when there is real desire, the expulsion of criminals will be successful despite all family ties, the insecurity and resistance of the country of origin. In most cases, such a desire simply does not exist or does not exist. It is therefore appropriate to amend the law so that the ad hoc discretion of the authority and the court is reduced and the abolition of the residence permit becomes an automatic consequence of certain offences or offences of a certain degree of seriousness. The citizens' initiative is largely in line with the bill that I myself submitted to Parliament in October 2012, together with 13 other Finns. Some feel that expulsion of a criminal is a double punishment. Why should foreign crime be viewed differently from domestic crime? Well, there are a number of reasons for this, some of which are practical and some in principle. Firstly, as I said earlier, those foreigners who are most likely to commit sexual offences usually stay in Finland because of the need for protection, not on a work-based basis, for example. We may not be able to require that such people benefit our society or even that they are responsible for their livelihoods, but we can expect that they do not abuse, harass, rape or kill Finns. This is not too much to ask. Mr President! The majority of citizens believe that Finland cannot come to full care to commit crimes. This is also the view of the majority of politicians at the speech level. However, it is not enough to talk, because at the moment the situation is precisely that Finland can come to full care to commit crimes. It must be brought to an end by legislation. There is no reason why violent criminals should be allowed to remain in the country. I do not believe that the public wants to hear the jargon explanation as to why this is a legal issue. It is the duty of the Government and Parliament to find legal means to ensure that common sense and fairness are realised. Now that we have better paid ministers and they have more special assistants, it is certainly possible to carry out this legal project as well. There are many ways of doing this: stricter residence permit practices, more severe criminal sanctions, stricter citizenship legislation, more ambitious return policy, systematic detention of those who have received negative asylum decisions, etc. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u23	There is another speech here in advance. After that, we can have a debut if we want it. — Mr Tynkkynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u24	Madam President! We can see in this rape initiative how many Members of Parliament are getting their brains stuck, because at the same time we should defend women and at the same time defend the presence of foreign convicted rapists, and this equation cannot work. This time the citizens' initiative is made by a woman who is even married to an Iraqi man, as we have read in the newspaper interview. It is a red - green illusion that the integration of foreigners would in some way justify the detention of persons residing illegally or convicted of sexual offences. If someone in this country has actually been causing the Finnish attitudes to harden towards foreigners, then it is the red-greens. If foreigners who commit crimes cannot be expelled from the country or forced back to Finland for no reason, it is clear that Finns do not take a good view of it and that is why attitudes become harsher. The sufferers are decent immigrants. On the basis of the debate on consent initiatives, it could be assumed that there will be a large number of speeches from the Greens today, because we are now defending the right of women to immunity, but I regret to say that none of the 13 speeches on the list of speakers were made by the Greens. Now it's time to press the button on the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u27	Do we want this to be a debut? — That seems to be the case. I would ask those Members who wish to speak to press the V button and stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u28	Madam President! Sexual violence must always be taken seriously, every single time, in every organ. And we all have to understand everywhere that no means no. As far as this draft law is concerned, it is unfortunately already unconstitutional in itself when it proposes that a criminal always loses his residence permit. It is not in accordance with the Finnish Constitution. Last year, they were deported. The deportations are working pretty well. For 37 people, 25 were deported, including all those involved in homicides or their attempts and also drug, sexual and property offenders. Now we need to focus on crime prevention — as this government does. The programme is very long: the number of police officers is increased, support for victims is increased, the programme to combat violence against women is constrained, asylum is increased,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u30	Mr President! Just as the previous speaker said, it is quite clear — and I think we agree in this Chamber too — that all sexual crimes are punishable regardless of the person’s background. Then on this current government programme: The Government is committed to raising the minimum penalties for serious sexual crimes against children. In addition, it has been decided to launch a comprehensive reform of sexual offences legislation. These are now on the government list. In addition, I think it is important to say that the aim must be to try to transfer these convicted criminals to prisons in their countries of origin. [Base Finns Group : Move! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u31	Mr President! It is a great pity that there is no minister here from the government to answer this very important issue, and unfortunately even the desks of the government parties are very few in use. Last February, in the previous government, we agreed on a programme to combat crime and sexual crime of foreign origin. It is quite true, as Mr Heinäluoma said: of course every sexual offence must be condemned and prevented as well as possible. But it is also an undeniable fact that we face the challenge of increasing the likelihood of committing sexual crime in certain groups of nationalities that have moved to Finland. We must also tackle this for the sake of the majority with a foreign background, which is now marked by this minority's gross conduct. And I would like to ask — and this is where Mrs Torniainen is now mainly involved — where have these clear means of combating crime from a foreign background have been forgotten, such as the permanent limitation of residence permits without a work history, the acceleration of expulsion, the abolition of refugee status even in the event of a serious crime? I will give you a more detailed analysis of this in the speech, but where has the centre turned its cart here?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u32	Madam President! The Centre considers that the safety of citizens in Finland must be ensured in all circumstances. In Finland, everyone must live according to the laws and values of our country, for example as regards gender equality and integrity. This is an important issue. With regard to this citizens' initiative, the aim of the citizens' initiative is well understood and supported. The withdrawal and expulsion of those guilty of sexual offences should be carefully investigated, and I personally believe that, when this citizens' initiative goes to the Administrative Committee, it will receive proper, serious treatment there and then, in time, we will have the report here in the Chamber. There are a number of important suggestions for improvements in this area in the Government Programme and I hope that the Government will also move them forward quickly, just as Mr Mykkänen has already pointed out in his own speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u34	Madam President! After all, the Finnish criminal policy has been based for decades on the premise that criminals are being rehabilitated back into society, and this has contributed to legislation and also to the practice of judgment, which can be regarded to some extent even as degrading to the victim and far too generous to the criminal. During the last Minister of Justice, Antti Häkkänen, there was some kind of change in the paradigm of justice policy and a tightening of Finnish criminal policy, but this is only one side of this issue. The whole philosophy that a criminal must be rehabilitated has been based on the idea that a person is born in this country and will continue to live — and this is, of course, a starting point, as long as it is not taken too far — is quite understandable — but when it comes to people who come from outside our borders, this is by no means justified, and that is why the ideas behind this initiative are very understandable and acceptable. We must find ways of responding to these concerns of the citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u35	Mr President! Just this morning, in the auditorium, we have discussed the recommendations made by the Council of Europe to the Finnish Parliament specifically to reduce violence against women. There today the director of the Monika Women’s Crisis Centre, i.e. the Shelter, said that half of their clients — women of course — are a Finnish man.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u39	Mr President! It is quite clear that the person seeking asylum cannot be a security threat to those already living here. The citizens' initiative calls for action to be taken in so far as it has not yet been sufficiently regulated by law, i.e. to expel these people who have committed sexual offences. The current situation is that the expulsion of offenders from Finland is already possible in acts with a maximum sentence of at least one year’s imprisonment. Almost all sexual offences are currently subject to the expulsion requirement of the Aliens Act. For sexual offences, the maximum sentence for the exploitation of a person who is the subject of sexual harassment and sexual trafficking is less than one year in prison and expulsion is not possible. It is a real shame that there are no government ministers here to answer this question, because we have legislation that can be expelled, but
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u40	Madam President! At the end of the last period, we fought in the Legal Committee to intensify the penalties for sexual crimes against children. Regrettably, this important issue too remained under the roof of the Constitutional Committee as a result of the wars and the fall of the government. Now the government is trying to correct this by, among other things, reforming the whole of sexual crime law, which is a very good thing. I understand that this citizens' initiative has been taken and has received broad support. As has already been pointed out here, I would also like to remind you that the people of Finland are also guilty of sexual offences.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u43	Madam President! Return agreements relating to the theme of this bill, and this is a subject I intend to talk about as long as it is topical and I work in this house. Finland provides humanitarian aid in a number of ways: we help with mine clearance, education and other similar cases, and that is quite right, and that is what must be done. The same support is provided by the EU. But what I cannot understand and cannot accept is that a country should not be helped to accept its own citizens, that is, if we have not given asylum to a person now, whether he has been convicted of something or has not been granted asylum here for any other reason, and he should be forced back, then this country, which is receiving our help, will not accept the citizens of its own country. This is something that needs to be put right, and I think that we should have it at EU level.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u44	Mr President! This citizens' initiative raises important concerns and should be commended to citizens' initiative makers. We have quite often discussed various citizens' initiatives here today, last night on another important issue. Then the Minister of Education sat on the stand and took part in the discussion. I would like to see the Minister involved in these debates on citizens' initiatives. [Basic Finns Group : Just like! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u45	Mr President! This is a very important debate, and it is great that there has now been a debate in this Chamber specifically about reducing sexual crime, regardless of who or who has committed it. That is why this is also a very topical debate, because sexual crime in Finland is really, very much, unfortunately. This government has now made it quite clear that it intends to increase minimum punishment requirements for those who commit gross sexual crimes against children. This means that if you touch a child in the wrong way, you're going to go to jail and for a long time. That is a good rule that must be supported, and I believe that this Parliament will also support it when it comes to it. At the same time, it is also very important to note that current legislation already offers a very wide range of possibilities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u46	Mr President! I agree that there is no respect for this citizens' initiative when there is no minister here to answer. The fact that Finns commit sexual and violent crimes does not justify a single crime committed by a foreigner. Statistics are a fact. According to media data, the proportion of foreigners was 38 per cent in all reported sexual offences in Helsinki. More than half of the reported rapes in Helsinki last year were committed by a foreigner. I wonder where the government negotiations have buried this programme to combat foreign-based crime during the previous government. There were quite reasonable and substantial amendments, including the removal of the status of international protection from a person guilty of a serious crime in Finland, and the extension of the detention possibilities of asylum seekers and those who have been refused a decision. Why did you not take these important measures into the government programme?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u47	And now let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u48	Madam President! In 12 years, 14 representatives of the Finnish Parliament took a bill to amend the foreign law. The present citizens' initiative on the cancellation and expulsion of a residence permit sentenced to sexual offence in Finland is very similar in substance to that of the Basic Finns. The Finns of Peru were wise from afar, for it took only a few years after this bill, when Finland faced a massive flood of refugees, which undoubtedly included criminals and especially sexual offenders. Contrary to what some experts claimed in public at the time, Finland did not know the background of these arrivals. Rape in Oulu was a direct consequence of the 2015 refugee avalanche. Rape and sexual crimes against underage children have exploded throughout Finland, including in my home town of Vaasa. At the time of the Oulu cases, there were 74 criminal investigations in Ostrobothnia, I think, concerning rape or sexual exploitation of a minor. According to the information I have received, at least in Vaasa for the crimes under investigation today, suspects of foreign background who employ the police are commendable. Many groups of foreigners have over-representation in many different types of crimes, especially sexual offences. Now is the time to stop the new migration flows to Finland, as Finland will not be able to withstand a new migration avalanche such as 2015. I have submitted a written question to the government on the possible preparation for a new migration crisis. I think it is clear that the government must be prepared to prevent asylum seekers seeking to enter Finland through new safe countries at the border of our republic. Madam President! The citizens' initiative now before us is very important and I hope that it will be treated with the seriousness it deserves and that it will be easier to cancel and expel persons who have committed sexual offences. In addition, in the case of serious crimes against all people, it should be easier to cancel a residence permit. The most important thing is to prevent immigration that is harmful to Finland. I am afraid, as has also been seen, that women and children will continue to be the minority of asylum seekers and the majority will be young men of the best age.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u49	Mr President! Indeed, we are dealing with a very important issue. In no way does the Finnish sense of justice accept that sexual offences in general take place without effective intervention. It is good that society is discussing the matter, it is good that society intervenes, and, of course, the Finnish sense of justice does not accept that we have a situation in which Finland can commit serious sexual offences without leading to expulsion in the case of a person who has been granted a residence permit from abroad to Finland. If the person seeking protection in Finland, the person receiving the security becomes the cause of insecurity, then you are on the wrong path. Now, in this case of citizens' initiatives, the government and the ministries are assuming that it is precisely this proposed measure that will not work, because the automatic withdrawal of residence permits is contrary to international agreements or is contrary to the basic principles of the Constitution. In the Finnish system, it must pass through complaint channels. But at the same time this is also an excuse for us not to intervene more effectively in such situations and preferably in advance, so that the system is more manageable and we have a clearer opportunity to intervene in advance if we have foreign actors here who might commit these outrageous crimes. In that debate, I already referred to the fact that last winter there was a very close debate in society, the government also had a debate and a final outcome: in February we announced a programme to combat crime and sexual crime with a foreign background, in which there are, of course, also ways of tackling sexual crime in general. But it has also recognised the fact that we have a clearly increased risk in relation to certain national backgrounds, as Mr Vestman has pointed out in detail here, and that this must also be addressed by means of measures of foreign origin in particular. This is also in the interests of those with foreign backgrounds, because the majority who act in integrity is currently severely affected by understandable suspicions against a group which is somehow linked to this gross minority of foreigners. I would like to highlight a few of these measures in particular. A package of rapid and purely national decisions to move to a more manageable system would start by preparing, as agreed jointly by the government in February, for an amendment to the Aliens Act, which will allow the introduction of the border procedure for asylum procedures as defined in the directive.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u58	Mr President! This citizens' initiative on the cancellation and expulsion of a residence permit convicted of sexual offences in Finland is, above all, a signal that Finns do not consider the current situation to be fair and consistent with the sense of justice. There is good reason for the citizens and, in particular, the media to draw up gloomy figures. According to the police report, about 67% of reported sexual offences are known, and nearly 30% of these suspects are foreign citizens, and compared to the previous year, the proportion of foreigners has increased — that is last year’s figure. According to media data, for 2018, more than half of those convicted of sexual offences in Helsinki and Oulu are of foreign origin. Certain ethnic groups, such as Iraqis, are constantly overrepresented in sexual crime statistics. The fact that Finns commit sexual and violent crimes does not justify a single crime committed by a foreigner. Unadjusted violent and sexual offenders in Finland need not be tolerated. We already have enough problems with and to eradicate domestic crime. In addition, we do not need import crime. Foreigners belong to foreign prisons, not Finnish prisons. The last government made the necessary tightening up of legislation, but it is not enough as such. It is clear that the line must continue to be tightened so that foreigners who have committed violent and sexual crimes can also be effectively removed from the country. As has already been said in this debate, the real problem today is that expulsions are not necessarily carried out. Concrete, necessary changes to legislation have been proposed at the end of the last period in the Government's programme to combat foreign-based crime.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u63	Madam President! First of all, I would also like to thank the authors of this citizens' initiative and all those who have signed it. It is extremely good that we have this very important issue here today in the Chamber for debate. Last year, 3856 sexual offences were reported in Finland. Compared to 2017, there were over 500 more notifications. According to statistics, especially reports of sexual offences against children grew clearly last year. In 2017, 1188 notifications were made, while in 2018 as many as 1410. For example, in the Oulu region, the situation with regard to the increase in the number of sexual offences is truly alarming. Last July, the Oulu police released crime statistics for January-June 2019. There were 205 sexual offences reported by the Oulu Police Department, while in the previous year the number was 111. In the City of Oulu, the increase in the number of sexual offences was as much as 100 per cent from the previous year. Growth is shocking in its magnitude. The proportion of foreigners in sexual offences in the Oulu Police Department was about 40 per cent this year. Mr President! According to statistics, persons with foreign background, in particular Iraqis and Afghans, are overrepresented in statistics on sexual offences. According to a study carried out in 2014, the level of rape crime among immigrants from the Middle East and Africa has been 17 times higher than among native Finns. In the whole country, the share of all foreign suspects of recorded sexual offences was well over 20 per cent last year, or about one in four sexual offences committed by foreigners. The share is high, given that around 5% of the total population is foreign citizens in Finland. It is also worth mentioning that statistics no longer include a foreign person who has acquired Finnish citizenship. Mr President! The increase in sexual crime is undeniably the result of uncontrolled immigration from third countries to Finland. It is clearly seen as over-representation of foreigners, for example, in statistics on sexual offences. This is an indisputable fact that no one can deny anymore. What is now required of politicians is impressive measures to tackle the problem. It is primarily a matter of political will. Empty speeches are no longer enough, and there are plenty of ways to tackle this problem. The penalties for sexual offences must be tightened and the thresholds for sexual offences raised. The increase in the ceilings will not have the desired effect, as the courts usually provide penalties closer to the lower limits. I very much hope that the government will make progress on this. We follow the situation very closely in the True Finns. Finland's immigration policy needs to be tightened up and our country needs to be made the least attractive Nordic country in the eyes of asylum seekers. All persons who have received a negative asylum decision and who are illegal in the country must be detained and removed from Finland. Furthermore, the residence permits for immigrants who have committed serious and repeated crimes must be withdrawn, the criteria for international protection must be abolished and the expulsion of foreigners who have committed these crimes must be stepped up, including through the rehabilitation of these return agreements with third countries mentioned by Mr Kiurunk. Immigrants must not be excluded from the country on grounds such as family reasons. Mr President! I would like to emphasise that it is vital for Finland to achieve a minimum level of harmful immigration, and in future Finland must strive to help people in need in countries of origin and neighbouring countries of origin. All of this must be done in order to guarantee the safety of Finns both now and in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u64	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the initiative. It tells us of the public's feelings about a matter that we have had to deal with several times in public, that is, sexual offences. This initiative is a good starting point for discussion in the Administrative Committee. It does not in itself bring new conditions to these conditions for expulsion from the country. Furthermore, if you have committed a crime that may result in one year of imprisonment — talk of a threat to national security or, in general, a threat to order and security — then you can be expelled, but this expulsion would be automated. I absolutely believe that this threshold for expulsion must be lowered, absolutely, more readily than ever, to get out of the country a person who has committed a serious crime or repeated crimes, but that is the degree of realism, or, rather, an absolute reality, I am afraid that this kind of automation is not going to succeed because of human rights agreements. It's realism. But we have a lot of other ways of doing this. I myself have been talking for a long time about the fact that when a court deals with a serious criminal matter, could it not, at the same time, deal with this administrative matter, namely the residence permit? This doesn't seem to work. I understand that we have criminal and administrative processes in different courts, but it would be really effective at the same time to deal with these two processes in parallel. Then there would be a decision immediately. At the same time, if a person is convicted of aggravated rape, there would be an administrative decision as to whether to expel him or not. I think we should think about this. It would save a lot of money and save a lot, a lot of time. This is something worth taking forward. In this respect, Mr Mykkänen and Mr Vestman have already presented a great deal of the other things that can be done to prevent crime, not only at a lower threshold, but also at the same time to banish criminals who, for example, repeatedly commit crimes here. Mr President! In my previous life, I was the head of a police unit that investigated, among other things, sexual crimes. We had about 150 of them a year, which is to say that I have seen a great many different victims of crime, including perpetrators. For me, and for those victims too, it is not a matter of determining whether it is a Finnish rapist or of foreign origin. Actions are always just as damaging and traumatic to the victim. Unfortunately, this criminal policy of ours has for a long time been quite factor-driven, all thought only from the author's point of view, but luckily, last season we were able to turn a little bit of that direction, that is to say, let's start thinking about the victim — and the victim is the most important one. Rape usually becomes life imprisonment for the victim, probation for the perpetrator, and that is not the way it can be. This direction needs to be changed. As early as last season, the Legal Committee, in which I worked with a few representatives present, tightened up the law on the mandate of Minister Häkkänen, including by making a serious child rape crime title there and increasing the minimum penalty for sexual abuse of the child. But that is not enough, and unfortunately, as Mr Kymäläinen said, we ran out of time, and there were constitutional problems again. We would have been, I believe, unanimous in the Committee on Legal Affairs, in tightening up these minimum penalties in relation to sexual offences, especially sexual offences against children. That was not possible at the time, and the Committee on Legal Affairs made binding, firm contributions to this future government and Parliament, including to reform Chapter 20 of the Criminal Code and also to increase these minimum penalties. So I would be happy to see the government take these forward, and I believe that this will happen — preferably on a fast schedule. That alone is not enough to ensure that the legislation is in place. There must be resources to prevent and investigate these serious crimes. Of course, we have now added the so-called online police officers who are on the same chat rooms as young people are on. It is good prevention, and that is the way it should be. But then the brutal work that exposes these sex offenders simply does not have sufficient resources. Most of the time, the encounter is now taking place on that network, not so much in the streets and restaurants, but there. So you have to get this kind of revealing investigation that brings excellent results, more manpower. I know that in many places there are dozens, if not hundreds, of good departures or clues waiting, but there are just no police officers to investigate them, specifically these sexual crimes. We have to get more of these because the crime that has always been prevented is better than the crime that has been committed. This is absolutely what must be done. And as I said earlier, it is not decisive whether the offender is a native Finn or an immigrant. It is crucial that we are able to prevent these crimes and, if we are able to prevent crimes committed by people of foreign origin, it is also effective crime prevention. Not only should it identify this according to the country of origin, but it must be remembered that the means will then be different. If we are able to tighten up this asylum policy and the expulsion of the offender, it is an effective prevention of crime, it is worth bearing it in mind.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u65	Madam President! My 2015 bill for the expulsion of foreign criminals is in line with the citizens' initiative now under discussion. In this context, it should be noted that although sexual offences are particularly reprehensible, all foreigners guilty of serious crimes must be expelled. However, it is important that it is precisely sexual offenders who can be deported more successfully. In my opinion, a two-year prison sentence could be a good limit to an automatic expulsion order for a foreigner. This is supported by the fact that the minimum penalty for several so-called over-the-counter crimes is generally defined by law for two years. According to the current law, the two-year prison sentence is also a kind of limit to the most serious crimes, since more than two years of imprisonment is always imposed under the current law as an absolute imprisonment. In the light of the current law, the legislator's intention is also to say that the minimum practice is that foreigners, especially those responsible for the most serious crimes, will no longer enjoy social confidence and would thus be converted or expelled. If a foreigner has committed such serious acts that they have been judged to be punishable by an absolute prison sentence of at least two years in court, such an alien poses a serious threat to society in the future. The arguments in favour of proselytizing or expelling such a foreign offender are so much greater than the possible arguments against proselytizing or expulsion that proselytizing or expulsion must also be a very strong starting point in the law. The adoption of the proposed new and clearer expulsion policy and of an expulsion vending machine by law would increase the predictability of judicial practice and thus the legal security and equality of offenders before the law. The citizens' initiative under discussion has proposed a ban on appeals against the expulsion decision taken by the Finnish Immigration Service. In my view, this requirement for a citizens' initiative is clearly incompatible with Article 21 of the Constitution, which states that decisions must be brought before a court. In a judicial state, jurisdiction cannot be outsourced to the authorities in a matter of fundamental importance to the individual as well as in expulsion. On the other hand, it would be quite justifiable, and also constitutional, for the decision on automatic expulsion to be taken directly to the District Court in the event of a criminal conviction. This is also the case in many other countries. This is also the case in other EU countries. This would speed up the expulsion process considerably, as the current process is four-step. In the current process, after the final judgment of the General Court, the police may begin to consider whether it is appropriate for a foreign offender to be turned or expelled and to order an entry ban on the grounds of a criminal conviction, as provided for in the Aliens Act. If the police end up in favour of rendition or expulsion and the imposition of an entry ban, they will have to submit an application to the Finnish Immigration Service. So the Finnish Immigration Service is the second instance in this four-step system. If the Finnish Immigration Service decides to convert or expel a foreign criminal and to impose an entry ban, the decision is admissible to the administrative court and then even to the highest administrative court. This whole four-step process would be eliminated if the case were dealt with in a district court in connection with a criminal conviction. Madam Speaker! [Second Vice-President JuhoEerola : Mr. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u72	Mr President! There is a citizens’ initiative entitled ‘Discrimination and expulsion of a residence permit convicted of a The purpose of this initiative is, of course, important and to be supported. However, convicted sexual crimes are one of the bad manifestations of poor government immigration. Not long ago, the House dealt with mutilations and, at the latest, it turned out that there have been no convictions of these mutilations, and very few have even been accused in fact, even though there are apparently several thousand victims or those threatened by it in Finland. The number of these mutilations is so significant that the various parties involved are, in fact, already a significant proportion of these particular minority groups, even in terms of very rapid mathematics. In addition to this direct violence, it is an even more common phenomenon that immigration means that there are a large number of people in the country, many of whom have no intention of adapting to Finnish society, and this figure is constantly increasing. This raises questions about the ability and means of a democratic Nordic society to eventually intervene in such a process at a time when there is already a considerable number of people in the country who are willing and able to adapt. This is where Mr Räsänen raised the issue of integration, and I would also like to emphasise that, when it comes to integration or integration, it should be understood that, on the basis of the facts, it is largely a matter of large-scale non-adaptation and therefore society should not even expose itself to this type of widespread harmful immigration. It's a valuable initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u73	Mr President! This citizens' initiative is very important, indeed one of the most important, in order to increase the safety of women and children in Finland in particular. I would like to thank the initiators of the initiative and all the 118374 signatories. It's a huge number of people. According to the Foreigners' Act, a foreigner or refugee residing in Finland on residence permits may be expelled if he has been found guilty of a crime for which a maximum sentence of at least one year has been imposed or has repeatedly committed crimes. Most sexual offences are punishable by at least one year’s imprisonment under the Penal Code. These crimes include rape, sexual abuse and child sexual abuse. The expulsion of a foreigner from the country is therefore possible under the existing law in most cases of sexual offences. However, in the case of expulsion, it is always necessary, in accordance with the current Aliens Act, to carry out an overall examination which takes into account the nature of the offence, the seriousness of the offence and the consequences for the parties involved, on the one hand, the length and purpose of the stay of a foreigner and his ties with Finland, on the other hand. If this citizens' initiative were to take place, this overall consideration would be abandoned in the case of sexual offences, which would automatically lead to the withdrawal and expulsion of a residence permit. There is a very good justification for this initiative. The number of sexual offences committed by foreigners is increasing in Finland, and Finns are experiencing insecurity as a result of sexual offences committed by foreigners. As has been heard here earlier today, more than half of the rapes reported in Helsinki have already been committed by foreigners. So the world has changed, and legislation must also change. Sexual crimes are crimes that are particularly offensive to human dignity. It must be made clear to foreigners, as to the general population, that there is zero tolerance in Finland for sexual offences. Zero tolerance means that no total consideration should be used, but the withdrawal of a residence permit for a foreign sex offender should automatically and immediately follow expulsion. Mr President! What I say next may burn down a few bridges, because I am going to say what a large proportion of the people think. Since I have been elected as a Member of Parliament, I am also going to represent the opinions of the people in my speeches, and I am not going to please anyone in this Chamber just because I am more capable or politically correct. It is important to point out that the growing problem of sexual crimes has also been created by some politicians sitting in this Chamber as ministers. In particular, Prime Minister Sipilä of the previous government and Home Secretary Orpo of the previous government were in the process of letting tens of thousands of foreign men into Finland who should never have been allowed here. Some of them have committed very serious crimes. Almost all of them came through a safe country, Sweden, when, in keeping with the spirit of the Dublin Agreement, they should never have been received, as former Prime Minister Sipilä himself finally admitted in Yle’s news. However, this was not done. We would have saved many lives and many children and women would have avoided being victims of sexual crime if we had had a more sensible and security-oriented immigration policy in recent years. Social peace and the political climate would certainly also be less inflamed without these mega-errors.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u76	Mr President! The objectives of this citizens' initiative are good and I support them myself. I interpret it as a zero tolerance for sexual offences committed by persons of foreign origin who have come here. The situation at the moment is, as many people have already said before me, that even now a person can be deported if he has committed an act for which the maximum sentence is at least one year in prison or has repeatedly committed crimes. I think that Mr Tolvanen and Mr Tavio have made a good point here about the problems involved in this process of expulsion. This four-step process is such that it can take a long time for the person who committed these crimes to eventually be removed from the country. I believe that Mr Tolvanen's view that the administrative decision to abolish the residence permit and return the person would be taken in the same context as this crime is dealt with in a district court would be worth considering. That way we'll be able to get these people back more effectively. Mr Kiuru pointed out earlier that, among other things, Iraqis are very unpleasantly represented in these statistics, and yet, at the same time, we know that Iraq does not accept asylum seekers who have been returned there and who are not entitled to a residence permit. This is problematic in the sense, among other things, that Finland participates in the reconstruction of Iraq and its costs both independently as Finland and also through the EU, which means that it is quite problematic in that sense that we are paying for the reconstruction of the country, but that we are not able to reach a bilateral agreement on refunds. I hope that the government will take seriously the objective of this citizens' initiative, namely that we want Finnish women and children to be safe even though a lot of people from other parts of the world have come here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u77	Mr President! We are once again dealing with a citizens' initiative signed by more than 100,000 people. The content of the initiative rightly addresses our people. Sexual crime is an extremely traumatic, terrible and offensive crime. It is particularly shocking and wrong for the victim, but it must not be forgotten how it affects the victim’s relatives and loved ones. Grief and anger change places in your mind, paralyze your ability to function, and so forth. Sexual crimes against minors in particular are scandalous and truly condemned. I am a member of a group of people who personally advocate a very heavy condemnation regardless of their background, especially in the case of sexual crimes against children. These crimes damage the victim for the rest of his life, self-image, courage, sexuality and inviolability. I understand that this citizens' initiative has been taken and that it has received broad support. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the people of Central Finland are also guilty of sexual offences. However, this initiative directs the debate with a residence permit for those in Finland, and I see that it is allowed. I also understand that we do not need any new sexual offences in Finland. People’s sense of justice says that if you do not behave in accordance with the law but commit gross acts, it is reasonable to expel people from the country. It is offensive to Finns to provide security for those fleeing from dangerous conditions and they themselves cause insecurity in Finland. In particular, it is reprehensible to commit repeatedly the same crimes. Mr President! We know that we are committed to international human rights agreements and we must act in accordance with them as the rule of law. There is no justification or cause for false accusations against the government. No one wants more criminals in Finland. No one wants to send a message that we welcome them. Now the government tries to intervene in a number of ways. The starting point is that attempts are being made to transfer convicted criminals to prisons in their countries of origin. This supports their idea of social integration. All sexual offences are punishable regardless of the author’s background, and the government is committed to raising the minimum penalty for gross sexual offences against children. Mr President! There are no empty speeches, but a lot of action is being taken on the part of the government. In order to implement criminal liability and speed up the processing of criminal offences, the resources of the police, prosecutors and courts will be increased in such a way as to reduce the processing times of judicial proceedings. The number of police officers will be increased by 7500 person-years by 2022. Develop a programme to combat violence against women. A comprehensive reform of sexual offences legislation will be carried out, starting with immunity and sexual self-determination. The definition of rape in criminal law will be changed to a lack of consent based on legal certainty. Extension of the services and national coverage of support centres for victims of sexual crime and —important —the National Implementation Plan of the Lanzarote Convention in Finland for cooperation with organisations to prevent sexual violence against children and to ensure the provision of services In particular, the minimum penalties for serious sexual crimes against children will be increased and the conditions for the release of the most dangerous violent offenders will be thoroughly assessed. Mr President! Mr Tolvanen well described the current legal framework in his speech. From a legal point of view, it is difficult to demand automatic withdrawal and immediate expulsion of a residence permit, inter alia because the European Convention on Human Rights provides that everyone must be guaranteed the right to a fair trial. The process can take years, including trial and appeal permission. It is therefore up to the committee to clarify the situation on this issue as well. According to the Foreigners' Act, a person who has received a residence permit can already be deported if he has committed a crime for which a maximum sentence of 1 year has been imposed or has repeatedly committed a crime. It is therefore already possible to withdraw authorisations on grounds of public security. It is also difficult if there is a situation in the country of the asylum seeker that he will be killed if he returns to his country of origin. Finally, I repeat that the initiative needs careful consideration. I would also like to point out that important reinforcements, improvements, including in this area, have been included in the Government's programme. Above all, we need measures to prevent any human being from being violated. But since the evil, despite prevention, does not go away altogether, punishments are needed sufficiently severe, with the severity of the punishment, which also has a preventive effect. Finally, this citizens' initiative needs and deserves careful consideration in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u78	Mr President! Thank you to the authors and signatories of the initiative. It is very important to take into account in this Chamber the fact that more than 100,000 people have signed the initiative and it is therefore serious enough that it is really well dealt with here as well. And it's a very serious matter, isn't it? It is also important for the safety of citizens and the credibility of political decision-makers that we are here to legislate with significant deterrents to the fight against crime. This government is building on the goals and initiatives of the last government from the point of view that this issue of sexual crime is now considered primarily from the point of view of the victim. Experts have also long been calling for this. That is why these reforms now include, first and foremost, the deterrent, in other words, minimum penalties for sexual offences against children in particular, will be increased. This is very important, and hopefully it will also become quite clear that if you touch a child you will also sit in the castle and for a long time. This message must also become quite clear to all people living in this country, regardless of who they are. The second point that this government is also going to take forward is that it is from the victim's point of view that the legislation on sexual offences is being radically reformed, not patchy changes, but a comprehensive reform aimed primarily at preventing sexual crime. This includes increasing the number and resources of police officers at national level. This includes increasing the resources and resources of prosecutors and courts. This also includes what the former representative, Mr Kymäläinen, said well, namely the improvement and presentation of the services and treatment of victims of violent crimes at national level. At the same time, however, experts have said that the real way to prevent sexual crime is to commit men — mainly men — to society, regardless of who these men are. So if a man goes to school, is at work, is involved in hobby activities, is a family member possibly, that is, there are many ties to society, most likely this person will not endanger this whole, this life by committing serious crimes. This will have a preventive effect, which we must also look at in this Chamber as a whole when sexual crime is dealt with. Then I also have to say, since I know a thing or two about Iraq, I have also acted as an expert there, that there is stricter sexual law in Iraq than there is in Finland. Rape of a child can even be a death sentence, but unfortunately a mere hard sentence has not been a sufficient deterrent, and that is precisely why it would be the preventive action and, in particular, but also here, would be a better way forward. In addition to this, Iraq has called for the return of Iraqi citizens who committed crimes in Finland. This must be taken into account. It has demanded it from the previous government. This is an issue that must also be discussed more extensively, because Iraq really wants these criminals Iraqi citizens back in their own country. But can we ensure legal certainty on this issue? This is an issue which must then be considered in greater depth. Finally, I would like to say that there has now been some talk in this Chamber of refugee flows, migratory avalanches, waves of refugees. This kind of termset related to natural disasters has been used for people. There are 70 million refugees in the world today. The majority are either immigrants in their own country or in neighbouring regions. I myself came to this country as a refugee. It is very demeaning to me that my colleagues use these kinds of natural disasters when describing people like me. I would like to see this changed. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u79	Mr President! First of all, like previous speakers, I would also like to thank the signatories of the citizens' initiative for taking this initiative and for the fact that we are also discussing in this Chamber the fight against sexual crimes and the way in which we are interfering with these offenders. I believe that the system and institution of citizens' initiatives is an important new channel of initiative, which will also give us social themes which are widely spoken by our citizens here in the Chamber for debate, and I very much welcome that. I believe that Mr Kymäläinen described very well the government's actions in the past in the way in which this phenomenon of sexual crime is now being addressed. It essentially includes the overall reform of sexual offences legislation. I also think it is clear — when, in the past, representatives of Mr Mykkänen and Mr Vestman, among other things, spoke about this programme to combat foreign crime in the previous government — that the measures of this programme will also be dealt with in this overall reform of criminal law now decided by the government. In relation to this, the previous government did indeed bring this prevention programme to the table in February, but unfortunately did not have time to take it forward any further. I would like to say that there are also measures that have already been taken, such as the police's Internet surveillance and police resources, to which the government is now putting forward additional resources for next year. The government has also decided to intervene and allocate additional resources to Migri in order to speed up the asylum process. And then the third thing is this hardening of the penalties for sexual offences, which the government has also decided and committed to raising the minimum penalties for serious sexual crimes against children, so I believe that in this Chamber we have a consensus that this sexual crime phenomenon must be tackled and that in Finland we must have zero tolerance to this whole phenomenon. I expect the government to take these measures on an urgent basis, because it is clear, of course, that these sexual crimes are widely addressed in Finland and they are a very strong and widespread violation of the Finnish legal sense. Finally, I would like to say something about this last reading, because the citizens' initiative has already been on the same track here in Parliament for the last period. It was then unanimously stated in the Administrative Committee that the citizens' initiative of that time would not be taken forward. Now, a direct quote from the report of the Administrative Committee, which stated: ‘The legislation in force in Finland contains broad possibilities for the expulsion of offenders’. To be continued:‘The committee recognises that the legislation
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u82	Mr President! The number of sexual crimes committed by foreigners in our country has increased enormously in recent years. This phenomenon has evoked the emotions of the native population. Indeed, the refugees who were led to ask questions about living standards in our country did not prove to be multi-skillers and did not become cheap labour in our country to the extent desired by certain parties. Most of them became a group in our country, employing the police, including all kinds of officials, security, justice and prison services. Every Finn pays for all this by giving up part of its well-being. Finns also pay the full cost of the lifestyle lifestyle of the group in question. Mr President! People's faith in the judiciary and the decision-makers is being undermined because citizens feel that the judiciary has not given those convicted of sexual offences enough punishment and that the decision-makers have not addressed this problem. Although our legislation allows for greater punishment, the judiciary seems to be using sexual offences to condemn the lower limits laid down by law. The purpose of sanctions is to act as a deterrent and thus maintain discipline and order in society. It is extremely dangerous for people to lose faith in the judiciary and in decision-makers. We must do everything we can to ensure that social peace is maintained, and therefore the limits of penalties for sexual offences must be severely hardened. Mr President! The majority of foreigners convicted of sexual offences in Finland represent a culture in which women's rights are considerably worse than ours. It is foolish to imagine that a criminal who came from another culture to Finland would first adapt to our culture and then start committing crimes. Finland’s reputable and good-quality prisons, the western border without supervision and loose convictions for crimes even serve as an incentive for foreign criminals to come to Finland to commit crimes. It is therefore essential that border controls are introduced at all Finnish borders and that no one is allowed to apply for asylum in Finland through safe countries. Mr President! When implemented, this highly supported citizens' initiative will curb asylum seekers and persons already granted asylum in Finland and thus significantly reduce future prison expenses. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u83	Mr President! The law allows for the expulsion of a foreigner who has committed crimes even now. Last year, 25 of the perpetrators of sexual crimes were deported. They were two thirds of those for whom expulsion was sought. Anyone guilty of a homicide or attempted homicide was deported. Narcotics and property criminals have also been deported. However, it must be borne in mind that a foreigner must not be expelled, extradited or returned if he is therefore threatened with the death penalty, torture or other forms of human dignity. This Parliament has already had time to discuss sexual offences on several occasions. After all, they are always gross crimes against physical integrity, which must be combated, prevented and the perpetrators of which must always be held accountable. As Mr Kymäläinen said, among other things, the consent initiative, according to which the criterion for rape is the lack of consent of the victim, is precisely that the rapists are always held responsible, but the most important fight is prevention. The key to this is the catch threshold. The Government Programme includes a number of actions through which the catch threshold is lowered. Police resources are being increased. Support for victims will be increased so that victims are better prepared to report the crimes they have experienced. After all, the crime will never come to the attention of the authorities if the victim is afraid to tell you about it. The dimension of sexual crime centres will be extended and the children's house model promoted. In addition, the Government Programme includes a programme to combat violence against women and to increase the number of asylum places, as well as an overall review and tightening of sexual offences legislation, in particular the penalty scale and, in particular, the penalty scale for sexual offences against children. In this debate, sexual crimes have been described in many speeches as a matter of particular concern to foreigners and certain groups of foreigners. Among certain groups of foreigners, sexual offences are more common as percentages than among Finns. However, it must be borne in mind that the overwhelming majority of sexual offences committed in Finland are committed by Finns, born in Finland, and those responsible for sexual offences in each nationality group are a very small minority. According to Statistics Finland, there are 0.01 per cent of suspected rapes among Finnish citizens, 0.08 per cent among Swedish citizens, 0.02 per cent among Estonian citizens, 0.03 per cent among Russian and former Soviet citizens, 0.12 per cent among Somali citizens and 0.24 per cent among citizens of other foreign countries. So really, in all groups, the perpetrators of rape and sexual offences are a very small minority. There is no record of whether these relationships are the same in sexual crimes that never come to the attention of the police. Mr President! It is important that legislation treats people equally regardless of their gender, religion, skin color, country of birth, and other things they cannot influence themselves. Finns have the right to trust that society is safe, and in this respect the reform of the sexual offences legislation contained in the Government Programme is very necessary and justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u84	Mr President! This important citizens' initiative is being properly dealt with here in Parliament, I believe, and this debate is already showing that. On the other hand, it is truly regrettable that none of our ministers — whether they have been 19 — have been present during the whole procedure. Would it not be a matter of organisation for the government to be represented in the debate on such a matter, especially, of course, Minister Ohio and Minister Henriksson, including the Prime Minister and someone from the ministerial group in the centre? Greetings from that: Parliament appreciates citizens' initiatives, but it is now a little unclear on the part of the government whether that appreciation is at the level intended to be. Mr President! Quite precisely 20 years ago, the Parliament was consulted in a few years during its term of office, 1999-2003, the overall reform of the penal code. I was then a member of the Legal Committee, and then there were such powerful policemen as Aitoniemi and Myllyniemi, and then there were three of them. We were all sitting in the Legal Committee, and when we dealt with Chapter 20 of the Criminal Code, we proposed, the three of us, clearly stronger penalties, a clear definition of concepts, and then, in particular, a higher level of lower limits than that which the government had put in its motion and which came to the decision of the committee and Parliament. Johannes Koskinen, then Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, insisted that the penalty scales cannot be increased as we would have liked. Now there is a good basis for the government's protest as to how to proceed from now on, so that we can really move forward on these issues. Mr President! We received a large group of asylum seekers in 2015, and it was quite descriptive that there were very many young boys in the group. They have now grown into men in a few years, well since they came to the country, and this is perhaps the factor that has not been adequately considered: whether they have grown up from boys to men, also in view of this sexual behaviour and these crimes, what has happened. I think we should look into that. I mean, a lot of young men, boys. Children, women, the elderly, the sick were left in the countries of origin at the feet of war when young men crossed the sea, through safe lands to the north. They were able to do so, others were left there to suffer, and this does indicate that this matter was not at all on a logical basis. Why do young men come and get here, but those who are really victims suffered? In this situation we are now, and then there have been these unfortunate cases, of which, unfortunately, the statistics tell us that these groups are strongly over-represented in these crimes, and good speeches have been made here. Without any further guilt of nationality or religion, this is a fact. Mr President! There are indeed good ideas and proposals here about what needs to be done, and I hope that the government will also do this and take action. There has also been quite a lot of reference to the Finnish Constitution and international treaties. I regard them as important and as a starting point for legislation, but I do have to ask whether those international agreements have been concluded at a time of so-called good weather, so that the situation that has now arisen in Europe and for us has not been adequately taken into account. This leads to the situation that we are prisoners of the Constitution and of international agreements. I am not asking them here and now to be changed, but the point of assessment is: will the Finnish Constitution protect the Finnish child, the Finnish woman, the Finnish people as intended, or will they protect the other and also the criminals more than our own citizens?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u85	Mr President! The citizens' initiative proposes that the person who committed and convicted a sexual offence in Finland automatically loses his existing residence permit and that the Finnish Immigration Service be authorised to expel the sentenced person immediately. Sexual crime must always be condemned regardless of the perpetrator's background. Finland must comply with its international commitments, and security must be offered to those who run the risk of life. The processing of asylum applications must be appropriate and the legal protection of applicants must be guaranteed. Negative decisions should be made and forced removal should be possible. It would be easy to legislate if the starting point to be taken into account was only what is right and reasonable for one’s own mind. However, this is not the case in this debate either. The Geneva Convention and the European Convention on Human Rights will result in a so-called return ban. No one can be returned to circumstances in which he or she would be threatened by the death penalty, torture or other inhuman or degrading treatment. The SDP considers the current legislation on expulsion to be correct. From a legal point of view, it is difficult to demand the immediate measures set out in the initiative. Among other things, the European Convention on Human Rights provides that everyone must be guaranteed the right to a fair trial. The process can take years, including trial and appeal permission. Because of suspicion of crime alone, no one can be deported. Any expulsion would only take place after the conviction of the crime. Mr President! Personally, I would strongly focus my eyes on the overall reform of criminal law, which is based on immunity and sexual self-determination. Making the definition of rape law based on lack of consent is very important. The current government will implement the full reform of sexual offences legislation and will draw up a programme to combat violence against women. In addition, the Government invests in human resources and thus improves the operating conditions of the safety authorities. For example, no one should feel insecure when traveling outside at night. It is important to increase the number of police officers. I am pleased that this important investment has also been recorded in the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u86	Mr President! There is a very important citizen's initiative in the deliberations of the Parliament, which proposes the cancellation and expulsion of residence permits for foreign persons convicted of sexual offences in Finland. To this start, I would like to thank all over 100,000 Finns who signed the citizens' initiative. Mr President! This is a very important citizens' initiative on a subject that the Finns of Finland have been talking about here in Parliament for a long time and also put forward a number of legislative initiatives and other concrete proposals for years. Earlier today, reference has been made, among other things, to a bill signed in 2012 by 14 representatives of the Finnish People's Party, which aimed at a similar outcome to that of this citizens' initiative. We have also repeatedly called for the detention and removal of illegal residents. Furthermore, we have consistently proposed a substantial increase in the thresholds for penalties for sexual and violent offences. In addition to the above, the Finns of Finland took a number of initiatives during the last period, including a significant tightening of the conditions for obtaining Finnish citizenship. We proposed, among other things, a substantial extension of housing time requirements and we have also called for stricter language requirements. Mr President! In recent years, the number of sexual offences has turned to a very violent increase in Finland. According to police government statistics, the number of reported sexual offences, 3856, was about 15 per cent higher last year than in 2017, and according to statistics, about one in four reported sexual offences were suspected of being committed by foreigners. The number of sex crimes reported in the capital grew by as much as 48 percent. This growth is quite shocking. Mr President! The reasons for the darkening of these statistics have been assessed and it has often been argued, inter alia, that the reporting threshold has been significantly reduced. However, I do not believe in this explanation, but believe that the problem is very real and is due to quite different factors. This situation must be tackled with determination, which is also what this citizens' initiative is aimed at.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u87	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the authors of this initiative. It addresses an important problem, which has already been addressed in the previous period. It is therefore a pity that no government minister has been in a hurry to deal with this initiative. The government's proposals to prevent sexual offences, which have been heard in this Chamber today, do not necessarily help the acute situation, and even the preventive effect will be mild, with the exception of an increase in the minimum penalty scale for sexual offences. The addition of resources should take into account not only the police and the courts, but also the resources of legal aid, so that matters do not become congested or justice is not realised. It has also been said that Finns rape. That's right. That is why we do not need foreign imports in this respect. On the other hand, in the case of sexual offences, it should also be examined whether many Finns are native Finnish. If citizenship has been granted, citizenship should be withdrawn in the convictions of all serious crimes against life or health. In the case of sexual crimes, there have also been homicides, even murders, and it is extremely difficult to understand the fight against expulsion. It is like a wet cloth to the face of the victims as well as the families of the victims who lost their precious or their lives. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u88	Mr President! I too would like to thank the authors of the citizens' initiative for raising a very important issue. The importance of this issue is underlined, among other things, by the large number of signatures received by the initiative. People see this as a major problem and want to change it. In my opinion, the most important aspect of this debate is that the citizens' measure of these crimes is full, and the message in this citizens' initiative is that do not stick to the paragraphs, but take care of them. It's basically a matter of values. The citizens want to send us a message that do not explain that the law now allows expulsion, even at the moment, when everyone understands the number of expulsions, or rather the lack of numbers, that the current system simply does not work, and the message to us is that you have to deal with it so that it works. Also, decision-makers, do not explain at every turn that foreign sex offenders have rights. Finns also have rights to safety and integrity. When these rights come up against each other, should it be unclear to us whose right goes beyond another right, which comes first? I also remember the explanation as to why the thresholds for sexual offences against children could not be raised during the last period, even though there were several legislative initiatives signed by more than a hundred MPs. The explanation was that the legal scholars saw that these punishments were not related to other crimes. Mr President! This is also a question of values. The penalties for crimes depend entirely on the values of society. In many Western countries, crimes are convicted in a different way than in Finland. It is often said that people cannot be returned to countries with the death penalty. Well, I'm sure you can return people from Finland to the United States. There's a death penalty in the United States. If we think that the practice of these penalties is bad at the moment and the public feels that it is bad and that it is because, for example, the attitudes and values of legal scholars are at odds with the attitudes and values of the people and parliament, then it should not be unclear whose attitudes and values are overturned. Of course the people and the parliament. In such a situation, the legal scholars must avoid overstepping the will of the people. The most important thing about this phenomenon, however, is that once such crimes have taken place at all, then the damage has already happened. Prophylactic efforts should be made to avoid the need for sanctions and expulsions, because it is always late. The most important measure would have to be to tighten immigration policy so that these crimes do not occur or at least do not occur as little as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u89	Mr President! I would also like to add to the previous speech that, in June 2016, there was a citizens' initiative here in Parliament, which was then rejected. At that time, the Administrative Committee unanimously considered, including the Finns of Finland, that, in order to be adopted, a citizens' initiative must comply with certain legal frameworks following the Constitution, international obligations, fundamental principles of law and a regulatory tradition specific to the area of justice. According to the Administrative Committee, the marginal conditions were not met and, on the contrary, the citizens' initiative would have reduced the grounds for expulsion of the current foreign law. So this was unanimous, including the True Finns. Mr President! The initiative states that ‘in particular the asylum seeker must respect the laws we have applied I personally feel that everyone must respect the laws of our country, everyone who is already here and who comes here. It is up to us, under all circumstances, to ensure that security is maintained and maintained in this country and, above all, that we live by the laws and values of our country, especially as regards gender equality and integrity. At this point you can say that in a country like a country, because Finland is an equal country in which men and women are equal, the position of women is strong and the word of women is as strong as that of a man. This is not the case everywhere. These are just the kind of questions that easily arise in everyday life when we consider, for example, the families or people who have come here. When we talk about this issue in the debate, we must first of all talk about the means and precisely the prevention that will be able to tackle the fact that this does not happen, which is what we are trying to resolve here. Quite a lot comes from the position of a woman, the way in which, above all, it is possible to integrate and ensure that such situations do not arise. We must also make a contribution to those families that have come, including those men who have come alone who cannot, for example, be returned when these agreements prevent its return. It is not possible for us to do so — when the country states that it will not be taken back, then it will be known that the so-called problem is in the hands here and we must be able to resolve it. So then we need to get to that everyday life better, that is to say to make sure that the Finnish customs — how this world of values works and also the way we respect one another — are more visible and heard.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u90	Mr President! A few clarifications to the debate. Firstly, as I said last year, 25 foreigners were deported for sexual crimes. This is based on the Finnish Broadcasting News from March. The radio has been digging through these court records. In this debate, I have not noticed anyone suggesting that the possibility of expelling a foreigner who committed the crime should be removed from the law. Secondly, this increase in the number of reported sexual offences, which is why: Well, of course we cannot know for sure at least as long as there is no crime victim investigation to compare people's answers, how many have been subjected to sexual offences, and the number of crimes reported in a given year. However, the police view of this increase in the number of notifications is that the notification threshold has fallen and there are two reasons for this: Firstly, the debate on sexual offences has lowered the threshold. For example, the very visible debate on me too has brought these things to the attention of the people and has made many victims of sexual crime better aware that what has been done to them is a crime and has encouraged them to overcome the shame that most of the victims of sexual crime come first in connection with this crime and to report it. Secondly, according to police chief Seppo Kolehmaa, improvements in the status and rights of the victim of crime and access to assistance and support have also contributed to reporting crimes. He refers to the so-called Victims Directive, the requirements of which were incorporated into the law last year. Its directive has made it an obligation for the police to direct victims of crime to aid systems and in the judicial process to take account of the need to protect victims.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u91	Mr President! Mr Al-Taee has just said in his speech that the death penalty in Iraq is not even a deterrent to sexual acts and rapes against children, and I see this as the reason why it is desirable for the law to be tightened up here in Finland and for expulsions to be increased. Mr Kankaanniemi then asked why only young men come here. I see this thing again, like they're being sent here. There is no pension system in the countries of origin that we have here in Finland, so the elderly will not survive there unless young men leave the world and send money there, for example, abroad from Finland. The representative, Mr Werner, said that no one can be expelled from Finland — according to him, this is what the law says, and it certainly is. But that is why we need to catch up. When they are not allowed here to commit crimes, they do not need to be deported either. To Ovaska, who said that the position of a woman in Finland is stable: I agree. Yes, the position of Finnish women in Finland is very stable and on a good basis. But I ask: do foreign women have the same appreciation, do foreign men have the same appreciation for foreign women as Finns do for their own women? One more, to Mr Hassi: is there time for our children, especially the children and women who have been raped, to wait for the statistics you want? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u92	Mr President! I have a few comments to make. Firstly, Mr Hassi raised these police statistics and related reporting thresholds. I myself have asked the Helsinki police about this issue several times in public, for example, who always use the argument that the notification threshold has fallen in these sexual offences. I have asked what this argument is based on and the argument that the notification threshold is being calculated. I have never had any evidence of that, and I have received only silence or arrogance in response. This will be settled to the end, they will give me an answer. Do you think in other crimes that threshold has been lowered, or is it simply an attempt to explain and conceal the increase in the number of such crimes? That's a very interesting question. There is little confidence in that information. To Mr Ovaska as a comment: Unfortunately, the citizens' initiative which was discussed earlier had been the subject of a direct wording which would not have tightened up the current state of the legislation. Unfortunately, this was the case, and it is therefore good that the citizens' initiative before us does not contain direct wordings, which are often quite challenging to write, but merely sends a clear message to us decision-makers that you should take action, take care of things, stop explaining, it is up to you to get those articles in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u93	Mr President! To Mr Ovaska, too, it is now clear from the composition of this Parliament what was the policy of the past on these matters, that is, those who then exercised the most power are now somewhere else. Of course, Mr Hassi's speech was very unclear as to what is your Greens' and, when you have the Secretary of the Interior's portfolio, the Government's line of action on this matter from now on. Are you in favour of improving the safety of Finnish children, girls and women, or are some of you putting others in the most important place? Here is, although we do not want to build any confrontation, the question is inevitably ahead: do we want to safeguard the position of Finnish children and Finnish women and keep society safe in this way for all, or do you want borders to be open and whatever happens? This was kind of unclear. Indeed, no one here has called for the relaxation of the current law, as I understand it, but are you prepared to tighten it up as requested and requested by the citizens' initiative? We are prepared to act as required in the interests of the Finnish people and especially of the children.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u94	Mr President! Just as I said in my speech, the position of a foreign woman is not necessarily as good, and that is why we must ensure that a family or a woman or a man who came here alone understands the Finnish world of values, the Finnish way and the position of a woman in Finland. There have been some unfortunate stories, stories about how, for example, family rapes have occurred in asylum seekers. They are crimes that must be dealt with, but they are also situations in which these women are afraid to tell us what is happening in that family. In my opinion, this is also a place for education, and we should also involve the municipalities and social services, the school service, that when they find out there, for example, that the student is showing symptoms, that now there is not everything in the family well, it would be possible at an earlier stage to intervene and also to gather the various actors that were last talked about yesterday in the Chamber together and to pick up the root causes why, for example, the child is not well. And in many cases such factors may be found.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u95	Mr President! Mr Kankaanniemi may read from the Minutes, when it is completed, the speech I made about that toilet. Then maybe he'll understand what I said. First of all, I will correct one of the figures on what I have just said. It was not last year, but in 2016, when the amendments required by the Crime Victims Directive were adopted in Finnish legislation, which improves the status of the victim and contributes to lowering the victim's threshold to report also sexual offences. This is one of the arguments that the police have publicly announced to the public that the increase in sexual offences is primarily based on the lowering of the notification threshold. After all, the number of offences reported to the police is on a slight decline, and that is good, but in the case of sexual offences, the trend is different in the case of reported offences. The second argument the police are making to the effect that the threshold for notification has been lowered — I have already said that, but I repeat:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u96	Mr President! Today's debate shows that this citizens' initiative is important and it is good that it has come before us here in Parliament. I personally believe and hope, as I said earlier, that it will also receive proper, thorough consideration in the Committee on Administrative Affairs and then the report will come to us here in the big Chamber as well. Every sexual crime is too much — every sexual crime is too much. Whether it is committed by a person of foreign background or a person of Finnish background, but every sexual offence is too much. There should be zero tolerance. It is the centre line absolutely, and I believe it is the line for all of us here in the Chamber. I personally hope that this will also move forward. Yes, the fact is that if a person with a foreign background commits a sexual offence, the starting point must be that he can be removed from the country. In this country, as Mr Ovaska has already said, but it must also take account of our constitutions and also of the international treaties that we have. The fact is, and the starting point must be that everyone in Finland must be able to live and move safely and as they wish. That must also be our objective, and the safety of every Finnish citizen must be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u97	Mr President! When that representative, Mr Kankaanniemi, spoke earlier about the fact that those who used to exercise power are now in other situations, I cannot fail to mention when I checked the backgrounds, that even those who had exercised power on our behalf in the Administrative Committee are, as a general rule, no longer in the service, so to speak, in that way too the people have spoken and given them what they deserve. Mr Ovaska commented on this cultural aspect, which is related to the treatment of women, that the cultural aspect is so deep that no Finnish social authority can change it. It would be naive to think that this is happening because these things that we have in the future are already present elsewhere in Europe today. It is only because when certain cultures come into the country, the customs of their cultures are brought in and followed in their ways. Other European countries are already more advanced than in Finland. There are burka bans, for example. It has been said that it is necessary to deal with those matters in that way, because otherwise they will not happen. That will not change without legislation. We're going in the wrong direction. In our opinion, the Non-Discrimination Council demands that Burkini be used in swimming pools, which is completely wrong, when we should at all ban this covert dress in other places.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u98	The debate has therefore received more requests to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u99	Mr. Speaker! Let me quickly say that when there was talk here that talking about rapes has lowered the threshold for reporting, is it not even good if the threshold for reporting rapes is lowered, so that the rapists are caught?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-25-ps-37.u104	Mr President! Unlike one representative, I do believe that there is an opportunity to learn, and the most important thing is that children also learn the culture into which they come when they are very young, that they do not necessarily take all the lessons from the culture from which they have left. There are also changes in cultures. For example, there were years in Saudi Arabia when women couldn't even drive a car, and last year they got a driving licence — so that there are changes in the cultures too.
