ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-08-ps-61.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-08-ps-61.u2	Mr President! This bill is about proposing that the lease right of a socially supported rental dwelling should not be transferred. Just like the rent. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-08-ps-61.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-08-ps-61.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-08-ps-61.u5	Mr President! The representative, Mrs Schoolman, has taken a good initiative on an issue which has, understandably, raised a lot and a lot of public debate. In the case of tax-subsidised dwellings, it is essential that the aid is targeted correctly, to those in need of it, and there is no reasonable basis for transferring housing from one relative to another without any means of consideration. And despite the fact that the initiative has not collected the hundreds of names needed for committee reading, I hope that the initiative will not be buried in anything but will be taken seriously and clarified and something will be done about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-08-ps-61.u6	Mr President! It is quite a fact that living here in and outside the capital region is far too expensive for many. This bill raises a very important issue for us to discuss, and I believe that this possibility of amending legislation should now be clarified by all the actions, because it is a question of whether our housing policy is fair, whether it is up-to-date and reasonable. It is very important for the city centre that both in Helsinki and in the country as a whole everyone has access to affordable housing, and the government should adopt an active housing policy that enables affordable housing for all. When it comes to housing policy, you cannot ignore the current issue of the situation of the homeless. I think it is very important that the prevention of homelessness and access to housing for different types of special groups, such as indoor air disease, be organised much better than at present. We have far too many homeless people, and some of this homelessness is also due to the fact that we do not have healthy housing for all in Finland. When we talk about housing policy, we cannot ignore our housing support system, which needs rapid development, and I am very pleased that the government has decided to take action and is committed to the correction of housing aid in its government programme as part of a comprehensive reform of social security. This social security reform involves all parties, it is carried out parliamentaryly, and it is also important from different angles to take account of the situation in our housing policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-08-ps-61.u7	Mr President! The bill presented by Mrs. Schoolman is certainly in order. The need for tax-subsidised housing must be targeted primarily at those in need. As Mr Pelkonen well said, the needs test must remain and, above all, be genuine in this type of situation. Those apartments cannot move on in a certain way as an inheritance. In general, affordable housing is a very important objective and an important principle in all housing. We must take measures to do that, but what is particularly important is that these most affordable apartments genuinely go to those who really need them. The issue of housing allowance was also raised above, and it is true that the cost of housing allowance is around 2 billion per year, and it is certainly worth looking at as a whole. In what way is it genuinely directed at people’s ability to live, or is it so that the housing allowance is simply rolled over into increased rent costs?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-08-ps-61.u8	Mr President! In this initiative of Mrs Koulumies, it is therefore proposed that the possibility of transferring the rental right of a rented dwelling to family members be removed. This is a very welcome and good initiative. In large cities in particular, the price of living has risen unduly, and the availability of labour is often also dependent on the cost of living. It is not necessarily worth accepting a job if housing costs take so much of the income. When tax money is used to support housing, the criteria for granting housing must be equal to all, and these rented dwellings are specifically intended for the low-income, and that is why there are income limits there. Such a possibility of direct transfer to a family member is therefore an unreasonable and unfair bypass. It must always be considered separately whether the criteria for granting a dwelling are met. Rental-subsidised dwellings in cities must go to those who need them most.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-08-ps-61.u9	Mr President! It is important that people can get along on their salary. It is important for families to be able to take care of their own livelihood so that the development that has been seen in Finland in recent years, that society is increasingly and more in support of the organization of housing, can be translated back into the career that everyone, with their own livelihoods, can take care of both his own and his family's living and the cost of living in general. In this respect, I would like to see a broader debate on social policy on how to get back to this career and this principle. As such, it is certainly important that this initiative by Mrs Schoolman should be able to move forward and achieve, in this tax-subsidised housing, principles that may be generally accepted and perceived as just. But indeed, Mr President, I also call for a broader debate on a comprehensive social policy so that people can make their own living in Finland and do not really need to channel so much taxpayers' money to support people's housing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-08-ps-61.u10	Mr President! This Mrs Schoolman's bill is very good and worthy and indeed proposes that the right to rent cannot be transferred directly without consideration to her relative, which would be quite fair in this case. However, it is a very small detail in this whole housing policy system, and it is great if, as Mr Aittakumpu said, this small detail can also be taken into consideration when long-term consideration is given to the housing policy guidelines in this parliamentary work that is about to start. A short time ago, the business delegation, Eva, published a report on housing for the hardworking, in which many aspects were criticised for the whole of this tax-subsidised rental housing production, which, among other things, marginalises the construction of non-subsidised housing. I therefore hope that this parliamentary work will also take a very critical view of the whole, i.e. the way in which society should support housing. I believe that there will be a need in the coming years, in the future, because it does not seem that the growth centres will be able to build housing at the same rate as demand will increase. However, this should be pursued, and the main instrument here is the MAL agreements. I hope that now, on the part of the State, we will be very careful about what kind of housing production targets are set in growth centres, and we will try to speed up the creation and concentration of sustainable transport solutions, because these sustainable transport solutions will also create a platform for housing, housing construction, and we all know that the price of housing is affected most by the volume and demand of housing. So when we produce more and build more homes when there is demand, prices will fall, and when the situation is reversed, then they will rise. Hopefully the situation would be that, in future, people would also have more opportunities in growth centres to spend money on more than just living.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-08-ps-61.u11	Mr President! There were good points in that previous speech in Multala. I agree with these objectives of the MAL agreement and the importance of long-term housing work. There were also several very good comments in the previous debate on the importance of housing policy for us as an instrument of social policy. Of course, when we talk about the price of living, there are many other things involved. It involves, among other things, the level of pay we have here, and there are many other regulatory issues related to it, such as whether the price of housing can be regulated. However, it seems rather far-fetched to answer this question by means of this amendment to section 45 of the AHVL. I can't even find a metaphor for what microscopic creature is now being hit by some big jerk here, while a real shortage of affordable rental housing is being solved by something other than this section, because in this section, if... I do not know how well you are aware of what is said in this original law itself. It says here: ‘A renter’s permission to transfer to a spouse living in a rental right, a child belonging to a family or a This is the current text of the law, and now this proposal makes it clear that:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-08-ps-61.u12	Mr President! Let me be more specific when you mentioned that this would be about lily stumps, that in the city of Helsinki, for example, these transfers take place in up to one-tenth of all leases. In other words, if new rental dwellings are granted annually, even if 3000, 300 are transferred annually. That's a really big part of that crowd.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-08-ps-61.u13	When you have this detailed information, Mr Schoolman, please tell me, of course, how many of these do not meet these current criteria. How many of these people to whom this apartment is transferred are not in the income category? You will certainly have more detailed information on this, because there was an explanation of this issue during the last term of the government. The question of whether such periodic checks should be carried out was then examined. After all, it was found in the studies that there was no reason for them to do so because it was a marginal number of people living in such dwellings as the so-called ‘false income class’.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-08-ps-61.u14	The response button has been opened, i.e. those who wish to participate in the debate have the opportunity to do so. Since this is going to go over half anyway, so we are not going to finish this debate today, let us take this as a debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-08-ps-61.u15	Mr President! There is currently no information on this issue precisely because the income and wealth data are not revised. But I can tell you that when I was a member of the Helsinki Housing Board, which granted these rental rights, the presenting official said that the City of Helsinki had even Nokia millionaires in its rental apartments. He said there'd be Nokia millionaires there, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-08-ps-61.u16	Mr President! However, I think it is important that we talk about those who have received housing, and this is a very important subject, so I would not go into this argument. In general, legislative initiatives are also intended to stimulate debate, and in that sense I think that this is quite commendable — even though I have not been involved in this initiative, and I am not now able to tell you exactly whether it will solve the problems or not. Now I want to remind you: Here, for example, Mr Aittakumpu made a very good point about the centre of this indoor air integrity. The Finns have talked about this a lot. Now I would like to remind you that all of us municipal decision-makers are currently in the council making next year's budget, and at least The Finns of Hyvinkää are planning to put Hyvinkää’s rental housing as a corporate steering goal that there should be a sufficient number of indoor-air-free apartments. Now everyone here who is pretending to be or who is concerned about this is going to do the same. There is now an opportunity for the councils to provide corporate governance. It is a concrete measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-08-ps-61.u17	Mr President! This is, in itself, a highly philosophical initiative. The aim here is for as many people as possible who have little money to have access to the apartment where they want it. But in reality, as has already been said here, particularly through Mr Multala, this housing policy is not yet fully resolved. This current government has now supported much stronger support for the ARA settlement. There might be a partial solution. At the same time, although this philosophically is a well - supported initiative, it must also be taken into account that these people may have been born into that home and grown up there, and there are also circuits. Throwing them out of their home is also difficult, and therefore this kind of consideration must be allowed to be made, and that is what the current law allows.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-08-ps-61.u18	Mr President! I absolutely support this initiative by Mrs Schoolman, which is therefore intended to be very clear. Society's support and security must be directed at those who really need it. Tax-supported housing should not be targeted at those who otherwise manage. Of course, when applying for a dwelling, this consideration of needs and income will be done, but when the rental right is transferred to a relative, the need and income level will not be considered. So we have such an amazing situation in Finland that the rental right for subsidised rental housing can be transferred to a relative without an examination of income or wealth levels, and I am really surprised that this bill is being opposed here to the left, to the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-08-ps-61.u19	Mr President! The initiative is truly excellent and supported in order to achieve clarity on this issue, which is unclear and interpretable, and these dwellings actually end up with those who need them the most. The lack of affordable housing in growth centres is a national problem. Since 2013, I have been going through various studies on affordable housing: how to take this issue forward, how to answer it. A huge amount of text has been produced, there are different approaches, but it is precisely none of these programmes and studies that have produced it for the most important objective and result: to create affordable housing. This is something that, Mr President, this Parliament should now have more debate and even if one of the parliamentary groups is to think about,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-08-ps-61.u20	Mr President! It is really essential that everyone in need should have a home in this country. On the basis of this debate, I do not yet have the courage to say what is the most impressive way forward in this particular proposed model, but it is always wonderful when housing policy is discussed in this Chamber and especially when there is strong support for promoting affordable housing and active housing policy in general. Like Mr Multala, I also stress the importance of the MAL agreements in order to move forward. The hillside government has ambitious goals to eliminate homelessness. Of course, housing construction alone does not solve this problem, nor does technical changes to housing legislation, but it also requires a lot of investment in housing advice, for example, so that the home can be held to. One of the groups I saw in honor of Youth Policy Week is the young people and students who have a lot to improve in their housing situation. Fortunately, this too has been seized, but a message has been sent to the municipalities to get shovels.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-08-ps-61.u21	Mr President! I asked to speak on behalf of Mr Vestman. This is Congressman Lohikoski speaking. He is a representative of the Left Alliance, and I understand he did not question the idea behind that bill either. He merely stated that, within the framework of this current legislation, this examination is possible. Mr Al-Taee was the only Social Democrat who spoke here this afternoon, and on the contrary he expressed his support. He said that, on a philosophical level, this bill is very good. And now, as far as the Socialist Group is concerned, I think it is a good idea that, when we support housing with tax money, it must indeed be targeted where the need is greatest. In our society, we cannot afford to support the rental housing of the well-off in a situation where:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-08-ps-61.u22	Mr President! We must be surprised at this debate, which has risen from this excellent initiative of Mrs Koulumies to prevent the transfer of a rental dwelling to a relative. There is no assessment of a relative’s need for a home. Of course, this is not about throwing people out of the apartment, it is about transferring the dwelling to a relative, not about the person's own need for housing. This really does not solve the whole issue of housing policy, certainly not. This is one part of it. But if we are not prepared to change these parts of housing policy, then we will never get any effective housing policy. That's what this life is all about, it's made up of different parts, and this is one part of it. According to a schoolman, approximately 300 apartments in Helsinki are transferred on these grounds. It is a large number, and then what is it on the Finnish scale?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-08-ps-61.u23	Mr President! Indeed, we are going to have a parliamentary – I believe – composition to resolve housing policy over a longer period of time. Furthermore, we have very good records on housing policy in the Government Programme, so it is certainly not a question of something being resolved with this very bill, but the key to the solution is elsewhere. But now I am very surprised that the representatives of this House have just given the impression, as it were, that these relatives are simply moving those homes, while I continue to stress that the existing law is talking about a person who already lives in that apartment. It's his home. And from 2018, we have the City of Helsinki's position that very few housing units across income limits live in the city's rented dwellings. After all, at the time the city was specifically opposed to this deadline because it was not found that such a problem was so great. It was studied and the statistics showed,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-08-ps-61.u24	And the last response, Mr Multala.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-08-ps-61.u25	Mr President! I would now like to correct a few misunderstandings, perhaps. Firstly, at least I did not think that this would correct all the problems, but this is one small part of them. We have an instrument that explicitly supports housing for those who need it in particular, and it always includes a means test, and it is housing support. In the opinion of many researchers, this is the most effective way of providing explicit support to those who need it, particularly those who need it. This ARA-supported production involves many other kinds of problems, and I therefore call on everyone, especially those who will sit in that housing working group, to take note of this report from the Industry delegation on the challenges of ARA housing. My message was that the MAL agreement should place particular emphasis on the number of non-subsidised dwellings and not on this ARA housing, which may lead to cities actually reaching a much lower target for housing production.
