ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 28/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u2	Madam President! I have been a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry for 12 years. I have rarely objected, whether I was a member of the government party or a member of the opposition. My objections have generally concerned fish and fish quotas. I have had excellent cooperation with Minister Leppa over the past 12 years. I've learned to trust his opinions and his expertise. That's what I'm doing now. As the government's proposal shows, Finland prepares for the arrival of the gold jackal by making it a game animal to be hunted before the species is spread here. [Fresh—The President-in-Office] Leaving a jackal as a foreign species is not a viable option, because the golden jackal spread from the east to Finland itself would become an alien species, not an alien species. In such cases, the foreign species legislation does not apply to gold jackals. It is also a species in accordance with Annex V of the EU Habitats Directive and its favourable conservation status must not be jeopardised. We must ensure that our legislation complies with the requirements of the directive. Since it is not possible to apply alien species legislation to gold jackals if it comes here naturally, the species should be added to game hunting animals. This makes it possible to regulate the position of jackals in accordance with the Habitats Directive by hunting where necessary. If the golden jackal were left as an alien species and spreads here naturally and would not have been regulated as a game, it would lead to a calming of the species under the Nature Conservation Act. This would require an exemption for the removal of the golden jackal and would run the risk of spreading and establishing itself in our natural environment before we could go to restrict it. I am afraid that the proposal by the majority of the committee will lead us to have a new white goose, which the public abhors but which is protected by environmental management and nature conservation organisations. I'm afraid we're going to have a new cormorade in our country. In Åland, for example, the game administration provides an exemption for hunting the cormorants, and there it is no problem at all — when the environmental management in Finland saves the cormorta. This shows that regulating problematic species under game management is the right way to manage the problems or risks they pose.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u3	Madam President! I agree with Mr Nylund's view of the gold jackal. That's a little bit more later. The Government’s proposal to amend Articles 8 and 16 of the Act on the Management of Risks of Alien Species and the Hunting Act thus seeks to strengthen the means of preventing the spread of invasive birds and other alien mammals. The aim is also to improve the management of alien risks in order to safeguard biodiversity, both of which are highly supported and necessary. This regulation and non-proliferation of invasive alien species must take account of efficiency and safety, but also of animal welfare requirements and ethical sustainability. In this respect, the Government’s bill does not take sufficient account of the requirements. In its expert opinion, the Finnish Game Centre stated, among other things, that since many alien species are species of game or significant game catch species or affect game species populations, expertise in hunting is also needed to combat and control them, which is right. The game centre also noted that it may be necessary to use effective means to combat invasive alien species, but some of the specific measures that may be necessary are better suited to a case-by-case approach when carried out professionally. If killing raccoons, mink, muskrats, raccoons and marshmallows were no longer required to carry out a hunting card, it would not be possible to control the fact that, first of all, the person who kills and hunts these animals correctly — does not mix them with other species — and knows the requirements of the hunting law and the animal welfare law, as is required in the performance of the hunting card. Mr President! The Hunting Federation has also considered it important that any game or unsettled animal should continue to be killed by a professional person, such as a hunter. Several interested parties, as well as the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, have found it unlikely that in the future, non-hunters would be involved in the hunting of invasive alien species, especially in the killing of the animals caught. A person who intends to catch or kill an unsettled animal must be familiar with the requirements of the Hunting Act and the Animal Protection Act. In addition, errors in the identification of species or compliance with the requirements of the legislation are punishable. Against this background, it is a little difficult to justify why we should not continue to demand that hunting cards be issued by those who catch and quit these species. Mr President! With regard to compliance with animal welfare rules, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry in its reply to the committee stated that, in the preparation of a Government decree under the Alien Species Act, it was to be considered that the mother moving with the same year's chicks would be sedated, as is the case today, and that the regulation would also provide for the severance of silicone nests, as is the case with the current legislation. At the same time, according to the Ministry, there should be a clear provision for such fishing as mink or raccoon dog hunting to be carried out on an animal without pups without breaking the motherrest. It is not very ethically sustainable to think that we would ignore it in the future if the animal being caught had chicks in its nest and would be left there to starve and die. Under current legislation, this has been taken into account and I believe that this should continue to be the case. Then, Mr President, with regard to that gold jackal, it is indeed exceptional that the only opposition representatives in the committee in relation to this point in the draft law remained to support the government's own motion. We all believe that the goal is that the golden jackal, which is a southern European species and is not yet present in Finland, should not be spread here. It will be harmful to our own natural species, especially the nestling bird. However, the means of limiting the spread of that gold jackal are limited in the light of existing EU legislation, which we cannot break. That is why, Mr President, like Mr Nylund, I support the adoption of that second bill in the government bill without changing a single section of the government proposal, so that the gold jackal actually moves to hunting game species, so that we can at least try to limit the spread of the gold jackal to Finland. Mr President! I will also protest in my statements that the Government Decree adopted under the Alien Species Act provides for the tranquilisation of raccoons, marshmallows, raccoons and mink with chicks of the same year and for the secession of muskrats as in the current legislation and that fishing for these species should continue to be possible only for the holder of a valid hunting card.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u4	Madam President! In my own region, a raccoon dog causes great harm and has spread quite quickly. It also takes us hunters a lot of time to keep that species in check and, on the other hand, to give space, for example, to the birdhouse from the point of view of nesting peace, and I welcome the fact that hunting for raccoons is now being facilitated. It is an exceptionally harmful alien species, and in this legislation as a whole, there is a desire to improve the management of the risks posed by alien species. There is not even any precise information on how many raccoon dogs there are in Finland, but there are well over 100,000 of them hunted annually, estimated to be as much as 170,000, and yet the species, whose stocks actually vary quite a lot on an annual basis, has been strengthened. I welcome the fact that we are now giving the opportunity to remove the raccoon dog from the wild more effectively. It is also the best nature conservation for the species that belong here in our Finnish nature. I also welcome the fact that it is proposed to amend the hunting law so that the law will no longer apply to raccoons, muskrats, marshmallows and raccoons, which are therefore defined by European Union legislation as harmful alien species. The Hunting Act would no longer apply to mink, which is defined as a nationally significant invasive alien species. These must give our responsible hunters better means and conditions to control harmful alien species, and I see it as very valuable. The same applies, in fact, to the golden jackal, which is spreading here and will be a very harmful newcomer to our birdhouse if it gets here. I welcome the fact that this position can also be constrained and, in fact, prevented from spreading to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u5	Madam President! A very rare situation is that I feel that I agree with both the RKP and the Greens. This has not happened so many times. It seems reasonable that, in the future, gold jackals should be regarded as a particular species of hunting and not merely as an alien species, i.e. it would be specifically placed under the game regime, as has been said by the Game Centre. Indeed, it is a species that is spreading to Finland, this golden jackal, as was the case in the past with mink and raccoon dogs, which are very harmful animals. I myself am not a member of this committee and I do not have any substance in that way, but since I was 90 years old, since I was 15 years old, I have had a hunter's degree and always paid the game care fee, so I understand this problem of gold jackals, which is what it is. Yes, I believe that such harmful alien species should be closed down and that hunters, hunting-cortical hunters, in particular, would be the right place to carry this out. But as much as I'm a little unsure about what Nylund was saying here: Surely it is not the case here that if the golden jackal were to be classified as a hunting species, do I remember correctly that there is still an EU point, that we should allow a certain position to be formed from a gold jackal here to the ground, so that it can be classified as a kind of hunting species and then go this way, as Mr Nylund put it? If that is the case, then I will certainly not be able to support this otherwise very good-sounding performance by Nylund, because I do not want a position to be formed here on a completely useless alien species.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u7	Madam President! This proximity to the elections seemed to extend to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, which was generally quite stable when this proposal for a foreign species was discussed. It must be said from the outset that the Finnish hunting culture is very, very responsible and seeks responsible stock management. But when we talked about this alien show, it must be said that it was this gold jackal that went a little too far. We received an in-depth report from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry that only if the gold jackal is included in the hunting law can the position be reduced in the future. The golden jackal spreads naturally to Finland, and if we now impose it on alien species, it will not be possible to remove it. This was quite clear on the basis of these expert consultations, and in this respect Mr Nylund's proposal is quite right, and we Social Democrats support it. Then, President, it must be said that in the case of wildlife too, reducing suffering is absolutely essential. And here I would like to refer to the opinion of animal welfare associations and organisations that the proposal in this regard may not be quite complete. I am referring in particular to the hive solace for the species now transferred from hunting game to alien species, i.e. raccoons, muskrats, marshmallows, raccoons, and mink. When the chicks move with the mother, we talk about a time like that when these animals should be reassured. I therefore support this proposal made by Mrs Halmemenpää that the Government regulation should continue to provide for hive relief for these species as it is today.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u8	Yes, Madam President! I myself am not a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and have not taken part in this internal debate, but I have now listened to this debate and I have looked at the background on it, and I certainly believe that, for example, these efforts by Mrs Halmemenpää are worthy and necessary. I believe that Mrs Tuppurainen, in her recent good and well-founded speech, has highlighted the important principle that it is also important for wild animals that we should be able to minimise suffering. I think it is a matter of very civilised principles, and I am sure that, ladies and gentlemen, it is also noteworthy that, for example, the Hunting Federation, as has been said here, stresses in its own statement that it is not ethical to kill a female with puppies, for example. I think it is self-evident and such a good principle, and that is why I think it is important that we continue to respect this hive-scathed as we do today. With these words I would like to say that, for my part too, I agree with these statements made by Mrs Halmenpää, and I think it would be good and ethical for the whole House to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u9	Madam President! I too am not a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and have unfortunately not been able to hear expert consultations and participate in this drafting of legislation, but I know that there has been a great deal of concern about the methods and means of catching the amendment. A rashly interpreted amendment of the law could cause confusion, and it would therefore be unclear who is allowed to hunt and what and by what means. For example, the EU has not defined how the strain of invasive alien species is managed. Hunters have knowledge of species, there is certainly no doubt about it, but the layman cannot distinguish between, for example, European and Canadian beavers, so the beaver nests should at least be protected. Many good speeches have been made here in connection with nesting and nesting peace, and I hope that we will also clarify whether foreign species can be hunted during the breeding season. The one who killed the mother would cause the young to starve to death and therefore unethical death.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u10	Mr President! For over 40 years and nearly 30 years, I have been hunting other people along with the police. Hunting is practiced and practiced according to the provisions of the hunting law. Article 1 of the Hunting Act, Chapter 1 ‘This Act applies to hunting and the catching and killing of unsettled animals and to game management. “ It’s one of the things that’s good for Article 3 of the same Act, Definition of game management: ‘Risk management is intended to serve as an activity for the regulation of game stocks,to safeguard or improve the living As stated quite clearly in the Hunting Act, the aim is to increase and improve the game population. When Mr Eerola was thinking that if we now transferred this gold jackal to the hunting law, would this change in the law mean that this gold jackal stock should be increased, that is exactly what it means. It is stated quite clearly and quite directly in the hunting law. If the golden jackal were to be transferred to the species to be hunted, the first task is to protect the golden jackal stock by responsible hunters in such a way that it can withstand hunting because that is what the hunting law defines. The game must not be hunted until the game stock is resistant to hunting. Only when the stocks of gold are at a level that can withstand taxation will they be able to survive the hunt, only then would they be given individual depreciation permits and they would start hunting like any other game stock. But it specifically requires even hundreds of animals to be on the ground before we can carry on hunting. In this case, in my opinion, we can raise our hands: if a gold jackal can nest in Finland and spread so that there is a stock in the country that can withstand hunting, then we have lost this game. This is a very serious threat to the rest of the game, which is why, of course, I have listened to experts in committee, but I have also heard dozens of different hunting experts calling and emails and getting messages from that field, including Estonia. In Estonia, this species is a harmful alien species, and the Estonians say that under no circumstances allow this species to be hunted, do not allow this to be included in the hunting law, because they have already lost this game. Only by being a harmful alien species can this animal be removed. And that is why I proposed in the committee that we keep the golden jackal as a harmful alien species, and I hope that when we vote in the Chamber, this position will also be won. Gold jackals must not be allowed into Finland. It's my will mode.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u11	Mr President! There has not been a single opinion in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry that should allow the golden jackal to spread to Finland. There is a complete and unambiguous consensus that a golden jackal, a southern European species, a predator of a size between fox and wolf, would not be desired in Finland. But there is such a difference in our proposals that the second proposal does not take into account and does not intend to comply with European Union directives, which are also binding legislation in Finland at national level. In the second proposal, the existing legislation on directives will be taken into account, because we cannot go around it, we cannot get over it, we cannot get around it, and we cannot change any of the European Union directives in this House. So in the committee, the officials of the ministry have assured us, under official responsibility, that the only way to try to limit the spread of the gold jackal into the wild is precisely to designate it as game of the hunting law, so that its individuals, who are at the external borders of their natural territory, can be removed until it spreads out more, which we will then be unable to prevent by any means. But as long as only individual gold jackals spread to Finland, the only way to remove them effectively is to name them a game of gold jackal, so they can be shot.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u12	Madam President! This is a typical example of what decision-making today means at national level. This whole hall seems to agree: gold jackal must not be allowed into Finland. Then there's a fight. So it seems that we are not for Finland’s nature, nor are we for the Finnish hunters or for the Finnish people here, but we are here for administration and bureaucracy – otherwise there would be no dispute. I see for myself the same way as Mr Hongisto, that if it is put into the hunting law as a game animal, then Article 3 shall apply. It cannot be hunted unless the stock is suitable and favourable, and then the stock management planning and everything begins. As Mr Hongisto said, Estonia has acted differently, and when it is a harmful alien species it is a no-go here — an absolute ban on entry. I don't understand how you can get into a fight about these things. I guess Finland should be able to decide something for itself now. If the gold jackal is the most skilled jackal to catch larger animals with a group and at the same time eats birds and everything, why should it be worth getting it to Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u13	As Mr Halmemenpää said, no one here wants a gold jackal in Finland. Now this is just a matter of how to catch up. Mr Hongisto said that the situation in Estonia has been lost and do not make the same mistake — but it is an alien species. It's not a game animal, it's an alien species, and that's where the situation is lost. I do not believe that there is such a right solution here, but that both legislative models may lead to the same situation. If there is an alien species and it walks across the border, then it must be protected according to Annex V of the Habitats Directive. If it becomes a game animal again, then there are 2 or 3 §s Pretends that it needs to be protected. I do not know, but when Minister Leppä — which I believe very much and have been with him since 99 years in the same committee — told me that this is the best way forward, I do wonder about the MPs of the government parties. But on the same day the government broke up and it didn't matter whether or not to defend the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u14	Madam President! We're in a rather challenging situation here. I myself have also been hunting for a very long time — and I have been hunting for Mr Hongisto and Mr Estilä and Mr Leppä and Mr Nylund — and this is a difficult situation in that I have always relied on Minister Leppa and on the arguments why the government has brought this proposal here. I myself have been chairman of the game management association for over a decade, and yet I consider it important that hunting based on this kind of law must be the starting point, and then we can act on the basis of laws, regulations and natural values. There have now been a great many contacts with me on this issue too, and at least that association of hunters has the view that it should be in line with the government's proposal, and I am sure that Mr Nylund's opening statement was justified in that regard. It seems that we will be able to vote on this at some point, so that we can see what the situation is.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u15	Madam President! Just as Mr Reijonen has said here, this is also the position of the Hunters' Association, and this is the position of the officials of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, and this is the bill presented by Minister Leppa, that the gold jackal should be transferred to the game sport of the hunting law, and that is what should be done. There is no gold jackal tail on this issue. The sincere objective is to prevent the spread of gold jackals to Finland as effectively as possible. It should be understood that it is one thing to understand whether a gold jackal comes to Finland with a human being in someone’s suitcase, in a caricature, or whether it is walking across the border itself, as it is very likely to come from that eastern border through the Baltic countries and through south-eastern Finland. When it walks in here itself, the gold jackal is not a foreign species under the law and cannot be claimed to be so, no matter how much you want it to be. It will then be a naturally spread alien species and cannot be handled in accordance with the Alien Species Act. It's not a working method. Mr President! It has to be said that although the golden jackal is a species of Annex V to the Habitats Directive, it can be regulated as a game of hunting law and can then be removed by hunting.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u16	Then I guess I'll go on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u17	Mr President! If I correctly interpreted it, it doesn't matter whether it is done in accordance with the government's proposal or whether it is done in accordance with this report, that is, the common position of the parties to the government: the end will be the same if you listen to these speeches, and that is why this is a contradiction. I myself assume that Finland should be able to define its own position on the gold jackal. The whole hall seems to think that it should not be allowed in here, because we have a lot of game species here and these are very good at hunting and breeding. When we have a wolf problem, there's gonna be a gold jackal problem. And when it is in the Hunting Act, then, as Mr Hongisto said, the position must be dealt with and sufficient, according to Article 3, and then we will be in the same situation. But it should also be possible to justify to the EU that Finland really wants to keep this different game population here and the birds and all that are being hunted and that, in addition to the wolverines and wolves and many other predators, we can no longer afford to have another predatory predator so that we can have another problem in addition to this wolf problem. That's what this is all about. All of us in the committee understand that this is a bit like this administrative interpretation issue. But let us hope that whoever is right, the end result is that the gold jackal will not come to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u18	We're dealing with a lot more than this gold jackal. I'd intervene in this raccoon dog and mink. It has just come to light that quite a few of our species of birds are endangered. On that coast, where the mink is quite common, it is also the cause of great harm to the water bird. And now that Congressman Halmemenpää says that during the nesting season neither mink nor raccoon dog should be shot, the waterbirds were washed at the same time. So while the waterbirds nest, you shouldn't hunt mink. Well, the result is that birds disappear and minks remain and there are even more of them than there were originally. The same goes for the raccoon dog. It has spread very widely to Central Finland and also to Western Finland. If you drive on Route Three from Helsinki to Tampere, you will see more dead raccoons on one journey. So this is a major problem for waterbirds in Central Finland and Western Finland. Therefore, and when they are alien species, I do not think there is any need to protect them during the breeding season, but to hunt as is the case with the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u19	Madam President! I fully agree with Mrs Wallin that raccoon dog and mink are extremely harmful to our breeding bird. At the same time, however, I believe that it is neither acceptable nor ethically acceptable to ask for the dams that will follow their mothers. I would point out to Mrs Wallin and everyone else that it is not intended that mink and raccoon dog should not be hunted at all during the breeding season, but that what the Ministry is saying in its reply is that we should provide for a calming down to the mother of the same year, as is the case today — i.e. if the chicks follow the mother, the mother is protected, but if the young do not show up, the mother can be hunted — and would be regulated in the same way as at present. There would therefore be no change to the current situation, and the Ministry would also point out that it should be more clearly stipulated that iron fishing and trapping of raccoons could in principle be carried out without breaking the motherrest. This is my own goal. Mr President! As far as that gold jackal is concerned, which gives rise to a lot of debate and perhaps a little feeling as to whether it is possible to go according to the regulations or whether it should go contrary to the regulations in order to achieve the desired goal, it must be stated that the wild species of mammals and birds in Finland are, as a general rule, covered either by the Alien Species Act or by the Hunting Act. Gold jackal, which is currently not present in Finland, is currently regulated by the legislation in force as a national invasive alien species. It is prohibited to import, trade and land it in the wild, and this is good. So you would think that in practice there are ways to prevent a species from coming to Finland by man and to remove from nature the individuals who end up there by man. That's right. The golden jackal spreads further north, and it is assumed that, even in a relatively short period of time, it naturally spreads to Finland through the Baltic countries and Russia — that is to say, it walks here itself. Then it's not an alien species. We're making it a newer species. According to the Ministry’s response to the committee, the first sightings of gold bulls in Finland are likely to come from individual lives. However, on the basis of these findings, it would not necessarily be possible to determine whether those specimens were naturally introduced or released by man because of human activity within the meaning of alien species legislation, or whether the specimens of the species were naturally spread here. When brought by man, the golden jackal is still an alien species. The gold jackal, which is naturally spread to Finland, would therefore be an alien species, not an alien species. The Alien Species Act does not apply to alien species. The golden jackal naturally spread to Finland would automatically — not by a separate decision but automatically — also be a protected species within the meaning of the Nature Conservation Act, as would all other wild species in Finland that are not unsettled or game species in accordance with the Hunting Act. And here's the essence of the poodle. Therefore, the golden jackal must be adapted to the game species so that it does not automatically become a protected species in accordance with the Nature Conservation Act. The golden jackal is also a species of Annex V to the Habitats Directive, we cannot get over it or around it, not by the decisions of this Chamber. Therefore, the gold jackal cannot be rendered an unsettled species of hunting law. However, the Habitats Directive does not apply to individual stray individuals at or outside the external borders of their natural range. Gold jackals may be adjusted as game according to the Hunting Act. Unless, in accordance with the Government’s proposal, the gold jackal is now transferred from the alien species to the game species referred to in the Alien Species Act, it follows a situation in which the killing of specimens naturally spread to Finland is prohibited under the Nature Conservation Act until the species is introduced into the game species. This would allow the golden jackal to spread and become part of our natural species much faster than in a situation where it has been pre-ordained as a game, as the government suggests. When establishing the game species, the first individuals wandering to Finland at the external borders of their natural range of golden jackals can be removed by hunting and thus limit the rapid spread of the stock. The impact of gold jackal on our original animal species as an efficient predator would probably be significantly negative. However, since the spread of gold jackal to Finland cannot be prevented by any means, nor by the validity of the Habitats Directive, in order to protect the current wild species, it would be best for gold jackal to be pre-regulated as game, as proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u20	Madam President! Mr Halmenpää has already said almost everything, but I am trying very closely to say what I have to say. Everyone believes that the golden jackal must be kept out of Finland for as long as possible and effectively as a very harmful species to the native species of our country. That's what everyone thinks. We know that there is already a growing stock of gold jackals in Estonia, and the species is known to be able to travel long distances. It follows — just as Mr Halmemenpää said — that if and when the golden jackal itself naturally spreads to Finland from the east, for example, then it is an alien species, no longer an alien species, because the alien species law does not apply to the gold jackal in this case. Well, if a hunter shoots a gold jackal in that situation, there's a chance he'll commit a nature crime. So if it is now introduced as a game animal, then of course the hunter’s legal protection will be considerably improved. And just as Mr Halmemenpää said, the Commission has stated that although the gold jackal is an important species of the Community in Annex V to the EU Habitats Directive, it is possible to remove animal specimens that are not present in the natural habitat of the species, which means that if it is laid down as a game species, we can remove it even if it comes here naturally. So in all its shortness: Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Game Administration, Finnish Hunting Federation and I want to make the gold jackal a game animal. Who wants anything else? Representative Hongisto, majority of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Finnish Ministry of the Environment, Finnish Nature Conservation Association. The question is: do we rely more on game management or on environmental management? If this law is now laid down in this form as stated in the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the final result is that it will be under environmental management as soon as it naturally spreads to Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u21	Madam President! I am not in this committee, but I have listened with interest to these various arguments and I have read these objections and, in fact, I hope to speak later on from the representatives of Nylund and Halmemenpää on which I understand that you had a few different objections. I was reading these arguments. The end of the flood and the will state all seem to have the same feeling that this game-animal jackal would not spread here to Finland. But when I looked at this objection — for example, the removal of the hunting card requirement for five species of mammals — the Finnish Hunting Federation has considered it important that skilled people kill animals. I personally believe that we must kill if there is a harassing wolf or if there is a harmful strain spreading, but I want it to be carried out by a person who knows which species he kills, I want it done by a person who knows how to do it. I appreciate Mr Hongisto’s expertise, but I was disturbed by the fact that ‘in the event of a meeting,’ you used such a word,and I thought that if one of you is missing a type of driving —however he will — he may not want to know. I always hope that in all the killings of animals it will be done as painlessly and as quickly as possible, and if a person does not have any training or knowledge, then I am concerned about a little bit. Furthermore, I always wonder about the attitude that if someone is so-called free game, then it does turn a little bit into street talk to get the boys to break their necks on this and this species. In other words, I hope that it will remain genuinely human because I cannot accept that animals should be treated as such. It must always be remembered that they feel the same pain and pain, so that I want to be human in that way that if someone has to stop, then it is done by professionals and properly. And by no means can I ever support killing the puppies and starving them to death, so that is when the whole wash should be stopped — I guess everyone now understands that it cannot under any circumstances be human. As I looked here at these statements, the Game Center and the Hunting League were indeed in line with the objection. I'm counting on the Hunter League. My father also hunts and tells me a lot, and my nephew has started hunting now and is very excited about it, but they are professional and competent, distinguishive, and care for winter feeding, for example, elk and deer, and they are animal-loving people, but they want to keep the stocks in order. In this bill, for those who took it this way that, if necessary, to be removed, there is such a feeling that the boys are going to break their necks in the evening and they don't care how it feels. That's the way it is. I'm sorry. And that is why I would like to hear if there were some differences, so that I could see which objection I personally would go behind, because I am not prepared to do anything cold, and if the result is the same in both respects, that the position cannot spread. I think Mr Halmemenpää made it very clear that if they are defined as game animals then they can be hunted. But always skilled people must be doing when pain and suffering may be inflicted on living animals, that is, I am not allowing the wild west to go.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u22	Mr President! Representative Meri, I feel and think exactly as you spoke there. You said it when I used the word "remove". This kind of "removal" term is quite stable and common when it comes to large-scale game support provided by hunters to the police. These officials are not going to kill an animal injured in an accident or a stray bear, but to provide official assistance which will result in the removal or killing of this animal. This "remove" term is normal. Yes, there is nothing about the boy’s gang getting their necks torn or something else. In this regard, I would like to point out that responsible hunters do not use this language. We want to put an end to animal suffering as quickly and effectively as possible with the most appropriate instrument, and it is not in anyone's interest to keep the animal alive and to torture it. It is not the activity of healthy people. However, Mr President, Mrs Wallin, whom I appreciated, made a good speech there. He was concerned, for example, about the hunting of raccoons and mink during the breeding season, and I agree exactly with Mrs Wallin that when you want to remove such a harmful strain, it must be removed as effectively as possible during the breeding season. Well, Mr Halmemenpää reacted, if I understood correctly, quite the opposite. Mr Halmeenpää questioned whether it was right that these animals should be removed during the breeding period and, when I listened to Mr Halmeenpää's speech, I thought that if and when this golden jackal was transferred to the hunting law it would then be affected in exactly the same way as I said in my previous speech. It would seem strange that a gold jackal can be removed at the time of breeding, but not a mink or a raccoon dog. Yes, the hunting law applies to all animals in the same way. As I have said, I have observed and demanded compliance with the hunting law from others, and the hunting law quite clearly states that the game animal is only hunted after its game animal population endures hunting. It must be estimated that it is at a sustainable level of hunting. And so I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, who want the golden jackal to be transferred to the hunting law, how do you interpret this matter? What do you think should be done when, under the hunting law, the golden jackal is calmed and threatened, the gold jackals are placed, the DNA samples of the gold jackals are collected and the gold jackals are analysed? How much money and stuff is going to go into this? How do you think we should interpret whether the hunting law or some other law is being followed? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u23	Mr President! I am pleased in that speech by Mr Hongisto that he said that he has no hope of this kind, that we should leave at night and pick off. But you did say that responsible hunters did not do so and so and so forth. I understand that there is no need for a hunting card here, and I think that is what bothers me right now that anyone can go with their own styles, so to speak, to remove it. And this removal means killing if you say in Finnish — then you don’t have to embellish it, that’s what it’s all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u24	Mr President! The only conclusion I can come now is that, unfortunately, Mr Hongisto may have a somewhat purposeful way of trying to tell us that the opposition representatives have been involved in the protection of the golden jackal in the committee, when it is precisely there that we have advocated that the golden jackal should be introduced into the game of the hunting law, so that it can be prevented from spreading to Finland in the most effective way in which it exists, and that is the only objective. It is quite difficult to propose protection for gold jackals when gold jackals in Finland do not even appear at the moment. We are now at the point where efforts are being made to find ways to prevent it from spreading to Finland, and that is why we are at the forefront of this issue. Mr Merelle will later say what the difference between these objections is, but at least that is not the difference between us — both Nylund, supported by the demars and the Left Alliance, and myself — and me — in the same way, in this regard, that the golden jackal is a game of hunting law.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u25	Mr President! I have said that we all have, as many speakers have heard, a similar state of mind, a state of ambition. This is kind of like a navigational contest: we all know where the last check is, everyone wants to find the last check, but now it is just a question of choosing a route, whether the swamp is to be rotated from the right or to cross the mountain from the left. The choice of route is a matter of choice; it is certainly not a matter of anyone's will, and I personally represent the position that keeping a gold jackal as a foreign species is a better route choice than being transferred to the hunting law. That's all this is about.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u26	Mr President! It does seem strange, though, for the representative of the Sea to speak about the importance of the Hunter's degree. It does not provide any capability for shooting, only species identification and calibres, and thus away. I have those books on that desk shelf, and I'm gonna do it now that I'm out of Parliament. A friend of mine, Ilkka Taipale, graduated a hunter's degree and he hasn't gotten a gun. I've had a gun, but I haven't had a hunter's degree. Having a hunter's degree doesn't guarantee you get a gun, but it can make it easier for you to get it. So now that I'm retiring and living in Central Finland, I'm going to get a raccoon trap, which is probably going to be a raccoon dog pretty soon. This legislation requires me to go to such an expert hunter and tell him that you will stop that raccoon dog. There's nothing to shoot here and there, and no one can kill. Poisons are banned, and the only person who can get the gun is who gets the police's permission, which means that it is very thorough and regulated — that there is no false impression of the significance of the hunter's degree. It just gives us a chance to identify.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u27	Mr President! This is not my idea, but it is from here in the committee's objection that I see what the Hunter Federation has said about the departure of the hunting card requirement. It has considered it important that it should be maintained, and the Hunters' Association, when it was informed of the preparation of the legislative amendment, has considered it important that any game or unsettled animal should continue to be killed by a professional person, such as a hunter. This is where I get these. I am no expert myself, but now I do not know how you feel about this. Would it have to be a person who recognizes an animal and knows how to use weapons, or could it be any one of you? That's what I couldn't figure out now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u28	There is Mrs Halmemenpää and Mrs Wallin, and then we go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u29	Mr President! What Mr Hongisto said about the choice of route is precisely the difference. The goal is the same: to limit the spread of gold jackal to Finland. I am in favour of choosing a route that is in accordance with the law, not a non-legislative route.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u30	Mr Meri, you said that any group of boys could go out tonight to stop the animals. This is not the case with a report or legislation. It is exactly as you read in the report that the animal can only be killed by someone who is a skilled person, probably a hunter. But this degree doesn't give you any ability to shoot it, but you must still have it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u31	We'll go to that list of speakers from time to time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u32	Mr President! After this mess — a lot of experts were leaning on it and we saw how it turned out — there is a little wonder that this too is going to be such a big debate. Of course, I would like to send this to the Constitutional Committee so that it does not violate the rights of the golden jackal, but I do not think there is a Constitutional Committee anymore.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u35	Congressman Halmemenpää, from the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u36	Mr President! I would now like to try to make it clear why it cannot be removed just when we meet if it is kept here on the list of alien species: because we cannot always be sure whether it is a alien species defined in accordance with the EU's Alien Species Regulation or whether it has walked here itself, which means it is not an alien species. That is the problem of interpretation that comes both to the authorities and to the courts, how can it be proved which gold jackal was brought here in someone's trunk or released into the wild, and what had walked here himself when a hunter shoots a gold jackal? I, for one, would like to ensure that the hunter can remove the gold jackal when he meets safely, without wondering whether this will be a criminal charge. Then it has to be a game. Indeed, the EU Alien Species Regulation applies to all invasive alien species, which refer to a live specimen imported outside its natural range. The Alien Species Regulation does not apply to species whose natural range changes other than as a result of human activity. So if that gold jackal comes in here himself, it's not an alien species. At least I do not want the hunters who shoot the gold jackal to be held responsible for the good deed of trying to prevent the spread of the gold jackal to Finland. That's the problem. We in the opposition want a legislative bill to safeguard the legal protection of hunters, which is a proposal in line with the government's proposal at the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u37	Madam President! First of all, to Mrs Merelle: my protest, which was also signed by the Social Democrats, the Left and the Christian Democrats, goes one to one according to the original government proposal, which is where I propose amendments to three paragraphs 2. in a bill of law. So it's really easy, and the arguments go the same way, that's all. There is the only difference that Mr Halmenpää suggests otherwise. And for Mr Hongisto on the choice of line: I believe that monitoring, panting, pagers and DNA surveys are specifically about animals under environmental control, not game animals. Let's not give this the wrong idea. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u38	Mr President! Representative Hongisto has long experience in hunting and game management. I very much appreciate it, and I know that she is very animal-loving and caring about animals. When animals are hunted, ethics is essential. When an animal is killed, it is really important that it is done responsibly. Mr Halmemenpää and Mr Meri raised a very important matter of principle: if the animal has puppies, can the mother be killed and those puppies be left to suffer? That's what I'm worried about right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u39	Madam President! It is, of course, a good thing that this debate is being held and in a good spirit. I believe, however, that all those who have spoken here have the objective that the golden jackal does not fall here and that it is kept out of bounds. That's the first thing. I think that all the speeches have been aimed at this, and that is an excellent, excellent starting point. As far as raccoons and many other alien species are concerned, I see that when hunting clubs organise small-scale predator competitions every year, it is very important that hunters do the natural care work, removing non-human species that are traditionally not part of the Finnish nature. It is an important issue and hopefully it will continue in all hunting clubs. At least in North Karelia it has been very popular — I believe that in other provinces too. I myself feel that — and I made a few calls here and there — this proposal by the government and Minister Leppa would, however, give us more room for manoeuvre. I do not know whether this is the case or not, but this was also the Minister's view. From the point of view of the ministry, it is probably thought that they will be removed immediately on that border that they will not be able to spread here. I think that is the starting point, and that is why this has now been put forward in this form by the government. However, I believe that everyone has a good objective, and hopefully we will find a solution that will also make it possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u40	Mr President! My esteemed long-standing parliamentarian, Mr Nylund, said here that panning and follow-up measures and others are targeted at animals subject to the Nature Conservation Act. I would like to point out to this gym that the wolf is a game animal. According to the Hunting Act, the wolf is a game animal, and if any of you believe that the wolf has become a nuisance, then when this gold jackal is put into game, it is a nuisance to the power of two. But everyone has their desires. I understand that there are problems of interpretation, but we should see the fact — and this is not what the committee wants — that this will become a problem similar to that of the wolf. But I understand that there are different interpretations now, and then I will let these interpretations rest in their own privacy. From this end, I would say that we should not confuse quitting, hunting cards and animal welfare laws. The Animal Protection Act clearly states that if it is apparent that an animal is suffering unduly and is cruel to let an animal live, it must be stopped or stopped, either. It is then that we are on the right track and, as Mr Hongisto, as this official, too, rightly realised, it is either done by someone else or it is done by the person concerned himself, if he can, but it must be done properly, it is stated in the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u41	Madam President! To reply clearly to Mrs Merelle, what is the difference between Mrs Nylund's protest and mine, let me first say what is in common with them. As Mr Nylund has already said, both protests suggest that the hunting law should be amended to designate a game of gold jackal. In my proposal, it states that ‘the draft law, which is included in the proposal of the Government which is not approved by the Parliament,2’, is the same They're one to one. What is not in Mr Nylund's objection, but what is in mine is that these relatively large five mammals, which are removed from foreign species, will continue to have the mother so that the mothers and nests of the same year's chicks will be protected as they are today, while stressing that if the young do not follow, these individuals can be hunted. But the muskrats could still not be shot from the hive and the other mammals could not be shot if the pups followed them, which I think is a pretty ethical line. I propose that this should be laid down in a Government decree. Similarly, I would suggest that the Government regulation provides that all these mammals should continue to be fished only by the owner of a valid hunting card for the very reason that the Hunting Federation has also stressed that the hunting and killing of animals would take place as professionally as possible. Representative Wallin, who has already left here, said that the hunting card hardly gives any ability, just a little knowledge of the species. I, too, have the same book on my shelf, although I have not completed a hunting card, but I am familiar with what it takes to complete a hunting card. It requires accurate knowledge of the hunting law, it requires knowledge of the animal welfare law in relation to hunting, as far as the need is concerned. It also requires some knowledge of the law on arms, and it requires a rather precise knowledge of the species that are being tested for all these conditions in the course of a hunter's examination, and that is what I believe to be the significance of the Hunter's degree. This government bill on the removal of that hunting card requirement has indeed been formulated in such a way that anyone can catch these animals without any experience. Surely the responsible operator is acting as Mrs Wallin described, that if you trap a raccoon dog, then ask the familiar hunter to stop it properly, but this law does not prevent anyone from asking a raccoon dog to trap and then ending how best to do, and that is why I insist that the hunting card requirement will continue to be maintained. I think it is a token of dignity and honor for hunters, and I myself hold the expertise of hunters in a high-level course.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u42	Madam President! When this matter was discussed in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, my own view was that there is a common will for the objectives in committee. There have now been objections, and I myself am involved in this initiative by Mr Nylund. In my opinion, there is no point in arguing and squabbling in one direction or another, because I still stress that we share a common goal. Representative The objection made by Nylund contains sections that I understand that they are also signed by the Finnish Hunting Federation. I think it's going to be all right.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u43	Mr President! Just a brief comment to my esteemed representative, Mr Nylund, when you said here that the wolf would not be a game animal: I look at the website of the Finnish Hunter Association, and here are quite clearly large predators: gluttony, lynx, bear and wolf. So the wolf is classified as a game animal, as Mr Eestilä said, and we all know that the wolf's DNA is currently collected from that terrain, analysed it, panned wolves, followed wolf movements and so on. When a wolf is a game animal, this is what is done, and I think that if a gold jackal becomes a game animal, then in exactly the same way the monitoring of this game animal will begin: the amount of gold jackals we have, where gold jackals occur and whether the stocks of gold jackals survive hunting — it is a game animal. I just wanted to make it clear to the representative that there is no misconception that I have spoken against my better knowledge here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u44	Madam President! When you're wrong, you have to admit it. Congressman Hongisto is right in this case. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u45	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u46	Mr President! I object on the grounds of rejection of the bill this time and at the same time the adoption of the statement of objection to the Parliament's decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u47	Madam President! I support Mr Ihalainen's proposal. These articles should be rejected in their entirety and, in line with the statement, undertake an overall assessment of the Mining Act. There is no point in making such individual changes now, as the Mining Act should be taken into consideration in its entirety, as required by Parliament when dealing with the CETA agreement. This proposal to amend these two articles was exceptionally poorly prepared. It is even contradictory and therefore misleading. The problem with these articles is that they undermine the environmental impact assessment. On this basis, Yva and Natura evaluations can only be submitted once an application for authorisation has already been submitted, but the whole idea of an environmental impact assessment is to provide information on what would be better for the environment. Now, if these articles are adopted, it has in practice been chosen before the environmental assessment has been completed and added to the previously submitted permit application. The environmental impact assessment is also essential in the sense that it is the first point in which the inhabitants of the region have the opportunity to comment on the project in question, i.e. that their influence will be further undermined when the mining law should be developed in exactly the opposite direction. The municipalities and local authorities should have the opportunity to influence whether or not a mining project is coming into their municipality's territory, and they should have genuine decision-making powers here. As we decided together under CETA, the Mining Act should be assessed in its entirety. The report was commissioned by the then government by a single law firm, mostly known as the mining lobby, and it was found that there was no need for an overall assessment. Now we are making a statement that the overall assessment should be carried out, and it is therefore of the same content as Parliament's previous position that the Mining Act should be assessed in its entirety. I support Mr Ihalainen's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u48	Mr President! In short, I also share this view of the need to reform the Mining Act. This is now a government proposal relating to only two articles. Two or three years ago, Parliament has accepted that these articles will be re-prepared and brought to Parliament for decision. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection specifically drew attention to this need for a comprehensive reform of the Mining Act, although the situation is currently that the current Mining Act has entered into force in 2011 and we still have a situation where we apparently do not have any functioning well that is currently authorised under this current legislation that entered into force in 2011. We all know that the operation of the mine from the time we start preparing things is long, and these existing well-functioning mines will be authorised before 2011. There is a need for this review for many reasons: Of course, also because of the considerable number of international actors in Finland and the growing interest in mining. Also, of course, because market prices are rising and there is a shortage of different metals. It is also important to promote an open and transparent interaction process, so that local players can be more accepted in these matters. And in this respect, I just thought to say that the end result of this proposal, even though it is only two articles, is that an overall review is needed in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u49	Mr President! After all, this government proposal is based on a unanimous statement from the Parliament, which, therefore, required all parties to bring this correction to the Parliament. I understand that when this has been brought exactly in accordance with what has been required, different points of view have been raised in the various committees, and now there has also been an objection here. Mr President! I agree that in the coming parliamentary term it is essential that we consider the legislation of the mining industry as a whole. I am sure that, after a thorough examination, there will also have to be some kind of mining tax, but I would like to stress that this must happen as a whole. In fact, when you look at mining, mining law is not such a significant law, but, for example, environmental protection law is almost, you can say, the main law in that activity. It is therefore important to look at the legislation as a whole in this whole sector and consider what changes need to be made there. I also agree with the idea that municipalities should always have the last right to whether or not there will be a mining in the municipality's territory. As a rule, it is true today, but doubts have arisen in some cases and in the design decisions currently in the judicial process as to whether the municipality can ultimately decide. If it turns out that the municipality does not have an absolute so-called veto on whether or not the mine will come, then it will be necessary to clarify the legislation so that, in any event, in all circumstances, it is the local community, that is, the municipality, which will be able to decide whether or not the mine will come. Mr President! However, I would like to emphasise that Finland needs sustainable mining, i.e. ecologically, economically and socially sustainable mining. When these marginal conditions are met, it is more ethically sustainable for it to be exercised here than, for example, in African countries where human rights, children's rights, environmental rights are not respected.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u50	Thank you, Madam President. To Mrs Lohe, I would like to say that if you think the same way as I do, that the local authorities and the municipality must have a stronger decision-making power as to whether or not the mining will come into the municipality's territory, then you should reject these articles. These articles undermine the influence of residents because the environmental impact assessment is the first point in the process where residents of municipalities offer the opportunity to comment on this whole project. These articles themselves undermine the participation of residents. In your speech you also referred to the statement adopted unanimously in 2016. That is how we really accepted it, but it did not contain any small print-out of any of the prepared articles of any kind. I would like to quote you from the opinion of the Committee on the Environment. ‘The Government’s proposal on the management of the The proposal contains a lot of typographical errors, references to parliamentary documents are technically incorrect, the parallel text is incorrect, the articles contain both factual and technical errors, and the arguments are internally contradictory.’
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u51	Mr Salmon, the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u52	Mr President! It must be recognised that this government proposal contains such technical errors, which have been corrected in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy. But as far as the involvement of municipalities is concerned, I do not think it is so much a question of whether local authorities can participate in the process — it is extremely important that they can — but when I referred above to the so-called veto right of municipalities, that is, the last-hand right to decide whether or not the mining will come into the municipality, I meant, in particular, the decision of the municipality to resolve this at last through zoning, not so much that the municipality can express its opinions in different processes, but that it can decide once and for all through zoning whether the mine will come or not. There is no weakening of this issue by this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u53	Mr President! The Ministry of Employment and the Economy and the representatives of the government parties defending this government proposal have called for this proposal to be based on a statement adopted unanimously by Parliament. As Mr Modig has already said, Parliament has unanimously adopted two statements on the mining law. One is the basis on which this proposal has been prepared, the other is the statement adopted under the CETA Agreement on the need for a comprehensive reform of the Mining Act. Now the Ministry of Employment and the Economy has taken a quite different view of these two statements. In practice, the Ministry has referred to this more in-depth review of the need for reform of the Mining Act. Representative Salmon listed the things that would be needed for this reform and which I agree with. On the other hand, Mr Modig has already explained how badly it has been prepared, very poorly prepared. Furthermore, I do not know whether the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, when bringing this impetus to Parliament's plenary session, knew that this matter had already been discussed between the ministries and that at that point the Ministry of the Environment had given a very negative opinion on this idea. Now that this proposal was brought to Parliament, no one really asked for an opinion, not even the Ministry of the Environment, although this also applies to the environmental impact assessment and the Natura evaluation, which is precisely the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, when we went through this proposal, no one objected, at least not as chairman of the committee, to the objective that if a mining company, which has carried out research into ore exploration and so on in some region, wants to retain the privilege of mining if a mine is ever set up, but does not have time to complete the full mining permit application by the deadline, then it is good to provide a way of maintaining this privilege. This could be the case, for example, if time limits could be extended for a legitimate reason. However, the preparation of this draft law has not at all looked at such other options, such as this extension of the deadline I mentioned, but has started to find a solution which, as Mr Modig has already said, undermines the knowledge of people in the surrounding environment and undermines the basic idea of an environmental impact assessment that different options are considered in the environmental impact assessment in order to be able to choose the smartest of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u54	Madam President! These problems have been well outlined above, and I agree with them, in these proposals for amendments to the articles. As such, when it comes to the objective that these two amendments should be implemented, that they would allow the creation of a privileged system for a company that has been operating in the region, without any other company, as it were, going ahead because this first company is carefully and very well carrying out environmental impact assessments and taking a lot of time, as Mr Hassi said above, surely we all feel that it is reasonable that such a responsible, well-functioning company should have its prerogative, but this way in which it is now being presented, that is to say, to let them slip this environmental impact assessment and NATURA assessment before submitting an application for authorisation, is certainly a bad way to solve this problem. As has been mentioned above, the idea of an environmental impact assessment is precisely to identify the environmental impacts of different options and then try to choose the option where the impacts are minimised. And if you do not make such an estimate in advance, but you already submit a permit application and it defines the limits to which area you want a mining permit or a search warrant, then this kind of impact assessment would be just as empty as it is. And, just as has been pointed out here, environmental impact assessment is also the way in which residents are generally the first to be widely informed about projects and their impact. And that is why the way in which this order of precedence is set out here is quite wrong. When we know, as has been well mentioned in this debate, that the mining legislation itself, the mining law itself, as well as the different legislation relating to mining, calls for reform and that the Ministry of Employment and the Economy has set up a rapporteur to examine what changes are needed — an interim report is now being prepared in mid-April, and then, in the summer, the work will be completed as a whole — it would be most sensible now not to amend these articles, then to come back to this matter around the larger revoka. I am sure that next season, in the context of the reform of the legislation relating to this mining sector, we will be working together on these different issues in relation to taxation, in relation to post-care responsibilities, in terms of the better influence of the municipality, in terms of the influence of the citizens, in terms of the rights of landowners and in relation to these other aspects, which has been well raised in the debate, both here and in general, among the citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u55	Mr President! I fully agree with what Mr Mikkosen has said and, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, we, the Greens, the Democrats and the Left, together, are behind a better proposal. The problem with this government proposal is that it will change the situation so that the privilege can be obtained immediately after submitting an application for authorisation, even if it does not include, for example, an environmental impact assessment. In the context of CETA, it was promised that an overall reform of the Mining Act would take place. It has not been done, apparently because there is no need for it, but now that the opposition has made a fuss about it, it is admitted that there is a great need for power. There is no such lax mining law in any control country as in Finland, nor in Norway when oil was found there, foreign oil companies came and benefited from it, but Norway, the Norwegian people and the Norwegian State have benefited from it. This is the way it should be everywhere else. In every case, when we are doing politics, we need to think about whose interests we are monitoring here. We control the interests of the Finns. This land with its minerals, its groundwater, its forests belong to this people. We need to think about how this people could benefit and gain more from our own natural resources. The added value of our rare minerals in Finland is currently very low, and the environmental damage caused by foreign mining companies in Finland is still on the market. We need a mining tax and other measures to make the added value of our minerals much better for this people, and we need to put an end to this first-time Swedish rule and take the example of other, comparative countries. It's time to make patriotic politics. It is time to stop thinking that Finland and its natural resources belong to everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u56	Mr President! After Mr Huhtasaari, however, we must shed some light on the facts of today's situation. If we compare the Finnish and Swedish mining legislation — you probably referred to our neighbours in the control countries — then we cannot say that we have something to do with Sweden. We have some things that are much tougher than Sweden. Second thing: If we were to shut down foreign operators here, who here would be looking for ore? Nobody. We do not have such capital in Finland, hundreds of millions, that we can take that risk. I think it is important that we have operators here who take a risk and map our soil. And the claim that there will be no value added or benefit from these mines in Finland is not at all true. For example, in Kittilä, we all know Levi's tourist miracle, which is an excellent example, but how many of us know that the tax revenue from Kittilä's municipality, Kittilä's Agnico Eagle mine, is much higher than that from tourism? I mean, every year. Kittilä Municipality receives direct tax revenue of more than EUR 5 million from Kittilä mine and its operations, and the State receives more than 3 million royalties. So it leaves a great deal of added value in that area, and there are a thousand people working there, 90 per cent of whom live in the Lapland region. Therefore, it is completely nonsense to say that this, even if it is a foreign company that owns this mine, would not benefit and benefit enormously the entire regional economy of Lapland and the entire Finnish economy. This is why The Federation of Lapland awarded it the Regional Developer of the Year award, I stress, unanimously — that is, all parties agreed that this mine, owned by a foreign operator, has done the regional developer of the year. It is not worth putting these players against each other in this way, but it is important to emphasise the need for sustainable mining — a mining tax, of course, is needed in order to leave more money in the region — that is to say, it must be ecologically sustainable, socially sustainable and economically sustainable, and not by excluding foreign operators from this place.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u57	Mr President! That's all right. The city centre should be happy with the current mining law. In the early 2010s, the Mining Act was reformed under the leadership of the then central Minister for Economic Affairs, Mauri Pekkarinen, and if this is a sufficient level for you, it is all right that you bring it up honestly, especially before the elections. In many other countries, state mineral resources are state-owned and the mining company pays for their use. [Markus Salmon Interval]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u58	Madam President! I have to say that I believe that, in addition to the value added of sustainable mining of minerals and the exploitation of natural resources, it is also very important for Finns that people are able to participate in land use plans and project planning in their habitat in a timely manner, and it is very important for Finns that our clean water bodies and our clean nature are maintained in Finland. One part of the need to reform the Mining Act is also related to the fact that there is no reason for Finns to believe that if the government has made a decision on the basis of expert knowledge to exclude some valuable objects of nature from the construction of industrial activities by means of conservation decisions, then even those areas would not be protected from, for example, the search for ores, which gives operators a prior promise, at least the assumption that mining activities could also be carried out in this area where ores can be sought. People don't really understand this and we don't understand it in the green either. We have therefore suggested that nature reserves should be excluded from the exploration of ore. There have been numerous requests for reform of the Mining Act, for which we seem to have a broad consensus: the fact that municipalities can influence the location of mining activities by their zoning. The fact that we should impose a mining tax or a mining tax, by which name it is named, so that the municipalities and the state can receive VAT even more effectively. The fact that environmental considerations are so closely taken into account in the mining legislation that the unfortunate events that damage the reputation of the mining industry itself would be avoided. There is a need for reform, but the amendment of these two articles, as has already been rightly stated, does not take the mining law in the right direction. Therefore, it would be wise not to make these changes now and to reform the mining law in line with these good objectives, taking account of the whole in the next parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u59	Mr President! I thought that I would stop speaking, but I was now forced to use words that I did not use when Mr Huhtasaari put in my mouth. Unfortunately it seems that here in Parliament there are sometimes going to such deliberate misunderstanding of the World Cup. By the way, there will be no medals in these World Cups, because everyone will lose in them, and that is why I would like us not to put words in each other's mouths. In fact, when I was able to say just now in the previous speech that the centre is in favour of proposing that all the legislation relating to this mining sector should be reviewed and reformed in the next parliamentary term, it is unfortunate to hear in the next speech that the centre has proposed that we should be pleased with this. I would like to take a few examples. We are proposing a mining tax that would come to the municipalities. We propose, among other things, that the environmental damage insurance system should be reformed and transferred to the natural resource fund, which will cover not only the threat of environmental pollution and damage, but also the subsequent management of potential bankruptcies, so that, in the event of bankruptcy, the environmental problems of any mine will not be borne by the taxpayer. I would hope that other parties too will have in-depth policies and positions that have been taken since they were studied, and that they will not be based solely on images. I know that many parties have these: the Greens have done, the Social Democrats are doing, there is also a seminar today. These are excellent things for dialogue to take place, but they must be based on facts rather than on images and light wieners. We have a number of issues here in Parliament, including the need for change in the mining industry, in relation to very uniform positions. Surely we will find each other easily if we build our own positions on facts and not on light throws or by putting words in the mouth of others.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u60	Mr President! Representative Salmon spoke in the words of the future and had good ideas. As a Member of Parliament mentioned earlier, it is good that these minerals in the country are our own ore and our own production. I fully agree that what is in the country belongs to the State and that the State should take steps to move its affairs forward. But it is in that way that this mining law of ours calls for reform, a complete one. It must also take into account the rights and environmental aspects of landowners much better than has been taken into account so far. We must be able to look to the future, to the future, to the future, to what our soil looks like, and to what extent mining and mining are responsible for our environment. It is therefore necessary for this to be found in the next government programme when this current government has already left office.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u61	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u62	Madam President! Finland has significant expertise in e-business and financial technology, i.e. fintech. The preparation of the new legislation has now been carried out from the perspective of financial regulation, which is important, but the proposal has not taken into account in a balanced way the business environment in the sector and its opening-up to the future. Not enough business perspectives have been taken into account, although at the same time the central government invests heavily in, among other things, the Artificial Intelligence Programme and other digitalisation. In a rapidly developing technology sector, startups and projects of an international nature focus on where legislation and business conditions are favourable. If Finland, when transposing the Fifth Money Laundering Directive at national level, adds national over-regulation to the minimum requirements of the Directive, it is likely that the result will be that companies in the sector will not invest in Finland but in countries where the Directive has been put into effect, taking into account the conditions of business and competitiveness. Mr President! As regards the regulation of virtual currencies, the Finns suggest that the government proposal should be reinstated at the Ministry of Finance from the point of view of the economic potential of the sector, while at the same time pursuing the development of a regulatory environment in the control countries, such as Lithuania, and seeking to create a clear and competitive regulatory framework for business in the sector in Finland. Mr President! On the basis of this above, I propose that the draft laws be adopted otherwise than in the committee's report, except for the second proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u63	Mr President! I support what Mr Immonen has just said.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u64	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u65	Madam President! This is a major event. At second reading, we have a law that has been awaited for a very long time. I have already spoken about this at the last reading, so it is now very brief: the question is that we have very valuable health and social records and it is important that they can be used nationally. There are a wide range of interests in making use of these, and it has partly slowed down the preparation and processing of this law here as well. This processing of data is needed for research in the health sector, for the management of social and health services and then for different innovation development. This preparation has really been complicated by the fact that several ministries are also involved. The committee dealt with this for a year and a half, and it must be said that, during this debate, this greatly improved. One slowing issue has been that this is about people's very sensitive personal data and health data, social data, and that is why it is absolutely necessary to ensure this information security. At the moment we have the situation, and it will also remain so that these registers are available to different parties: THL, Kela, the Population Register Centre, Statistics Finland. That's how it's gonna stay. But the current problem has been that researchers have to ask for this information from different sources and then combine and process it. This has been extremely slow, the processing has taken a very long time, and now that this new system means that there will be a single licensing authority within the THL, which, according to researchers' wishes, will then acquire the information and professionally combine and anonymise, so for information security this will be extremely much better. So it is great that we are this far along and that this law can be adopted in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u66	Mr President! This secondary law is a difficult one, but it must be said at the outset on the basis of the committee's deliberations. In other words, the secondary law has been in this house since last year, excuse me, since the year before, and that is the bill that came to Parliament during these years as a budget law has changed a great deal. Good work has been done in committee to ensure that this sensitive patient information remains safe. It is therefore intended to use this information for secondary purposes, and in this respect the committee has been working on this proposal in a number of respects. Of these original articles, it can already be said that two thirds have been renewed during this process. Mr President! Now, as my own personal opinion, I am pleased that we will be able to make use of the information gathered in society’s registers, particularly in the study of many serious diseases. But at the same time we must remember that when it comes to very sensitive medical data, it is important that we ensure that this information is always and everywhere safe. The solutions taken in committee this year are in the right direction. Personally, I would have ensured that this sensitive information is kept in safe hands so that this new information licensing authority would have been given a degree of power to ensure that this sensitive information, which could then be disclosed in certain cases, would in fact only and only be handed over here by the data licensing authority. Unfortunately, in this respect, this change was not possible, but it was intended to insist that all society's controllers could actually hand over this secondary information under the conditions contained in this draft law. I find it questionable because the committee specifically states that this sensitive information should be information used in an IT-protected environment, and when such protection, which would then be done to them through anonymisation, would in fact require this same information licensing authority to act, it seems strange that the work done by the data licensing authority could be handed back to any controller again. It will then come to the point that why on earth such a step will be left behind. So there's a lot of red tape here, there's a lot of information going in a lot of directions, and there's a little weird going around.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u67	Mr President! This was the subject of a good debate, and I took the floor just to ensure that, if there is any objection in committee, I would suggest that action be taken in accordance with this objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u68	Mr President! Once again, we cannot give the government full points for preparing this proposal. The matter has been dealt with carefully in committee and, as has been said in this Chamber, it has changed for the better. However, there are still problems with this proposal, the most important of which I see is that the management of the risks associated with the processing of health data is unclear and the committee did not receive adequate answers to the questions about risk management, such as the risk assessments made and how to prepare for these risks. President! I support the proposal made by Mr Nurminen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u69	Madam President! Currently, health data are used for management, they are used for research, they are used for innovative product development — in other words, in large areas to find out how health services should be provided. Not only is it administrative information, it is also research information. As a professional, when you look at the bill now under discussion, it will actually stiffen the current availability. There will be new elements that will assess the usability of its information. There will be a centralised authority that will ensure that every request for investigation, contrary to what has been made here, also has a basis. And if scientific research is carried out, then the ethics commission should assess the situation, the relevance of the research, and in fact this same procedure can also be used in so-called innovative activities. The middle ground between innovative research and research is like a line drawn in water, and I see that this bill now requires a similar research design in innovative activities, i.e. a similar high level of ethics. Furthermore, data cannot be transferred to any information system after innovation and analysis, but all the time that the data licensing authority has made its decision that data can be disclosed, it requires that they are then used in a high-security environment, contrary to current legislation. I see that this bill is a clear improvement on the current situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u70	Mr President! I have taken a public initiative that the next government should have a digital minister or a minister for the information economy, whose task would be to update legislation of this kind and many other - dozens, if not hundreds - laws to meet the needs of the information economy of the future, as well as to promote public information resources and private data resources, and then business related to such an information economy. I would say that the preparation and discussion of this draft law in committee have highlighted the need for such a special minister: not only is it a central area of action for the economic future of Finland, but also because the digitalisation of public administration, information practices and information security for citizens are ensured. For myself, experts have raised many questions and concerns, to which I briefly referred at first reading, about the shortcomings of this bill at this stage which would justify its rejection as such, but perhaps the most important point is that these services as such could be carried out without concentrating on one operator or authority. In a well-functioning and secure information environment, e-services have a responsible maintenance body. They appear to applicants as uniform one-stop-shop services but are nevertheless genuinely shared. For example, a permit service could be used to apply for permits for all the material required for the project by one application, and each authority or controller would grant permits for its own data. They would have user interfaces, services could be managed in the licensing system, and decisions would be communicated to applicants through the system. Of course, the advantage of such a system vis-à-vis this bill is that it would serve applicants equally, whether one or more authorities were applied for, but would be more rigorous in complying with European security regulations and would also be safe for the data owner. In addition, the rights of the data owner should be safeguarded in all cases. In other words, it would be advantageous for each substance committee to be an opinion committee in this kind of legislation on digitalisation rather than a decision-making committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u71	Mr President! First of all, as regards the preparation of this law, we could have done better in this drafting of the law. For a year and a half, the shortcomings of this law have been corrected when the preparation of this regulation has proved to be particularly inadequate along the way. In October 2017, the Government's proposal was brought to Parliament in a hurry and as a budget law it lapsed because these details could not be sufficiently refined. The work has been continued since 2018 and, in fact, the experts consulted by the committee also showed that data protection and security were not at the beginning of this proposal at a sufficient level. The problems remained to be addressed both in the preparation of the government and later in committee. A new, corrected response was made at the end of 2018, and several dozen articles were re-introduced in committee. Looking at this version, which is being discussed today in the Chamber, in comparison with the draft budget law prepared in a hurry for 2017, it can be said that Parliament has done a really good job here. It should therefore be stressed that data protection must be ensured here, and the requirements for data protection have changed significantly in the content of this proposal. Now, the development and innovation of data disclosure based on consent and anonymisation can no longer be considered to be within the national scope of the Data Protection Regulation. A rather big solution has been made in this way, which supports the fact that this information will be secure in the future. Furthermore, the starting point in this proposal has been the desire, after all these changes, to hand over to development and innovation aggregated statistical data which is actually very far from what was originally presented. I believe that this limitation, which has been made by the committee, should be supported. Therefore, information can no longer be disclosed in accordance with a previous government proposal, but it has been recognised that this information may contain residual risk, so that anonymised information can be identified and broken down as technology develops and the use of artificial intelligence becomes more common, and this leads to it,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u72	Mr President! I am pleased to support Mr Haraka's work as Minister of Information Security. Since we now have a huge amount of information to make use of, how it is used in an integrated way so that the same issue is not examined more than once, it is extremely important for the functioning of our society — the fact that the various ministries no longer look at its own sector, but we have a common approach to the gateway in this as a whole. On the other hand, I do not agree with Mr Haraka about whether this authorisation management is now fragmented. After all, we have a researcher — if we think of this kind of scientific work — who makes a research plan and if there is a need to combine data from different authorities, in fact the licensing authority in Valvira or on the THL side is currently assessing whether civil status data can be combined with clinical patient data, and this will then take advantage of the opinion of the Data Protection Supervisor. So the process is very difficult at the moment. In accordance with the new legislation, the data protection authority is precisely this kind of authority that connects all the data, which then brings the data evaluated by the researcher from different authorities into the same matrix, one entity, so that the researcher can combine the data differently in it, look for the laws that exist between them, and on the other hand he can only obtain a separate permission for further data to be combined with this. All in all, when the researcher submits this request for information to the information security authority, he still has to draw up a plan on how the results will be made public, on what type of models, and the information security authority must continue to assess whether this research plan is valid in this respect, i.e. in terms of the disclosure of information, and when the data are ready, he must also be responsible for — to verify and assess — that no one’s privacy has been violated in the context of the disclosure of the information. You will see that this process is very safe at the moment. It currently provides the individual protection that is needed. In fact, as I said earlier, it even stiffens the current research.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u73	Mr President! Let me be more specific, therefore, that I agree with Mrs Talja that this proposed model of information licensing authority is rigid and, in fact, somewhat premature. It brings unnecessary, additional processing of personal data and is therefore not in line with the principle of minimising data in Article 5 of this Information Security Regulation. So there should be such an alternative model where each authority would pick up the information requested in the permit, pseudonymise it with other authorities related to the same application in the same way, and then each person would hand over their material directly to the applicant for the permit in a secure operating environment. Such decentralisation and the avoidance of concentration is the only way to get both a flexible approach to dealing with these huge data masses and to ensure that they do not create a security problem due to concentration.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u74	Mr President! In this proposal, the challenge is that, after these huge changes to the articles, the proposal should have been completely rewritten in a smooth form in which all things would then have been carefully considered. The next government will be correcting this secondary branch even later on because of the solutions left behind in its content. The Government's proposal gives this implementation of the law a very short period of time. In fact, laws would come into force from the beginning of April, and in this respect it can be said that in a few weeks we will be in a situation where this proposal will come into force, but at the same time it will be a challenge to make use of all the data in the register so that it will also be possible to transfer the things left in the files of society into this new system. At the same time, the advisory service will start very quickly at the end of the year, and very quickly it will also pose the question of whether social and health care operators, as well as other current social welfare and health care controllers, will actually have the opportunity to do this work within these deadlines in the future. This gives the possibility, within 15 days of the date of receipt of the request, to make such aggregated statistical information available in accordance with the request for information. It therefore seems that there is still much room for improvement in the way in which it is compensated and in the way in which these solutions are made. All in all, this centralised data permit authority would only start after the transition period in 2020, so there would have been time to try out the implementation of this law by region and possibly by transitional periods and the experiment to obtain the best possible practices, which would then have ensured that this high level of data protection and information security know-how could have been used here. In fact, we are in a situation where we are faced with the question of whether this authority with a high level of expertise has at least been adequately resourced, and whether it is in a good position to carry out its tasks in terms of composition and resources. More specific provisions are also lacking in this respect, as is the ethical committee's line of work on the difficult solutions that will certainly have to be made there.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u75	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u76	Mr President! ♪ Now we've fallen ♪ The Sipilä Government — although the separation of the government took place at least a year and a half too late — must for once be commended for making a reasonable legislative proposal. My thanks therefore relate to the introduction of the equity savings account, as set out in this Government proposal. Finnish national capitalism has long been quite modest compared to Sweden, for example, and much of the wealth of ordinary citizens is either tied to dwellings or lying almost unproductive in bank accounts with close to zero interest rates. They already have Finnish deposits worth more than EUR 80 billion. From the point of view of national capitalism and domestic ownership, I think it is good that the stock savings account, which allows Finns to increase their assets in a long-term way, for example, in order to protect old age and whose profits are being taxed on newly acquired assets when they are withdrawn from the account, is about to see the light of day at the beginning of next year. The upper limit of EUR 50000 for deposits into the equity savings account ensures that the benefits of this presentation are specific to the usual sparing Finnish households. The positive side is also that the equity savings account increases the attractiveness of direct equity investments, for example, compared to expensive equity funds. Mr President! Finally, it would be very important for shareholders also to participate in the general meetings and to act as responsible owners and decision-makers there.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u77	Mr President! Parliament is now facing a historic situation. Now that the government has resigned, this border between the government and the opposition has become unnecessary. If we look positive, the power is now in the parliament — genuinely. It exercises the highest state power, as the Constitution says. If ever, it is now possible for us to look at legislation openly and without prejudice and genuinely for the good of the nation, freed from other political will. That is why I appeal to the whole Parliament now to have an open mind on the side of what I am about to say. The stock savings account itself is coming. Its content has already been decided, and the political will which has wanted it to be achieved and which rests on the majority of 2015 is in its process. At this stage, the question is whether the majority of Parliament sees the need to include, if not necessary, elements such as insurance, a kind of non-life insurance in a completely new, unpredictable financial instrument. As I have said before, Mr President, one of the key issues has yet to be addressed, and that is whether or not a stock savings account — and under what conditions — is equivalent to comparable foreign investment products. Because of the free movement of EU capital, Finland cannot discriminate against foreign investment accounts vis-à-vis Finns. Due to the formulation of this adopted bill, it is very likely that foreign investment accounts, such as the Swedish ISK account, will be treated as a Finnish share savings account, thus exempting dividends paid to them from tax in Finland. In general, subsequent withdrawals cannot be taxed in Finland because of tax treaties. In practice, tax losses can be significant, for example, the ISK account in Sweden is much cheaper for an investor than this Finnish equity savings account, and hundreds of thousands of Swedes have Finnish shares, including Nordea. In addition, the model may lead to an increase in tax planning, which could lead to a risk of tax loss of more than EUR 100 million per year. In practice, therefore, the addition would result in the Finnish share savings account not being competitive compared to, for example, the Swedish ISK account. So it could even mean that Finns, without any change, are moving to foreign investment accounts and the importance of the equity savings account is limited. And that is the whole thing, ladies and gentlemen and Mr President. When the aim has been to get Finns to invest in Finnish shares, the result may be that Finns invest in foreign accounts and foreign shares or that the benefits of Finnish shares are not taxed by foreign investors. The proposal has not covered the rulings of the EU Court of Justice very carefully, nor has the report of the working group of the Ministry of Finance, which considered the tax treatment of the various types of investment. What is essential in this case-law of the European Court of Justice is that, when compared, consideration is given to whether these products are comparable, the objective separation criteria, which are essentially laid down in the law, have been accepted. On the other hand, no distinction has been made on the basis of the legal form. Even Article 53b of the Income Tax Act and Article 3 of the Income Tax Act, which are now presented and accepted, contain only a legal form, but no objective criteria for assessing the actual value of the equity savings account within the meaning of this Article. Therefore, there is a risk that an investment account that is very broadly similar to the equity savings account, such as the ISK account, will be exempt from withholding tax, and that the risk will be high. So, finally, Mr President, I shall make four statements, of which this fourth statement is the one for whom I would like to see a special understanding of the whole Parliament. The statements are worded as follows: 1. “The Board of State requires that without delay the Council of State initiates a study to assess the impact 2. ‘The Board of State shall, without delay, make a proposal to the Parliament to strengthen the tax base by 3. ‘The Commission requires that the Government prepares, without delay, a proposal And finally, Mr President, this is 4. the statement: ‘The Government requires that the State Council draw up a report on the effectiveness of the legislation on
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u78	Mr President! I support the wise statements made by Mrs Haraka. And, Mr President, I very much hope that this speech, even though there are not too many people in this Chamber, would have reached as many representatives as possible in their own offices, for example. In my opinion, Mr Harakka was very good at justifying why this 4th statement in particular could be such that it would be easy and good and even necessary for the whole Parliament to adopt it unanimously or by a majority in any case. Surely it is a common interest for all of us to find out, before entry into force, exactly what the risk of tax losses to foreign accounts and tax losses here in the country of origin is within this proposal. I believe that this is an important and even similar matter that we decision-makers are required to be aware, however, of the potential threats to tax losses at a time when we will certainly need a common tax base to continue to ensure, for example, good services for the elderly or that our vulnerable people are taken care of. And that is why, in such a situation, I think it is particularly important that we do not at least make laws which would result in the loss of tax revenue for precisely this type of purpose — on the contrary, we should have more of them so to speak. In particular, when we are in a situation where we do not have a government, we do not have a political government, Parliament will decide — perhaps these government-position limits are no longer in the same format as they were last week at this time when we discussed the matter the last time — I really call for all of us to consider at least this last statement for approval. Of course, I also warmly support these three previous statements, which, in my opinion, are very appropriate to address these insurance portfolios, to make an inventory of their tax losses and to tax the income generated there on an annual basis. And I also think that this exit tax, which is included in that statement 3, is an important issue. In these words, Mr President, I support these statements and I hope that Parliament will now consider this situation and see the need to clarify the risks of tax losses first.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u79	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u80	Mr President! This working time law has already been debated here and the paragraph has also been voted on, but I would nevertheless suggest that Parliament approve proposals 1 and 2 contained in this objection. The first statement is that ‘the Council of State calls for the preparation of the law to begrouped in order to give up the period of work provided for in the Law on Working Time’,and the second one is included in the draft statement that‘the Government requires that a new form of working time,flexibilities, and the effectiveness of the law be monitored with particular scrutiny and that the observations made are explained to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities of the Parliamentafter alast yearand a half of the year after the entry into force of the law. “ - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u81	Mr President! I support the proposals made by Mr Nurminen, but at the same time I would like to highlight some of the problems raised by this working time law in relation to veterinarians. According to the government's original proposal, the practice doctors of the municipality would have been subject to the Working Time Act in the future, but in its report the committee changed the exemption from the scope of the law into a law similar to the current one, and even less stringent than the current one, and against the EU directive, while limiting the practice doctors of the municipality to the application of the law. This last-minute change in the scope of the derogation concerns workers more widely than only veterinarians. The average working relationship of the municipality’s practice veterinarians is currently between 60 and 80 hours a week, in some cases more than 100 hours a week, and this is reflected in the member survey of the Association of Veterinarians for 2018. I find it intolerable that a professional group has been obliged to a continuous emergency room of up to 80 hours, for example throughout the weekend, where active work may be the majority, and I believe that this is a clear risk to the safety of both patients and other road users, because the municipal veterinarians drive a lot of sick trips. The municipal on-call system of practice veterinarians needs to be urgently reformed to ensure occupational safety and health. The Working Time Act and the Veterinary Welfare Act should be amended to the extent necessary to achieve this. I would like to make the following statement: ‘The government requires that the implementation of the health and safety protection andtime autonomy of the health and veterinary surgeons
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u82	Mr President! A few words about periodic work: In fact, periodic work is a specific form of working time already laid down in the 40s, which is mainly used in the care sector, and one might say that it is a little questionable even from the point of view of ILO 149, as it requires nurses to have as much working time as possible as other workers. The problem with this periodic work is that it circumvents overtime pay, as it were. Working time may be longer and may be very long between certain specified periods. Now it is a good thing in this law that rest periods have been tightened in such a way that, until now, the minimum rest has been nine hours, it is now extended to 11 hours, but a surprise: for these periodic workers there is still the possibility of nine hours. It has been defined in such a way that it is not a rule but rather an exception, but the law does not say how often that exception can be made. This is what we proposed, among other things, in the earlier paragraphs presented by Mr Nurminen, but we lost them, and it is therefore important that all this periodic work be examined and evaluated as to whether it is necessary to use it and whether it can be removed, because I dare say that it is one of the reasons why people are moving from the care sector to other tasks. When the parents of young children when they go to work cannot be sure when the working day ends, it brings such uncertainty from the point of view of reconciling work and family, that we prefer to try to get a job where work and family can be more clearly coordinated and can be sure that the child will be admitted from early education. According to SuPer, we have about 30,000 people who have moved away from the care sector, and THL has only published its new report, according to which the total number of such persons in the care sector would be around 70,000. When we have discussed in this Chamber, for example, the quality of care for the elderly and whether staffing can be taken into 24-hour care, those who have doubted this have said that there is not enough staff and that there is no staff. I dare say that some of these people would be prepared to return to their old profession if working conditions and working hours were more humane. In addition, I see a major problem of equality here, because, as a rule, in male-dominated sectors, you go on a normal three-shift job, where you then pay for overtime in normal pay, but on the care side you do not. In fact, the government in this proposal is extending this use of periodic work to the social sector too, but it remains rather uncertain how and to whom it will be targeted. I am sorry, Mr President, but I will continue a little while longer when three minutes were not enough. [ The speaker moves to the podium] The way this works then on the social side is somewhat unclear, and that is why we should be thinking about this continuation: do we really need this completely exceptional working time at all? Well, then Mr Pekonen raised the issue of the situation of veterinarians here, and it is undoubtedly a little unclear even after this law, because this bill assumes that when you work in an official capacity and normally, you are in working hours, but then if you work as an entrepreneur again, then our working time law is based on the fact that these working time regulations are not in the same way. Veterinarians often do both—and-work, and now when it comes to considering whether this legal condition of autonomy of working time, in which case we are outside of this working time regulation, is a little questionable in different situations. If the veterinarian determines, as it were, when he is working, then he is in working-time autonomy, but if he receives a complete list from his employer or, for example, as happens at the emergency services, if we are at that particular time and those jobs come when they come, then it is time to question which side of the line these people are on, and it is therefore necessary to consider whether we need legislative changes here as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u83	Mr President! The representative, Mr Pekonen, made a very good point of justifying matters relating to the working hours and well-being of the practice doctors in the municipality, so I support the proposal he has made.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u84	Mr President! There has been a lot of discussion here about the situation of municipal veterinarians, and this is quite problematic. In this way, the committee’s report stated: ‘The committee is concerned about the impact of the new working time legislation on the organisation of veterinary services and the protection of working time This reference to the report meant precisely what is being proposed here today, because the dual approach that has been raised here, whether or not the farm animals will be on call for the weekend, is really a work-related one, but, on the other hand, the work done there will also be paid for by the person who will order the work. In some ways, this is still the case with the municipal doctor status, when the municipality pays a small fee for the on-call or operation and then the patients, the owners of the animals in this case, pay the end. To this end, the committee was very unanimous that laws should, as was stated in the effort, be put into further discussion. This is such a complex arrangement that at the moment the committee was not in a position to resolve this issue. As far as the committee's report is concerned, we can of course look back at whether this was strong enough, but this was precisely the intention. On the other hand, it is now stated in the committee's position that, with regard to all changes in working time, the implementation effects of the new Working Time Act will be monitored specifically in relation to this European Working Time Directive and then in relation to other Finnish and international legislation. So, in this way, I think that the veterinary issue has also been given sufficient clarity. For example, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry could immediately launch a study on this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u85	Mr President! The thing that touched me some time ago because I was on duty quite often: in practice, it went so that when the work started on Friday morning, it ended on Monday night, so I think it was some 80 hours of work at the time. When there was work, when there was no work. What needs to be taken into account is that the system of hiring vets is special. Veterinarians, now municipal veterinarians, who are obliged — i.e. obliged — to call upon the animals to be assisted 24/7, regardless of whether they are farmed or escorted, because the Animal Welfare Act obliges them, are on a low base salary and, when they care for the animals of the customer, they are paid for it. They are subject to VAT, but 24 hours a day through the year's officials. They do not, as it were, step into different boots while working at the weekend or on call. I think that the members of the committee and the chairman are very familiar with this problem, because the situation is that if more people are hired there, as young people are demanding, because they do not want to commit themselves as much to work as it requires, it leads to a situation where there is no work every day, and then again these old practicers do not want to change this system at all, because they want the very freedom that sometimes there is work, sometimes there is no work, so that this is a bit like a fire department in their own way. In my opinion, the members of the committee have a very good and well-informed view of it, and the Left Alliance's proposal also seeks the same thing that this really needs to be considered from a number of different points of view. Here we come to a situation where, in a way, these standards and solutions are different depending on where we are in Finland. That's why I think we should take this now. There is a change in the pay system, there is a change in working hours, and we have to take into account that the sector has become quite masquerading and no one wants to tie themselves to work for three days. This is the biggest problem. In this case, there is not as right a way that we should do just that or that, because if we do violence and sudden changes, the result may be that the entire animal welfare system, this 24/7 system, will fall into an impossibility, and that is why further clarification is required. In other words, the committee is on the right track, and I think that the Left Alliance is also there, in its own way, to support the committee. This is something we need to figure out.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u86	Mr President! Although there are hardly any practice doctors or farm animals in my own constituency that are being treated as official jobs, for some reason I am familiar with the work of veterinarians and the problems associated with the work of veterinarians. What is important to see is that the practice doctors are civil servants in the municipalities, and all the work they do is official work, as Mr Eestilä has pointed out here, so that in a way, the remuneration system is peculiar when it combines both a small monthly salary for the performance of official work and, on the other hand, these fees, which are charged for these duties, which are, at the same time, official work. In other words, it is quite right that there is no simple solution here, but that the entire pay system should be able to be changed, and it is important that legislation does not prevent a solution from being found that is capable of ensuring health and safety at work, as well as the safety of practitioners — long kilometres, long working days — and of other people. This is also about animal welfare. This is about how we will be able to care for farmed animals and the welfare of farmed animals in the future. By name, such as a representative Eestilä here, both women and men, I say so, want to work in sensible hours today. And the degree of commitment required at the moment to be a practice doctor, a local veterinarian: it has become clear what hours are at stake, and it will be extremely difficult in the future to find those people who are able to commit for such long periods of time. Now I already know that it is difficult to find replacements, for example, and that is why this has to be resolved. Mr President! In a way, this report came quite quickly, was adopted at noon and this first reading took place at the beginning of the evening, and this content changed from the government's proposal. That is why, after a while, it may have woken up to what the change is, and I understand, after these speeches, that it has sought to seek what Mr Pekonen has now said in his very competent speech. This would also clarify what this report apparently has been trying to say when it did not open up to someone reading the report, and I do not think that this is the case — we no longer have an opposition and a government around its head here, but we are the same party until the end of the parliamentary term — so much a political issue but a matter that needs to be taken care of, and in that sense it would be elegant if Parliament were to adopt this statement and then have a stronger backlash on this report to which representatives Mrs Talja and Mr Estilä referred.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u87	Mr President! Perhaps further clarification is why this is so difficult: it is a question of vets being, in a way, civil servants and, in a way, entrepreneurs. Even when they are self-employed, they do their duties in a certain way, and this makes this difficult to resolve. In fact, it is about money and what kind of pay system can be achieved, and I believe that this has been negotiated for quite a long time between the employers and the employees, but that solution has not been found. That is why I think it is important that the committee has recorded in the report that the committee is concerned about the impact of this new working time law on the organisation of municipal veterinary services and the health and safety of veterinary surgeons, and is pressing for a solution. That is to say, very much the same type of record as the one in the Committee's report. This effort may go further, perhaps, to consider what kind of legislative change is needed and whether there is a need to go beyond working time legislation in order to resolve this issue. In that sense, it is perhaps broader than the committee's idea which has been behind it. Well, the interesting thing was that when we received statements in the committee, there were quite a lot of people who thought that this law would automatically take all the veterinarians into the working time protection or working time arrangements, but nevertheless the ministers' rapporteurs felt that this law did not do so, but that there was this duality. That is why the committee decided to put it here and perhaps to clarify a little of the duality that exists there. We did not, in itself, terribly change that government proposal, but, in a certain way, we tried to clarify it. I do not know whether we were able to do so, because there really was no time other than the little half-hour we had in the last few meetings, because then we had a little different timetables, and it is also good that this issue should be clarified. There are a few other points in this law that should be clarified in the future. But it is worth noting that, even in this situation too, in order to be outside the legislation on working time, this obligation of autonomy must be fulfilled, which is earlier in the law, at paragraph 4.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u88	Mr President! I think it is good that this issue is being discussed and recognised that there are problems here. Mr Filatov quite rightly said that, in the end, it is a question of money when it comes to changing the pay systems. This is also the case if there are many officials, who goes into such a pay system if there is no work to be done. Then they won't stay there. That's when you have to pay a lot of money, and this is what it's all about. That is why I would like to take this opportunity to say that I myself have worked as a veterinary surgeon for 30 years and this is a completely equal profession. In the work that is done, everyone has the same salary and everyone has the same rights and obligations. That is why, when we often talk about women's euros or anything, they are a little unknown to me, because this is exactly the kind of work where gender differences mean nothing, but how work is done and how cooperation works. But it must be pointed out that the world is changing and work ethics are changing and, in a way, leisure requirements are changing. It does not matter whether a man or a woman, as Mr Arhinmäki said, but many veterinarians are women today. This actually does the fact that it's not a problem, but it's kind of a situation that needs to be solved when these young vets don't want to commit anymore, and then when you go to the municipality for office, the municipality will force you to be on call. This is an obvious problem. If it were up to me to resolve these issues, it would certainly be necessary to set up a working group here and then even try out different localities, different regions, different solutions and through them to go for it. This is a good example of the fact that only one and the same law for Finland as a whole does not solve the challenges facing different regions. There should be some flexibility and individual solutions in different areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u89	Mr President! Representative Eestilä himself, acting as a practice vet, brought up the problems from within, and they are easy to agree with. There are similar problems with hospital emergency services. In fact, this Working Time Act takes a position on it and partially excludes it from the general Working Time Act. In fact, here too, the trade union has been concerned that they have left the collective bargaining procedure to resolve this issue. However, the committee's view here was that this is such a big, important issue for the kingdom financially, as has been pointed out here, and also in terms of health and safety at work, that it should be comprehensive and that the aim should be to resolve this problem as a whole in a legal way. Indeed, these views were raised in the consultation process from a wide range of points of view and, in addition to economics, one added to this was whether we currently have enough veterinarians in sparsely populated areas to concentrate our posts. And when 1.3 veterinarians are needed for one post on average — at least on that human side of the population this relationship is used in it — is there enough of even those basic officials in the sparsely populated areas of Eastern and Northern Finland at this stage?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u90	Mr President! The representative, Mrs Talja, raised an important point here as to whether there would be enough practice doctors in the future for municipal veterinarians. It is precisely this labour law and health and safety at work and decent working hours that is the crucial issue. There are already problems in finding them because these working hours are so long, and therefore the legislation and the associated entries must be such that they support the fact that the social partners are able to find a solution that will be able to ensure that, in future, there will also be a shortage of veterinarians in sparsely populated areas. Veterinarians themselves have been trained and come from other parts of Europe. After all, there has been an increase in the number of training courses, and many veterinarians from other parts of Europe also come to Finland, but the problem is not with the number of veterinarians, but with how to tie them to work, and this is precisely the issue of working time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u91	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u92	Mr President! This is where the government proposes an amendment to the Fisheries Act, which has now been discussed not only in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry but also in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Government's proposal includes two changes. The second is a new issue: in the case of certain fisheries offences and infringements, the value of the fish that is the subject of the crime as a representative of its species should be condemned to the State. So there would be such a new sanction, which is a very good thing. Then this second change, which is presented here, relates to Upper Lapland, the three northernmost municipalities, Inari, Utsjoki, Enontekio. It would practically restore the right of local residents to fish in current waters, they could claim such a season permit. This is in fact linked to the reform of the fishing law that took place during the last parliamentary term, where there was a mistake that this local fishing right was abolished. Now we're returning it. When these fisheries issues have also been examined from time to time in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it can be said that here, especially when it comes to those northern regions, it is a balancing issue with three fundamental rights: firstly, the fundamental right of ownership of the water area, then the fundamental environmental right, and, in the case of the northern regions, it is also the issue of the rights of the indigenous peoples of Sámi. It is important that there is always a solution for these to be able to strike the right balance, not to forget a fundamental right, but to be able to respect all of them. This is not an important point, but I thought, in the future, that it is important for us that this system does not go to forgetting one of these rights, and that traditional ownership is something that must also be respected, that is, the right of the owner of the water area when these are discussed. Mr President, I am a little disappointed that this could not even be a unanimous motion in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. There has been an objection to this and it has been lodged by the Greens, although they themselves were in the government during the last period, when, in my opinion, this bad mistake, in which this local law was forgotten, took place — now that it is being corrected, then there will be an objection. This objection suggests that the Sami people living elsewhere should also be guaranteed the right to fish, but this issue has been considered in the context of the Fisheries Act in the Constitutional Committee, and it is terribly difficult for us to have no register of the Sami people, which is a public register. When no ethnic register exists, it is difficult to implement this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u93	Mr President! Unlike the representative The salmon may give a slightly incorrect impression, so the Greens are not really opposed to the correction of Article 10 of this Fisheries Act to the status it has been in the previous legislation, but we are in favour of the draft law in the direction we are going and we are also in favour of the inclusion of Article 119 in the Fisheries Act. It really will bring that valuable loss. We would only have liked to see that it could have already been stated in this context that the correction of Article 10 to its former status, which is necessary, does not fully satisfy the rights of the Sámi people to pursue their culture in respect of fishing. And the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has already stated in previous opinions, for example, in 2004 and 1997, that fishing is part of the traditional Sámi life-form without restrictions on residence — which still remain in force here and therefore only apply to all residents of those three municipalities in Upper Lapland. That is why, Mr President, I object to two statements: The first concerns precisely this Article 10. I propose that Parliament adopt the following statement: ‘The Parliament requires that the Council of State take action in a group of different ways in order to clarify the situation in the And, Mr President, with regard to Article 119 and the consequence of the loss, I have tabled an amendment to this paragraph at the previous reading, but one thing remains to be said in this case, and it concerns the rights of the holders of the fishing rights of the holdings to participate in fishing areas under the Fisheries Act. In this respect, I require that the statement be worded as follows: ‘The Board of State requires that,in a group of cases,the preparation of amendments to the fisheries legislation,which will bring together the fishing rights into
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u94	Mr President! There is a government proposal for a change to the Fisheries Act, which must be supported. The law includes a new kind of loss penalty to protect our endangered fish from fishing crimes. In the case of a fishing offence, the value of the fish subject to the offence as a representative of its species is condemned to the State. This reform will enhance the protection and recovery of endangered and declining fish species. The Greens, however, proposed an improvement in this proposal to the list of endangered fish for which a penalty is proposed to be lost: a fine. Although the dome is not as endangered as the many other fish on this list, there is still a great deal of poaching in the valuable pit, and it would also be essential for the viability of the stock to include the dome in this list, so this remains a task for the next round of reform of the Fisheries Act. After all, these days, in the marine regions, the mounds have been dwarfed as a result of overfishing. This proposal has been, among other things, the proposal of the Centre for Leisure Fishing. Mr President! I support the statements made by Mrs Halmemenpää. They improve the rights of the Sami people, the Sami people's right to carry out their own traditional fishing activities. This government proposal, as Mr Salmon also said earlier, contributes to improving the fishing opportunities of Upper Lapland, but we must continue to work on the implementation of the rights of the Sami people and the overall reform of the fishing law. After all, a number of measures are needed to protect fish. We need to push ahead with the fish strategy, we need to speed up the construction of viable fishing routes, but then we also need to start dismantling the barriers to the rise of fish. It is the case that, in many places, the barrier to the fish road hinders species from spawning: the various bridge drums and dam structures. It would be useful for biodiversity to allow better fish to rise and remove obstacles to spawning.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u95	Mr President! This fishing law has certainly provoked a variety of passions and vibrations in anyone, and I do not, in itself, object to Article 10 of the Fisheries Act. changes and locals receive a certain price-based seasonal permit based on residence there. It is a very special argument and the legislation is not familiar with it, but I accept that this is being done because their culture and fundamental values are so strongly linked to fishing and the nearby river, whether it be in question or not. Teno or a tributary. But all the time, and I would have liked to have had the status of minority owners reviewed at the same time, as Parliament has already required. In other words, when decisions are taken by shareholders, they are governed by the Joint Regional Law, and at the same time the Joint Regional Law should have been opened and the protection of minority owners whose property register includes the right to fish. However, I point out that, for those who are able to be here in plenary, this law leads to a person who owns the rights to fish on the sidelines watching when a person who does not have any rights of any kind but who lives in a locality and fishes receives a seasonal permit, but that the owner does not receive a seasonal permit. My sense of justice does not quite accept it, although of course I understand that the majority of shareholders decide and do what they want. But that was the fact that this joint regional law should have been opened and brought into it by provisions similar to those contained in the law on limited liability companies, which regulate minority rights and which sanction the activities of the President and which shape up that movement. The situation is that there are fishing units, as it were, invented and tackled out those minority owners and given a lot to some majority owners. The best owners may have dozens of season permits for one pole and lure, and each day he can so-called spin and spin them, hand them over to anyone, but he, who is a minority owner, may have two days or hours to fish. I therefore accept this, but this is inadequate, because there is only one problem that has to be resolved here. It cannot go that way in society that people are given the ones who scream the most, but should see the whole field and solve the problems at the same time, so that the result is satisfactory for all the parties involved. That was my intention, and, Mr President, it is still not too late, because the committee has drawn attention to this, and this is a high-profile group on Teno fishing and joint regional law, with those who control the constitutional side, and then the representation of the owners, local representation and representation of the Sámi people. It should lead to a break-up and a consensus. I appreciate the Sámi culture and in every way I think it's good. I respect and respect the Sámi and Sámi culture, but at the same time I demand that the Sámi also respect the property and property protection of another. There can be no one-way respect and respect. This is how it is going to be, and I would like to say to everyone that neither I nor any representative of the party that I represent started to put a brake on this in committee. It will now be brought to this Chamber as a government proposal, even if I myself would have expanded this somewhat and dealt with it differently.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u96	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u97	Mr President! The registry farce is getting to the end of the line. This was so funny that the government was already crumbling before we could finish this year's management register saga and finally vote on it one last time. After all, this is a government proposal concerning statements unanimously adopted by Parliament in spring 2017, which tried to correct the obvious shortcomings of this controversial management registration legislation. This is a long story. As early as 2010, a report to the Parliamentary Audit Committee raised the issue of the lack of governance of stock market holdings through management registers, enabling stock exchange companies to be hidden not only from public authorities but also from other investors. Tax losses were then estimated at up to hundreds of millions of euros. All the more amazing was the fact that the Ministry of Finance's view on this matter was the opposite, so they felt that Finland should be allowed to register for management. During the previous government — or before that — finance ministers Urplainen and Rinne refused to bring or make a legislative proposal to the Parliament, but then the Finance Minister Stubb took action. That was a shock to many authorities, to the police, to the shadow economy and to the tax administration, but, as we remember, Mr Stubb said at the time that the statements were generally positive. The percentages went backwards, and he then had to find out that I was sorry about that. This was, of course, quite a setback for the assembly, and then the minister promised to bury this whole matter of management registration, but it did not take many months, when it came in a little new form, with a stir, here in Parliament. At that time there was quite a disagreement within the government, and the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, representing the Finns, held this in committee for much another year before it was then turned by hand that it was now being brought here. At the same time, as I said at the very beginning, statements from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy were adopted unanimously, requiring that legislation be drawn up at the same time to impose a lump-sum withholding tax on these dividends on beneficiaries who are unknown. Well, this law reached the end of our present Parliament but threatened to fall in the middle of this same opinion of the Economic Committee at the end of February. This was an extraordinary act of electoral panic, in which the government parties themselves voted against the government's own motion. I am sure that Mr Mölsä and Mr Mäkipää, Mr Jaskari, Mr Lehti, Mr Pirttilahti, Mr Honkonen and Mr Hautala will be able to explain why they tried to overthrow their own government and Mr Orpo's proposal, possibly without Orpo's knowledge. Such an inner twist of the assembly, the center and the blue involved before he came back here. Of course, this took another grotesque turn when the government parties discovered another symptom of the electoral panic that they could not now abandon this management registration legislation simply on the grounds that this was done differently and then went back to the line and behind the original proposal. But this could be much tighter. Tax authorities should be informed about dividends and transactions in shares, and these should enter the public register as widely as possible. In this way, I would like to make the statements that have been made in our protest.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-11-ps-174.u98	Mr President! The statements adopted by Parliament in 2017 were very good, and they sort of led the way to catching up with all kinds of tax avoidance and better able to catch up with this kind of tax cycle. These statements, which have now been made in the committee's objection, are, in my view, good. That is why I support the proposals made by the representative above.
