ParlaMint-FI_2019-04-24-ps-1.u1	The plenary session will begin. As an elder from my age as a Member of Parliament, I shall be chairing this first part-session of Parliament until, according to Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament has elected the President and two Vice-Presidents and they have given Parliament a solemn assurance. Plenum Börjar. Som den riksdagsledamot som äldst till åren är det min uppgift att föra ordet vid första plenum under riksmötet till dess att riksdagen enligt 4 § i riksdagens arbets-ordning inom sig valt talman och två vice talmän och dessa har avgett högtidlig försäkran inför riksdagen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-04-24-ps-1.u2	The election of the President, which, like the election of the Vice-Presidents, is now followed by compliance with the provisions of Article 34(2) of the Finnish Constitution and Articles 5 and 6 of the Parliamentary Statute. So the election will be delivered on a full-time basis. Representatives shall bring their ballots to the urn according to roll call, which shall be delivered in alphabetical order. I would like to point out that the name of the candidate must also be identified with sufficient precision, if necessary, using the first name. Nu följer val av talman, viiket liksom ave liet av vice talmän, förrättas enligt 34 § 2 moments i Finlands grundlag och 5 och 6 § Valet förrättas således med slutna röstsedlar. Riksdagsledamoterna ska enligt namnupprop i alphabetisk ordning lögga röstsedeln i urnan. Jag vill påminna om att candidates namn ska anges tillräckligt tydligt. Vid behov kan också förnamnet anges. As assistants for checking ballots and counting votes in the election, I would ask the following representatives: Antti Lindtman, Sami Savio, Mia Laiho and Antti Kaikonen. Jag ber följande ricksdagsledamöter granska röstsedlarna och rösterna vid lies: Antti Lindtman, Sami Savio, Mia Laiho och Antti Kaikkonen. I note that the votes cast are not made public. Jag ber er notera att namnen på röstsedlarna inte läses upp.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-04-24-ps-1.u3	The result of the vote shall be read. Omröstningsresultatet avkunnas.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-04-24-ps-1.u4	When Mr Antti Rinne has received more than half of the votes cast in the election, he has been elected President of Parliament for the 2019 Parliaments. Eftersom ledamot Antti Rinne vid liet erhållit mer hälften av de avgivna godkanda rosterna, harhan valts till talman vid riksmötet 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-04-24-ps-1.u5	Follow the election of the first Vice-President. The election will be delivered on a full-time basis. Representatives will bring their ballots to the urn in alphabetical order. In the election, I request the following representatives: Johanna Ojala-Niemelä, Lulu Ranne, Jukka Kopra and Hanna Kosonen. Nu följer val av förste vice talman. Valet förrättas med slutna röstsedlar. Riksdagsledamoterna ska i alphabetisk ordning lögga röstsedeln i urnan. Jag ber följande ricksdagsledamoter biträda vid liet: Johanna Ojala-Niemelä, Lulu Ranne, Jukka Kopra och Hanna Kosonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-04-24-ps-1.u6	The result of the vote shall be read. Omröstningsresultatet avkunnas.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-04-24-ps-1.u7	When Mr Juho Eerola has received more than half of the votes cast in the election, he has been elected first Vice-President of Parliament for the 2019 Parliaments. Eftersom ledamot Juho Eerola vid liet erhållit mer rälften av de avgivna godkanda rosterna, harhan valts till förste vice talman vid riksmötet 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-04-24-ps-1.u8	Now comes the election of another Vice-President. The election will be delivered on a full-time basis. Representatives will bring their ballots to the urn in alphabetical order. In the election, I request the following representatives: Suna Kymäläinen, Jukka Mäkynen, Sinuhe Wallinheimo and Markus Salmon. Nu följer val av andre vice talman. Valet förrättas med slutna röstsedlar. Riksdagsledamoterna ska i alphabetisk ordning lögga röstsedeln i urnan. Jag ber följande ricksdagsledamoter biträda vid lies: Suna Kymäläinen, Jukka Mäkynen, Sinuhe Wallinheimo och Markus Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-04-24-ps-1.u9	The result of the vote shall be read. Omröstningsresultatet avkunnas.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-04-24-ps-1.u10	When represented Paula Risikko has received more than half of the votes cast in the election, she has been elected second Vice-President of Parliament for the 2019 Parliaments. Eftersom ledamot Paula Risikko vid liet erhållit mer rälften av de avgivna godkanda rösterna, har Hon valts till andre vice talman vid riksmötet 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-04-24-ps-1.u11	I would ask the President and the Vice-Presidents, each in turn, to give the House Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure. the formal insurance provided for. Jag ber talmannen och de båda vice talmännen att inför riksdagen i tur och ordning avge sin högtidliga försäkran i enlighet med 4 § i arbetsordningen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-04-24-ps-1.u12	I, Antti Juhani Rinne, assure you that, according to my powers as President, I defend the right of the Finnish people and parliament according to the Constitution. Jag Antti Juhani Rinne försäkrar att jag som talman effecter all min förmåga skall försvara finska folkets och riksdagens rättigheter enligt constitutionen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-04-24-ps-1.u13	I, Juho Eerola, assure you that, according to my powers as President, I defend the right of the Finnish people and parliament according to the Constitution. Jag Juho Eerola försäkrar att jag som talman effecter all min förmåga skall försvara finska folkets och riksdagens rättigheter enligt constitutionen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-04-24-ps-1.u14	I Paula Sinikka Risikko assure you that, according to my powers as President, I defend the right of the Finnish people and parliament according to the Constitution. Jag Paula Sinikka Risikko försäkrar att jag som talman effecter all min förmåga skall försvara finska folkets och riksdagens rättigheter enligt constitutionen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-04-24-ps-1.u15	I would ask Mr President to take his place in Parliament and to take action. Jag ber riksdagens herr talman inta talmannens plats och börja utöva sin befattning.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-04-24-ps-1.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, ärade ricksdagsledamoter! Thank you very much for the confidence that you have shown, Mr President-in-Office and ladies and gentlemen, for the whole of the Bureau, and for myself. I would also like to congratulate each and every one of you jointly and individually, re-elected, first-time elected and return migrants. Congratulations on the power of attorney you have received from the Finnish people. På mina egna och de nyvalda vice talmännens vägnar vill jag varmt taga er, Herr ålderstalman och värderade kollegor, för det förtroende ni visat i talmansvalet. Jag vill också gratulara er alla till den fullmakt som Finlands folk har gett er. The result of the parliamentary elections was historic in many respects — not least because gender distribution is more even than ever in Finnish history. There are 106 men and 94 women in the Parliament, 11 more than in the last parliamentary term. The elected parliament will use its power of attorney at a historic moment. The international situation requires those who safeguard stability, defend democracy and the rule of law and those who are responsible. I am convinced that this is what the new Parliament is like. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Now that we start working together, I would like to remind everyone that the way this house and each of us operate has a major impact on people's perception of politics and decision-making. We have been chosen to find solutions to the problems. We have been chosen to do careful work, because it is vital for Finnish people's everyday lives. We have been chosen to make future reforms so that tomorrow will be brighter and better than yesterday. In this parliamentary term, greater attention must be paid to the quality of the drafting of legislation and to the impact assessment of decisions. We have to listen to what we've been studying. We must respect the Constitution. In a word, it is better to study than to waste. In this way we can strengthen people's confidence in political decision-making. This is a common task for all of us, regardless of the party book. I hope that during this parliamentary term, we will remember the respect of each other and of all people. There is no need to agree with things in this Chamber, but the behaviour must be polite and consistent with the seriousness and dignity of the work of the MP. I would remind you that there is no nail rack at the door of the Chamber on which to hang a congressman's work suit. We are elected representatives of the Finnish people everywhere: 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, in this hall and outside the hall, online and offline. At the beginning of the parliamentary term, Parliament will be in a position of responsibility when Finland becomes the Presidency of the European Union. Let us therefore also bear that responsibility well and with honor. Jag önskar er, ärade ricksdagsledamöter och hela ricksdagens personal, allt gott i ert viktiga arbete. I wish you, ladies and gentlemen and the staff of the entire Parliament, all the best in your important work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-04-24-ps-1.u17	I would like to inform you that the representatives will sit in the Chamber of Parliament in alphabetical order of sitting until Parliament decides otherwise, on a proposal from the Council of Presidents.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-04-24-ps-1.u18	Ladies and gentlemen! I invite you to the opening of the 2019 Parliaments, which will be held tomorrow, 25 April 2019, and before the opening, for the parliamentary service. The ceremony will follow the instructions adopted by the Council of Presidents on 17 December 2012. Ecumenical opening service begins at the Helsinki Cathedral at 12 noon. I would ask the representatives to meet before the service at 11.30 a.m. in front of the National Library, where we are going as a procession to the Cathedral. After the service, the opening of the parliament begins here in the Parliament House, to which I urge the representatives to move immediately after the church ceremony has ended. At the inauguration of the Parliament in the Chamber of Parliament, the President of the Republic declares the 2019 Parliaments open.
