ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-13-ps-82.u1	The third item in the order of business is presented as a single reading. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on PeVM 5/2019 vp. The draft law can now be adopted without amendment in substance by a decision which has been supported by at least two thirds of the votes cast or rejected. The committee proposes that the draft law be adopted without amendment. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 11 December 2019. In the debate, Mr Immonen, supported by Jukka Mäkynen, has proposed that the bill be rejected. In addition, with the support of Olli Immonen Jukka Mäkynen in the debate, Parliament has proposed to reject the proposal for a statement contained in the report and to accept the proposal for a statement in accordance with the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-13-ps-82.u2	If at least two thirds of the votes cast are split, the draft law has been adopted, but otherwise it has been rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-13-ps-82.u3	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement. Since the proposal for a statement by Mr Immonen relates to the same subject as the proposal for a statement in the report, an objection to the draft statement is put to the vote against the proposal for a statement in the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-13-ps-82.u4	The fourth thing in the order of the day is the election of the members of the court of the kingdom. I note that the election is unanimous and that, according to the list of candidates, the Parliament elects the following as members and alternates of the national court for the term of office from 1 January 1920 to 31 December 2023:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-13-ps-82.u5	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-13-ps-82.u6	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! By a joint, fine, dignified decision, the parliamentary groups decided that the front increase of our war veterans will be increased from EUR 50 to EUR 125. This is, therefore, the biggest increase in history, the biggest that has ever been made in the past, and thanks to all the parliamentary groups and the strong common will to pay and bear this debt of honour. This increase will bring relief to many very old men and women. They have reached a high age, they have managed most of them with very low incomes, and this increase is extremely important for facilitating their everyday lives, such as housing and medical expenses and other living needs. Another valuable decision was taken in November of this year. At that time, all veterans were guaranteed the same level of domestic services as from 1 November 2019. The services became legal, i.e. the state has had to provide the necessary funding from that day forward, i.e. the care and care from the beginning of November no longer have been caught by money and cannot be caught by money, nor by the place of residence of the honorary citizen. Therefore, the responsibility for ensuring that the services are carried out in an appropriate manner lies with the organising municipalities. Mr President! At the beginning of this year there were 10582 veterans alive in Finland, and this year over 2,000 of them have already heard the last evening cry. Thus, each year this group of veterans is reduced by some 2,500 veterans, which in fact means that seven veterans each day hear the final evening cry. So the crowd is thinning at a very fast pace. According to estimates of the War Veterans League, at the end of next year, 20, there are only about 6,500 veterans alive and 1200 at the end of 25. At the beginning of this year, there were no more veterans alive in more than ten municipalities in Finland, and for many municipalities the evening cry has been heard this year for the last time. At the beginning of this year, only one of our honorable citizens, the veteran of our wars, was alive in eleven municipalities. Year by year, then, we have fewer and fewer of these veterans and lotteries of our wars among us, and that is why it is the last time to pay this debt of honour. This year 2019 was also historic from the perspective of these people. This year, for the first time, the relationship changed so that there are more female veterans in our country than men. The reason for this is that female veterans are somewhat younger than our male veterans in average age and also live a little longer than us. Front service numbers for women have been issued, for example, as a lott and military sister, but also for women who were engaged in anti-aircraft and evacuation missions during the war. Mr President! However, we do have a group of men and women who have been involved in these military missions, but who do not have a front code, and it was a great moment yesterday in Question Time when the Christian Democratic Group under the chairmanship of Mr Päivi Räsänen raised these honourable citizens, who are without a front code. He spoke of Private Veteran Sakari Räsänen, who therefore has no oak branch on his chest but who has done his job in due course. This was a fine question and this was a valuable question, but so was the answer from the Minister for Social Affairs, Aino-Kaisa Pekos. He said that he is now taking this concern on his desk and asking the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to go through once again all the women and men who are alive but who have not, by the time I remember the 94 deadline, applied for that code, so let us see how many of them there are, and let us make this valuable decision for them and pay the debt of honour for them too. So a big thank you to MP Päivi Räsänen and Minister Aino-Kaisa Pekonen – this is one of the finest information and decisions that have been announced in Parliament this autumn. But, Mr President, we also have a large number of war orphans who are still without paying the promise that was actually given to their fathers and mothers when they went to war. It was promised then that, when you go to war, even at the worst hour we will take care of your children to the last. In fact, Finland, as a welfare society, has not borne this and has been able to keep it, and here the previous President, Mrs Risikko, has been active, and I personally hope that this can also rise up on the table of Minister Pekonen to consider that these war orphans will also have what was promised their fathers and mothers in due course that when the worst happens, children will not be left behind. Mr President! This joint decision by the parliamentary groups to increase the front bonus to EUR 125 is valuable. But it comes at the very last moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-13-ps-82.u7	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! A bill amending the Front Military Pensions Act and the Act on the Front Pensions to be paid abroad, submitted jointly by all parliamentary groups, is under discussion. Thank you for the fact that we can unanimously allocate additional resources to veterans of our wars this Christmas. The purpose of this initiative is to increase the advance supplement under the Finnish Military Pensions Act and the Law on the Advance Pensions to be paid abroad. The benefits will be increased in such a way that the front pension under the Finnish Military Pensions Act and the front supplement under the Finnish Foreign Front Pensions Act would increase from EUR 50 to EUR 125 per month. This increase is already substantial, and it is a great thing that we can thus support our honourable citizens, the veterans of our wars, who have been waiting for a long and long time but who are now receiving this well-deserved increase. From the beginning of November 2019, the law on the rehabilitation of front veterans entered into force. This means that services supporting the home of front veterans became legal. After the amendment, the home services of front veterans and war veterans are identical in terms of content and scope. Veterans' organisations have stated that some of the payments related to living will continue to be paid by veterans after the legislative amendment, and that is precisely the cost that this law, which is now coming into force, is aimed at. Mr President! I think everyone who's been through this war is veterans in some way. We have often talked here about war orphans, war widows, even little parasites. Let us not forget one of them. It is sad to say that we still have a situation in Finland that war widows, among others, are not entitled to statutory home services. Let us do all we can here and there in the local communities so that veteran organisations can work, so that the municipal services work in such a way that all elderly people, including those who were children during the war — they are now the ones we take care of in the care of the elderly and home services — have enough help and help when the time comes. Let us do everything possible to have sufficient facilities, for home, especially if a person is there alone, is not the best place to live, although we often imagine it. Mr President! With this bill, I would like to wish all the veterans of our wars, as well as the elderly, a good and peaceful Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-13-ps-82.u8	Mr President! Under the conditions of political turbulence and in the midst of the considerable tensions we have experienced here in the Chamber, it is wonderful to discuss the unanimous presentation by all the parliamentary groups, which has still been dealt with quickly and factually by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and which has practical significance for the livelihoods and opportunities of our veterans of war, but above all it is a tribute to these honourable citizens. Mr Heinonen raised this issue of the code of conduct, which was discussed yesterday during Question Time. I am indeed grateful that Mr Pekonen, in such a positive spirit, took a stand on this matter. And, indeed, this work of inquiry must be carried out quickly, because even these people, who have performed the military service but do not have this front code, are constantly diminishing. After all, this is a situation of inaction that, when these symbols were stopped in 74 C.E., they could no longer receive this if they did not seek it themselves at the time — perhaps they did not understand the value and meaning of it. This, Mr President, is not just a question of financial benefit, although it is, of course, a question of whether these elderly veterans are actually going to feel respected veterans of our wars. For example, their relatives have pointed out that sometimes it feels like we can treat this father as a real veteran who has been there in the war in Lapland and in Syvär serving side by side with men who are veterans of our wars. That is why I hope that this issue will also be resolved in the same good spirit, in which this increase in the premium has been taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-13-ps-82.u9	Mr President! Mr Heinonen has already made a very good speech, a comprehensive speech which is very easy to agree with. With no money can we show the appreciation we feel for veterans or ever pay them the debt we owe them for the youth destroyed and often for health. If, with a small increase in the military back-up, we can give at least a small signal of our appreciation, that is absolutely what we must do. In these troubled times, I believe that the experience of veterans should be listened to to to ensure peace by maintaining patience and, above all, a respectful, appreciative debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-13-ps-82.u10	Mr President! Mr Heinonen has already made a very good speech on this issue, and I am sure we can all join with this joint initiative by all the parliamentary groups to increase the premium from EUR 50 to EUR 125. Among other things, representatives Räsänen and Pelkonen spoke well about this. Mr President! We cannot thank the generation of veterans enough for the work they have done to redeem this country's freedom, but also to rebuild this country and create the welfare society that has made Finland the best country in the world. So it's great that with this little but certainly important financial effort in the life of veterans, we can have that appreciation. I agree with the previous speakers that we also need to take better account of the situation of war orphans, for example, and the other points raised by Mr Juvonen in his own speech, so I hope that this work will continue with such a good consensus as this year's Parliament has been able to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-13-ps-82.u11	Mr President! This increase in the military pension is a state of common will for all of us, and that is where all the parliamentary groups are behind us. 30. On November 1, 1939, the Winter War began, lasted 105 days, and an incredible country that had experienced a violent civil war twenty years earlier, and an insolent prison camp was not divided. The invaders faced a miracle of winter war. Together, both white and red, Finland rose to its great patriotic war with a striking unity. For the first time in Finnish history, Finns as a nation fought not the wars of others but their own. It was a genuine basis for the existence of a nation, it was a Finnish war of freedom. The Winter War united the entire people behind the common flag. For the first time, the Finnish Blue Cross flag was the common symbol of this nation. These symbols represent the contribution made by veterans to Finland’s independence. In that respect, it is very valuable that we safeguard this pension provision at an adequate level, and it has also been referred to here that these services must be secured for our veterans. This is our fine, common, valuable decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-13-ps-82.u12	Mr President! All we can do is thank the speakers and say that, now that Mr Räsänen raised this issue at Question Time, we also have those who are not in this increase because they have not been recognised, I would like Mr Pekonen to be able to extend the clarification to those who lost their mental health in connection with the war and because of military action. For them, some of them, certainly in that moment, the reputation of the deserter was created, and they have therefore not been involved in this review. I think we should have the heart to see it this way: if people who have lost their mental health in those horrors at the moment are out of this crowd, we could now examine this matter as well, so that we do not keep them out of the way. They have made their contribution according to their own abilities, but their own mental health prevented what we are now about to grant this necessary increase, which is now being done by this decision to these superiors and veterans.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-13-ps-82.u13	Mr President! Firstly, it has to be said that the parliamentary groups have been working well together again, with this increase in the premium. But as far as these proposals for further improvements are concerned, I would perhaps like to remind you that this week it was precisely the Council for Front Veteran Affairs, which is the interlocutor between parliamentary groups, national veteran organisations and the service, that was 40 years old. I myself think in that way — and I have been watching over the last few years how these improvements have been made, and a great many of them have come from there through the Front Veteran Affairs Council — that it is perhaps good that, now that these improvements have been brought up here in individual speeches on this symbol, and the Minister promised yesterday that it would be clarified, and that many of us have also been visited by representatives of the Fallen Family Federation on this issue, we can also jointly see whether there are any improvements to be made. But this bill here should have been adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-13-ps-82.u14	The debate will now continue in such a way that the sitting will soon have to be adjourned and at 3 p.m. if Mr Hoskonen does not succeed in a very quick speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-13-ps-82.u15	Mr President! With a great deal of satisfaction, I note that this has progressed so rapidly. In fact, it might be said here that now that the status of veterans of our wars is being improved all the time, responsibility will be passed on to the veterans in the municipalities, so that those services can be genuinely organised. That is an important point here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-13-ps-82.u16	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-13-ps-82.u17	Mr President! This is a very important bill and a very significant increase in government responsibilities — we are talking about tens of billions of euros, export and vessel credits, interest rebates and government export guarantees. These relate mainly to the Finnish shipbuilding industry and in particular to the Turku shipyard, which is owned by the German shipyard company Meyer. These are very important in terms of the economy, and this proposal for a law is, on the whole, very welcome, for tens of thousands of jobs. In granting these subsidies, Finnvera — mainly Finnvera — takes account of the OECD regulation based on the implementation of social responsibility, which is very important. In relation to the use of labour, in particular, the Turku shipyard, and in particular its subcontracting network, have had a lot of problems in recent years in terms of underpaid employment, poor working conditions and the use of cheap foreign labour, and I wanted to raise this issue here that we might be able to look even more closely at this aspect of the matter in the future, the implementation of social responsibility and social responsibility, as required by the OECD for this type of credit. There are still many problems with the Turku Shipyard and its subcontracting network. Then, of course, there are the tax liability issues and the fact that even foreign companies properly pay taxes to Finland and that even large groups do not circumvent corporate taxes in any way, for example, through group arrangements. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-13-ps-82.u18	The 10th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 17 December 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-13-ps-82.u19	The Council of Presidents proposes that the procedure proposed by the Council of Presidents on 10 December 2019 be followed at the sole reading of the draft budget.
