ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u1	Jyväskylä-based socionomist Action Kankaanniemi, who has become a deputy in the constituency of Central Finland instead of Teuvo Hakkarainen, who has been suspended on 2 July 2019, has presented me with his mandate and started to represent him as of 2 July 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u2	Open letter from the President of the Republic on amendment 9 by the Government. As from August 2019, the representatives have been allocated and entered in the minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u3	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. A maximum of one hour shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u4	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! There is now a government proposal for a law amending the Postal Act implementing the additional national provisions required by the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on cross-border parcel delivery services. As a whole, the EU Regulation complements the Postal Services Directive for cross-border parcel delivery services, which does not contain in particular provisions on regulatory oversight of cross-border parcel delivery providers, transparency of certain prices and terminal charges, or affordability of prices. The Postal Services Directive has not been considered sufficient alone to ensure the affordability of e-commerce services. The EU Regulation aims to improve the functioning of the market by enhancing regulatory oversight and promoting competition. The Regulation obliges Member States to provide for penalties applicable to infringements of the Regulation and to take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented. For the rest, this Regulation shall apply as it stands in all Member States. In the Government’s proposal, additional amendments are proposed to the Postal Act, which would allow the same penalties to be applied to infringements of the Package Regulation as are applied to postal undertakings or other entities under the current Postal Act. According to the proposed amendments, the Agency would have the same means available under its control of the Package Regulation as under other control of postal activities. At the same time, in line with the requirements of the Package Regulation, it is proposed to extend the scope of the Postal Act in certain respects to activities within the meaning of the Package Regulation which are not covered by the universal service obligation. It is also proposed to clarify the role of the Agency as a national regulatory authority under the Postal Services Directive. The proposal does not contain any additional national regulation. The national legislative amendment itself is not considered to have an economic or significant impact on the activities of companies providing parcel delivery services or the Transport and Communications Agency. The Regulation has been applied in Finland since 22 May 2018, with the exception of national sanctions to be applied by the Member States since 23 November 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u5	Mr President! The presentation is quite technical, as the Minister's presentation showed, and to a large extent already in practice. In this situation, however, it is also necessary to reflect more extensively on the future of Posti, Posti's operations and postal services in Finland. Mr President! The mail has been in trouble in recent years. The post office has lost credibility and reliability in the eyes of Finns. One example, a concrete example, is the matches of the Finnish football team to be played this week. Up until now, match tickets have been sent by mail to the supporters who have ordered them. Because in the previous match — in the Bosnia match that Finland won with two Teemu Santa goals
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u10	And when the word "post" is mentioned in the title, I will allow a wider discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u11	Mr President! It is a good thing that this Post debate will be brought up right from the start in this Chamber, and I hope that this will lead to a parliamentary consensus that the Minister for Corporate Governance and the Government together will take concrete steps after this debate. One concrete aspect that must also be taken into account is whether Posti is also responsible for doing other business, such as cutting the lawns it was trying to do in the past, and at the moment it has also been heavily involved in the tendering of care services and actively providing care services. All these businesses from the state-owned company are going to eat the livelihoods of those small entrepreneurs, such as those in the care sector, who are not able to cope with such a large state-owned company, who has the margin to lower prices at first so that they gain the market share they are going to pursue. And I ask you, Minister: is there any way that you could outline what the state companies are doing? Do they also have a moral right to go to the property where these small entrepreneurs work for their own livelihood?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u12	Mr President! This amendment to the Postal Act is about cross-border packages, i.e. rather a technical, small matter. A bigger concern is how to secure the delivery of mail throughout the country in the future, and also what Mr Arhinmäki drew attention to, i.e. reliability. I wonder, of course, that at the moment, for example, the tax administration is using not state-owned mail but private distribution companies. Of course, one might wonder whether this could also be used to secure distribution across the country. But then this Post-it thing that Prime Minister Rinne was talking about. After all, the Prime Minister suggested that postmen could look at the windows of the elderly and ask if everything was all right. I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs and Health: how do you see whether this would be possible to strengthen this aspect of social welfare and health, on the one hand, and also the possibilities for Posti to operate?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u13	Ministers will be able to comment later. This is not Question Time, but it will be granted in due course.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u14	Mr President! This amendment to the Postal Act, as has been said many times here, is an important and very technical change in itself, but it is indeed worth highlighting these recent issues in this debate. There is no way in which the citizens' sense of justice can fit in with the fact that the management of a state company receives more wages and rewards than the management of the state. Indeed, if compared with other listed companies, these fees of the Head of Post are totally unreasonable — quite unreasonable. I am pleased that Mr Paatero has wanted to act quickly on this issue. Of course, we know that, when this whole system is being reformed, it will certainly take time, but it is extremely important that we restore public confidence that this is actually being directed by politicians and that this restoration of the reliability and operational capacity of the Post is now at the forefront of everything. It is completely unreasonable of the postal people who have tried to make a small wage and to meet ever-increasing demands.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u15	Mr President! As far as this proposal is concerned, it is, of course, a good thing that there are common rules for the various players in Europe as well as here at national level. That is why, of course, these technical changes are a good guide to this content, which we have already had a little debate on here on a wider scale, and it is certainly necessary to extend it beyond the scope of this debate. Even at the point when the postal services were put on the market, we have been faced with such a problem which, in accordance with the universal service obligation, requires Posti to provide services in those sparsely populated areas, and then other similar operators have been able to compete for the distribution of mail to those places where these results are then better. In connection with the Government Programme negotiations, the State has announced that it will revise the performance requirements for Posti. That is why it is very good that Mr Paatero has now intervened in this matter of staff wage cuts, which in itself is an extraordinary measure, since we know that the State is already paying attention to Post's potential for action.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u16	Mr President! There is now a very technical amendment to the Postal Act, and that is why this debate has, of course, expanded on a number of other issues. I must say that warm thanks to all those who have already spoken for the understanding that it is also necessary to look more closely at Posti. And also to Minister Paatero, thank you for the opening that you have already taken the view that the fees of the Posti management must be reviewed and specifically revised downwards. It's also the center line. Overall, the wages and salaries of state-owned companies must be considered as a whole and the criteria should be set in order to be lower in the future. But then the big question is also Posti’s operations and the conditions for Posti’s operations. We have also stated in the Government Programme that the postal law and its implementation will be reviewed, including the universal service obligation. It is very important that the universal service obligation is maintained, whatever the situation in Posti in the future. But all in all, we need to look at the Post, and
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u17	Mr President! This has now been mentioned in the mouth of a few representatives about Posti and its services, and now, on the basis of recent statements, we just have to hope that this postal law will not later be involved in the social reform. Just yesterday, Prime Minister Rinne explained how the Posti and Posti's employees want to be included in the social welfare reform. According to what I read and Prime Minister Rinne, as Mr Heinonen said there, the postmen in the village could take a look behind the window at how people can, and they said they could do the work of the medical staff. Would you like to tell me, my dear Prime Minister Rinne, if you are going to involve Post and the Postal Act in some way in the process of social reform, and how? Many postmen and nurses have been in contact with me, and they have been amazed at your statements. Now tell them what you mean.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u18	Mr President! I would have taken part in this fee discussion with Posti's management. It may be said that the incentives have not been right when you look at the fees, incentives and incentives of the post office, i.e. the top management of Posti, have, over the last few years, meant that wages have risen several times over the years, that is what can be said. But this is not just about the compensation of the top management of the Post. In connection with this debate, it has been observed that selling lottery tickets and selling liquor to Finns is also hard enough to do that you have to pay a couple of times what the Prime Minister of Finland earns. And more broadly, the debate could be seen: at the beginning of the decade, when the head of the stock exchange got about 37 employees, we already have 48. So, as a whole, the owners, the state and also pension companies, need to get their act together.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u19	Mr President! It is, in itself, important that we in the European Union have the same regulation for cross-border packages. But it is good that there is a more general discussion about Post. It has to be said that, at a time when the remuneration of senior management has risen by more than 50% in three years and at the same time large wage cuts are being imposed, this is not acceptable under any circumstances. Mr President, that is not acceptable, especially for a state-owned company, which must set an example. If we are thinking of Posti's employees, they are already doing a small job for a couple of tons of money. That is why, Mr President, it is good that this has been addressed. After all, this dates back to 2015, when Posti made a decision to amend collective agreements for early distributors. That's when they didn't interfere, they didn't interfere with the commissions. It is good that this has now been addressed. And, Minister, it would be good if you also opened up this further process. The salaries of senior management must be given a reasonable level of pay, must come to the surface of the ground and must ensure that state companies also set an example in social responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u20	Mr President! The fees of the President and CEO of the post have indeed tested the public’s sense of justice. People have contacted and updated the greed that all of this has begun to look more and more like. Yes, all management fees should be considered. People wonder how you can be such important persons, how you can be such an important person that you have earned such rewards. But then this Post-sote: Prime Minister Rinne, in 2015, you said that we have a lot of unworked work to do, among other things, in the care of the elderly and that we should be obliged to accept work in the care of the elderly, for example. Are you going to make mailmans, mailmans, including care workers for the elderly? Is this the first step that anyone can become an elderly nurse? You outsource responsibility and thus undermine the security of citizens, including patient safety. Come on, answer me this. This is what we're asking.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u21	Mr President! Indeed, the case of the post has been a legitimate test of the public's sense of justice. The salary of the President of Post is EUR 82000 per month and, at the same time, the average salary of postal people is EUR 2200, for which cuts of up to 30% are planned. After these cuts it is even difficult to cope with high housing costs in the capital region. It is very important that Mr Paatero, the Minister for Corporate Governance, has addressed this. No salary can be justified simply because there is an excessive salary, because that is the way it should be. Every salary must be justified by the fact that, in fact, the best possible person has been assigned to this task and that a lower salary would not be able to replace the person in question. I think the Posti government will find qualified people at a lower pay level than 82,000.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u22	Mr President! I find it easy to agree with the numerous speeches which have raised concerns about the reliability of Posti's operations. And it is very difficult for us, you can say, from the perspective of a vast Finnish country, if people who live across Finland no longer dare to trust that the mail will pass and the packages and letters will arrive on time. It is easy to understand, too, that citizens are confused when they read information that there may be more than five times as much reward under the leadership of state companies than, say, the top government executive. Of course, it is clear that state companies are also living in the reality of competing for skilled and competent leaders with other companies, but there should be moderation. However, I would consider it the best situation for us to have such clear principles and rules of ownership control that, in individual cases, there would be no need for ownership control or for a politician to intervene or go to the government property. But the important thing is to create these principles,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u23	Representative Halla-aho, and then ministers Marin and Paatero can comment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u24	Mr President! There has been a lot of debate about the fees of the postmaster as such, but the real problem here is that these fees and Posti's profits are being ripped out of the grass-roots, staff, backskin. Unfortunately, this problem is not limited to the Post; it is a general trend. Of course, it will be particularly sad if the state sets such an example for private individuals. The aim is to increase profits by reducing both the number of employees and salaries. In other words, in Finnish: the burden of work increases, the compensation is reduced, and the quality of service is reduced. Of course, when people do not pay the kind of pay they can make, they will no longer find employees in these jobs, and then the employer starts yelling at the legislator that we have a shortage of labour and that we need more factors elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u25	Mr President! This proposal in question really concerns the package regulation and is quite technical, as has been said here. One question came to my property about this whole review of the Postal Act. We all know that The situation in the postal sector as a whole is challenging when the number of letter mail is constantly decreasing, and good cooperation will be made here with Sirpa Paatero, the Minister of Transport and Communications and, of course, the Minister for Corporate Governance of the Ministry of Finance, when looking at this whole. For me, it is vital that citizens can be confident that mail will come home in the future, that the service will be reliable. From this point of view, I believe that the Postal Act should also be considered and the basic principles must be adhered to, just as the Government Programme itself has stated. As far as this more general debate on this current situation in relation to the Post is concerned, I fully agree with Prime Minister Rinne and Minister Paatero, who is responsible for corporate governance, that the fees for the current management of Post are totally unreasonable. I do not believe that there is a great deal of understanding in this Chamber in this current situation, where the salaries of ordinary workers are being trampled on and, at the same time, the salaries of managers are quite unreasonable. In other words, I believe that solutions can be found to this situation, and in my opinion, Mr Paatero, the Minister for Corporate Governance, has also done quite well in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u26	Mr President! First of all, here's the situation with the Post. As has already been said here, the volume of mail to be distributed over the last ten years has halved, and it does not seem to increase at all, but this reduction will deepen in this mail to be distributed. Another aspect is that 96% of Posti’s operations are market operations. The operation of the universal service obligation is therefore only a few per cent of the total operation of Posti. So they're always competing in the market. And thirdly, the fact that there is already a situation at the moment, that there are 16 other companies in competition with Posti, which operate under different collective agreements. From these points of view: The post office is moving forward. The fees have been set last time by the Board of Directors at the time of the decision on the corporate governance principle, and this is now being done at this general level. Yesterday I asked Mr Posti to make a contribution to this review now in September on how the management fees will go from here on out. The second question is this issue of collective agreements, now that the 700 people on the network and package services side are being transferred to the same joint negotiation, which will of course take place at the end of October with regard to the PAU, when the collective agreement is normally ending. This whole package is now being negotiated in full, not by being transferred separately. With regard to the dividends, which were also asked here, I have already said out that each year the state can think about and make an assessment of what is a reasonable level and how much is to be taken from it. The less income Posti has, the less dividends of course, but in exceptional cases it can always be estimated separately. Fourthly, there is the issue of social security: it is probably necessary to set up a working group that looks at the postal service law, the universal service obligation, the Posti's activities in other sectors of society, as Minister Marin said. I do not know what it will be in all its aspects in the future, but, as is currently the case, there have been links between Posti's distribution points and other offices.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u27	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Paatero for his very good and clear presentation on this issue. Now it is really good that we should take a time-out in these wage negotiations. Mr Halla-aho said here earlier that the state should set an example in these matters, and I do agree with that. We cannot allow this society to slip away from the fact that people do not get along with their wages. In any case, it will lead to their need for income support and housing support and a wide range of other subsidies. And where does that lead to actual work? I'm sure it's a loss of quality and motivation. Yes, the State must take a broader view of the matter than just the point of view of how much is the target of return and what is intended to achieve it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u28	Mr President! Justice and equity — they are important social values and must also be used to look at the activities of state-owned companies. Is it right for workers that their salaries fall by more than a third as a result of collective bargaining? Is it reasonable that, while the salaries of workers are being reduced, managers increase the annual salary of almost EUR 1 million, even so high, that the wages of other similar companies pale alongside them? Clearly, the answer is no. Large wage reductions are not right for employees, and the remuneration level of Posti's management is not reasonable. For my part, too, I thank Mr Paatero for having whistled out the game and taken the situation into consideration. On the other hand, we must also remember and recognise the difficult environment in which Posti operates in the face of intense competition, the reduction in the number of letters and the maintenance of universal service obligations. I very much hope that we can look at the target of returns or whether the universal service obligation needs to be replaced with Posti, so that we can avoid such situations and news in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u29	Mr President! At the opening of the 2014 Parliaments, President Niinistö called for a fair and fair sense of justice for those in a leading position. In his speech, Niinistö said that if management does not set a good example, it cannot reasonably be demanded of others. The President continued: ‘A little evil detector talks a lot, especially about self-indulgence,that there is no concern for anew and a sense of justice.’ Mr President! In this respect, Mr Paatero's departure from yesterday's business was more than necessary when he said that a time-out was needed for a collective bargaining dispute and that a change in the salaries of the directors was needed. However, this exit must not remain a mere populist throw. I myself will be watching the situation and I expect speeches to turn into actions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u30	Mr President! Postal services have a universal service obligation to distribute mail and, unfortunately, its quality has been clearly affected in recent times. In this situation, Posti’s management, which draws almost a million years’ earnings, is also reducing the salaries of its employees by up to 30%. Where is justice and equity? Yesterday, though, the coffee was about to go down the wrong throat when it was said that Prime Minister Rinne wanted the mailman to be part of the social solution — let's look out the window and see if everything was all right. This is very worrying: while the government is trying to find carers for nursing, home care workers are being replaced by postmen. Are you really going to replace home care workers with postmen in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u31	Mr President! As we all know, the increase in electronic communications in our society has, of course, caused the popularity of letter mail to fall terribly, and so Posti is under enormous pressure at all times. Unfortunately, this will also be reflected in how Posti is able to maintain and hire staff. It is, of course, quite blatantly at odds with the fact that there is indeed a universal service obligation and the postal service is a basic service that must operate throughout the country, at least for as long as older people live, and I personally feel that quite a few bills should be received by post instead of electronics. This activity will have to be run by the state. That is an unfortunate fact. In the opinion of the Finns Party, the most important aspect of this dispute is that the personnel policy of state companies is exemplary. It must not be oppressive to the staff. I doubt that any suggestion by Prime Minister Rinte that some home care services should be provided by Posti will be successful. Apparently, it was just a throw. Now we Finns are following what this time-out will mean and what the government will do. I hope you're holding the Post employees' side tight now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u32	I would like to give the floor to the representatives of Myllykoski and Honkonen, and then the Prime Minister will have the opportunity to comment. Then let us return to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u33	Mr President! In time, there was a saying that when Kusti pedals, the mail runs. Unfortunately, the saying now is that the Posti management is trampling on Kusti so that the bonuses will run.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u34	Mr President! It is quite clear that: Post is a universal service company and as a state company it is also bound by a certain tradition. Just as in the past, when many state-owned companies acted as though the authorities and at that time, of course, the obligations and responsibilities were similar to those of other public authorities, I believe that this tradition also obliges Posti and other state-owned companies to continue to do so, especially as regards these management fees. They should be reasonable, and we in the centre think that the remuneration of the management of state-owned companies has gone too far. I think that Mr Marin has made a very good, well thought-out and balanced speech on the direction to be taken in this area. Of course, it is also appropriate to ask the question as to the direction in which our society has become more widespread when, with the rewards of management, it seems reasonable to lose and only when there is an obligation to meet, especially when such disputes are taking place with the staff. I think it is extremely important for us here in Parliament to hold the debate and send out the message to society that it is reasonable in time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u35	Mr President! It is extremely important to note how technological developments have brought about changes in the flow of mail from the point of view of Posti. In practice, this means that Posti has been in a very difficult situation for years and years — I remember it from the previous work — with regard to this development. It must be kept separate from what has actually happened in Posti in relation to its staff. So it has been a starting point for a long time that either people are being kicked out or reduced in wages, and this is the wrong policy. It is the wrong policy for the people who work in the Post and it is the wrong policy for the customers as well. The mail does not go the way it should when there are too few resources. Well, I've listened to this conversation with interest, because I deliberately threw the opening that something more could be thought of than lowering wages or kicking people out. One idea is that we need preventive action: increased security for people, including in areas where the population is currently declining. In fact, there are postal services that travel among people every day. It might make sense to consider as part of the preventive action, that someone would go there to increase safety, knock on the door, ask if everything is all right, if you need anything tomorrow. Of course, no nursing work. They are the duties of doctors and trained nurses, but they add an extra sense of security to ensure that people feel better than they do at the moment. These are the ideas that should, in many respects, be considered in Finnish society in a slightly new way, a little more creative. I really hope that the Coalition Party and the Finns of Finland in particular will be freed from this ‘no, no, no’ attitude,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u37	Let's move on to the list of speakers. It is possible to keep actual speeches from the place for 3 minutes or, if I last longer, from the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u38	Mr President! The debate has been excellent, and it seems that we have a particularly good parliamentary consensus that Posti's activities have now gone wrong, and this Parliament, together, wants corrective moves to that end. At this point the opposition must be commended for having taken the place of the so-called watchdog, and I am confident that you will do the job well.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u41	Mr President! With regard to this interconnection of postal problems and a social solution, I would like to continue to comment on this, because I believe that the availability of labour and, at the same time, the way in which the various professional groups are valued is well culminated in this. The training of postal staff and the training of medical staff are quite different. If we are going to talk about anyone’s ability to do that work, we will at the same time wreck yes and undervalue our trained, professional staff. It’s all right if the mailman is also a nearby nurse or nurse and we agree on common work models, but the other thing is that we make the mailmen do the work that belongs to the home care, go to the people’s home — though, if we just look out the window, then we don’t disturb privacy yet. This involves many everyday matters, confidentiality obligations, privacy and also many other laws that protect a person’s home, and so it should be. We must respect our old people, but we must also respect and respect our employees, and Post office workers as well as care workers. Today, the elderly in home care are very heavily cared for. They are multi - diseased and need a lot of care and care. If it is enough to visit once a day, it is usually an elderly person who is still doing pretty well at home, but most of our elderly today are those who need a lot of care, so this will not solve this problem. I hope, therefore, that these are now clearly kept separate, the law on social services and postal matters. The situation in the post office certainly needs a thorough and thorough assessment of how we can ensure that this joint service obligation of Posti is guaranteed, that everyone gets their mail on time as it should, and also manage the health and safety of the employees of the state-owned company in a fair way and give up these oversized executive salaries.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u42	Mr President! The digital revolution has, of course, revolutionised Posti’s operations — the number of letters to be transported has fallen by half in ten years — but at the same time, its impact has been somewhat offset by the fact that packages have been ordered from online stores and in such a way. There has then been more markets for the post office in this respect. But I personally think that the basic problem in this painful situation in which Posti is now facing is that the state's revenue targets are simply too high in relation to this situation in the Posti case, so that, in the case of well-functioning management, it leads to savings being pulled out of the workers' backs, in pursuit of the results which then measure the management's performance. If the company did not have to pay such a large dividend to the State, which has currently been around EUR 30 million per year, then it would not be necessary to apply for these cost savings, for example by reducing employees' wages. I believe that this is something that the government should think very seriously about now, and when Posti is a wholly state-owned company, it is absurd if small wages are cut in such a way that these people then have to rely on social support from the state budget. I personally hope that the social welfare system, which is already very difficult, will not be confused with this Post. It is important that: The post will remain there, which is the core competence: it is there in the area of letters and parcels and other transports. However, postal workers must be guaranteed working conditions and a salary that allows them to continue their work with a smile, and they must also secure the basic services required by universal service obligations for citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u43	Mr President! It is important that the autumn session of Parliament begins with a debate on the importance of Posti. The confidentiality of the message for Finns and, on the other hand, the reliable delivery of the message has played an enormous role throughout history, if we consider how today's Finland has been building a network of horseroads built in this country since the 17th century, whose stems we can still see on those current maps, or consider the most difficult moments of the nation's destiny, when the field mail brought greetings to the home front from there to where the home front belongs. The will to fight and morale could be maintained even at the most difficult moments when the message was delivered reliably. Now, of course, we are living in a new age, a whole new kind of challenge, but if we have managed to get the mail across these wilderness and salomalands of this country and the fells of Lapland, and in times as difficult as the winter and the years of the continuing war, Posti has reached everyone, then it must reach every Finn in this time as well. This new era, of course, requires new ideas, and therefore I would not entirely reject Prime Minister Rinne's very refreshing thinking in itself that, when we have such a resource and people who visit familiar neighbourhoods every day all over the country, it could be used in some way to make use of their presence there. I very much appreciate Mr Laiho, Mr Juvose and Mr Räsänen's knowledge and broad understanding of social services and I fully agree with you that, of course, postal staff cannot be required to have social and health care skills, but I think that the Prime Minister is right that when we think about the wide range of issues in this country, it certainly makes sense to make use of the resources which come from the fact that postal distributors throughout the country still visit all the addresses on a daily basis, and to consider how the work of Post employees can be increased so that it responds to today's needs in a way that enables Post employees to get paid in the future and to experience valuable work in the same way that Posti employees have done for the good of this country for hundreds of years. Here again, I would like to challenge the ministers — great that you are taking part in the debate: how do we really ensure that, on the one hand, the delivery of mail, on the other hand, is secured throughout Finland in the future? That is also what we will certainly want to hear in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u44	Mr President! The post office has been undergoing major structural change over the past few years, and it is just as Ville Tavio of the Finns Party said that digitalism has reduced the amount of mail. Also, many people do not want or are able to receive the letter mail, such as bills, because the bills are charged and they are unreasonable costs. For example, telephone bills may then be billed for the paper bill. It is very important for the people of Peru that the mail passes, and, with concern, you will also hear messages about whether there are enough staff and whether the mail will arrive, whether the package will arrive. I also find it extremely worrying that everyone should: You can't send a package at the post office service points. You should order it online too. And the more these services become digital and move to the Internet and thus have to deal with things, the more difficult they become. We have an ageing population, we have a large number of elderly people and very many people in rural areas who are waiting for their mail and also want their letters to be sent, and that will prove impossible. Yes, the Finns of Finland follow this situation and then take measures on the subject, as well as on the remuneration of these managers. I believe that a special task force should be set up in Finland to consider these management fees and everything we know about. It is unreasonable that there are persons who are so richly rewarded. It does not sink into the Finnish sense of justice. Justice and fairness have also been mentioned here — that is very important. And that greed: After all, for everyone it’s an important salary and for everyone it’s an important benefit. They are held by claws and teeth, and it always takes some big noise to get such a head opening. But then I want to go back to this war. Indeed, it is a civil duty to look after one another and help one another if necessary and to report the need for help. But I am concerned about the development that, in a way, a postal worker was also obliged to peek through windows and knock on the door and ask what was going on. It also has safety risks, it has all the possible ideas that can come to mind. Nursing must not be outsourced, and under no circumstances should home care and postal work be combined. Now, as a nurse, I get the fear of combining home care and postal services — while the nearby nurse distributes the mail as she sees how the old man can, at best measure blood pressure, give the medicine and so forth. So that's what we're gonna fight for. We have a professional identity in Finland: nursing work for nurses, monitoring and observation, and then Posti works for others. And I certainly hope that people will send letters and mail so that the postmen will also have the job and the pay will be right.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u45	I will give this part of the debate two more speeches that have been asked for. Then we move on to the next issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u46	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. I would like to address this problem of the flow of mail and the quality side, since we are talking here mainly about money and salary. In 2017, at least here in the capital region, postal traffic suddenly began to deteriorate considerably. At least there were a lot of people concerned about it in the suburbs. Based on their experience, I made a complaint to the Ombudsman about how the postal service is secured in Finland and how Posti supervises the delivery of mail. This became the first complaint that the Ombudsman has raised regarding Posti. He gave his ruling last year and stated that the flow of letters from the authorities seemed to be outside the scope of the requirements and supervision for handling universal service letters, but also outside the scope of criminal law. He asked the Ministry of Transport and Communications whether Article 21 of the Postal Code should be assessed. The responsibilities of the post office are specified in relation to the delivery of letters from the authorities. According to its own interpretation, it is not obliged to monitor the delivery of these letters of office, i.e. business and public authorities at all, but the Assistant Ombudsman thus interprets the matter differently. The Assistant Ombudsman therefore finds it unsatisfactory that Posti’s liability for legal service procedures has in practice been limited to only a small fraction of the mail, i.e. to those postal letters financed by private individuals. The Assistant Ombudsman draws attention to the fact that this limitation of liability appears to be based on Post's own interpretation of the purpose of the relevant act. He seemed to have another interpretation of it. I hope that the government will consider whether there is a problem here that should be corrected. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u47	Mr President! I would also like to say a few words about this so-called postal war, which has been criticised in this debate. It is certainly the case that it is the duty of every citizen to look a little after fellows, to ask what is going on, and to ask how to stand up. But the fact that we are really giving the postmen the task of starting to do the things that traditionally belong to the home care sector certainly does not make sense. On the other hand, you have to remember that in rural areas, those mailboxes are not just by the wall, so you don't just look at them while the mail is being delivered, but there may be several hundred meters still to go to the door if you want to go on the same trip to see how you are doing at home. This is a good thing to keep in mind when we look at these new tasks. And in itself, as we all know in this Chamber last season, socialism is a very challenging exercise, so I'm sure it's no longer a good idea to involve these different employment disputes in the Post. But it is clear that Posti has a profitability problem, and certainly in this increasingly competitive situation, the sectors that are exposed to competition have had their own impact. It is of the utmost importance here, above all, that political actors restore public confidence in the Post. In this previous speech, the representative: The schoolteacher made a good point about this instance, which is of concern to us at the moment: the unemployed are not informed in time of the various job offers or the fact that different measures have been proposed to them, which may be the worst result of the fact that, for reasons that are not self-involved, for example, they may be subject to a procedure of toughness, or in a dislocation area, for example, for example, the different times of the authorities — medical times, reception times or the like — may come so late that people may find it difficult to organise their daily lives or even come when the matter has been forgotten. Not to mention the fact that, at the moment, many provincial newspapers are wondering how to ensure that Friday and Thursday magazines will not be distributed until the next week in the sparsely populated area. In that way, you could say that this is also reflected in the media, i.e. the subscriptions to newspapers to be distributed will drop if this issue of reliability and topicality is not put right. But I am indeed pleased that Minister Paatero is willing to intervene in these management fees and perhaps even more broadly to look at the entire system of remuneration for directors of state companies. Incomprehensible sums have been made available through these bonus schemes, and I understand that up to 1.4 million could have been raised at worst by these management fees. This is totally unacceptable, and it is completely incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u48	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u49	We will now resume the debate on the 8th item which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u50	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the Postal Act in such a way that national legislation meets the requirements laid down in the Regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council. According to the proposal, the Agency would act as the competent authority and there would be a slight increase in administrative costs, but not so significantly that it would have significant budgetary implications. Similarly, in the case of private operators, the economic impact is estimated to be weak. The purpose of the Postal Act is to ensure the availability of postal services, in particular universal service, on equal terms throughout the country. At the moment, the future of mail delivery seems gloomy. Just as Mrs Myllykoski has already explained, many reasons have been behind this for years. The coverage of distribution has deteriorated, and in peripheral areas in particular, mail travels less frequently. When the staff suffers, the functions are outsourced and wages are trampled, Posti often calls for increased competition and thus reduced profitability. Despite this, Posti apparently can afford and dare to raise the level of management fees. This is rather rude, and it is no wonder that people have pulled a pea into their noses, so to speak. I'm sure a qualified leader would be found, even if the salary and other bonuses were a third of the present. In view of the development of Posti’s operations during the present director’s time, the result cannot be satisfied. The salaries of the heads of state-owned companies are high and high, but we cannot blame the leaders for this; we politicians can look in the mirror, because we have made this work possible for our part. It is a good thing that the Minister has promised to take this up, and it must have been inspired by the fact that the tabloids have intervened in the most glaring, big headlines — which I could now say to the media this time — and in the social media debate it is really hot. Well, I think it's better that we get to grips with it now — better late than never. The wrongs should be corrected soon and, in general, the state's corporate governance needs to be learned from this episode. Finally, I would like to say that the image of Finland as a country of minor corruption is perhaps not as well deserved as we imagine. Old parties have a strong tradition of ganging all over the world, and we should put a stop to this. This policy, which elevates the government's wage bill, is an example of how the tax money is spent with sorrow. The Finns are on different lines. In 2016, I took an initiative to address the current problem, but these initiatives pack up to be forgotten, under the piles of paper in the committees. And finally: During the summer I also talked to our postman Masku many times, and one day he was still at 5:00 to deliver the mail. He had spent many hours working overtime because summer places were there and, of course, they could not immediately know things. But this person did and has done a really great job on a really small salary, so that you just have to raise your hat so that you can be able to work and not take the line that you prefer to be at home and accept support. It would not be surprising either, because the money between the salary and the minimum wage you receive when you are unemployed is so small. So, as our representative and Chairman Halla-aho of the Finns Party said: Yes, Finland needs to get along on salary. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u51	Mr President! It is a good thing that, in this context, a slightly broader approach is allowed regarding remuneration and earnings schemes and award schemes in state-owned companies. First of all, Mr Räsänen made a good speech about the need for the post office to function properly insofar as the law obliges it to do so, and if it is not possible to carry out its activities properly, then the government should not receive very much revenue if it cannot afford to consider the actual activity to be appropriate. But with regard to this remuneration in general, I think it would be a good idea to tie up the pay line of the state so that a certain factor determines the maximum salary that may be in proportion to the salary of the Prime Minister. All of a sudden, I find it difficult to determine what that coefficient might be, but it should be a maximum ceiling, and it cannot go beyond that in its wage policy. Another thing that is much easier for you to define, at least for yourself: different kinds of bonuses and others that create reward schemes should be set at a clear maximum in relation to salary. It is easy and simple, and all the reward systems that go over it are as if they are being reset. At least my own view is that this kind of remuneration system should start from the fact that the maximum is 25 percent of your salary, i.e. three months' salary, and over-emerging earning systems and bonus schemes should not be accepted by the state, and where minority owners are, this line should always be represented. The stock exchange companies are separate and those companies where the State does not have control can, of course, be considered somewhat different on market terms.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u52	Mr President! Very often we have a habit of raising the issue when there are some problems. As has been seen today, there have been problems with the postal sector and then there is an attempt to react to them afterwards. This is the work of the law that came into force in 2011. It was then that this market-based postal activity was put on the market. It was then possible for different operators to leave the cream on the top, but this universal postal service was left to Posti, and now that the amount of mail has fallen, we are in this situation. But I know that, of course, it would have to be put out of taxpayers' money if all the mail were to be distributed at the moment, in accordance with this universal service obligation, everywhere. Above all, this shopping of collective agreements has given rise to wonder, i.e. different collective agreements have led to competition in these sectors of Posti's activities. Perhaps the worst thing is to try to lower the wages of low-income workers. It will then benefit management, which already has very high merits, and this alone does not apply to Posti, this applies to all state-owned companies. For example, VR’s Director’s result was over EUR 800000 in 2016. Yes, this affects all state companies, and it is very good that Mr Paatero has raised this issue now. In my opinion, all state companies must go through and give instructions to the government on how to proceed. This system, which Mr Myllykoski mentioned, could probably be one possibility, but also one of looking at collective agreements and collective agreements in such a way that it is no longer possible to shop, as Mrs Myllykoski pointed out in her own speech. And I still wish the Post, of course, and above all those workers, success, that they can still get along on their own merits. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u53	Mr President! The recent issues and news of the post are worrying: the salaries of the staff and the reliability of the Post in general. However, electronic stuff, digital, Internet and such, is never accessible to everyone, never. We also need that paper-based postal service. Postal services must be secured throughout Finland. It is just the way it is — they must be protected throughout the country. It never happens the way everyone has Internet and digitals at home. Prime Minister Rinte's idea to combine Post and social media really surprised me. I couldn't help but wonder when I heard this news. The mail is a whole different thing. It's a completely different thing. Post office workers do really valuable work on their own, and so do health care staff, they do valuable work on their own, but that they look through the window and evaluate people’s requests for help — that’s not exactly how it works. But we all have to help when we see there's an emergency, but what if the customer doesn't show up through the window: what do we do, go inside or what do we do? You have to be clear about the responsibility issue, and this is not how it can go. Do the staff really have to go inside, or do we have to call for more help, or do we have to do what? It cannot be authorized that man is always seen from the window, certainly cannot, it is not in accordance with human dignity. I hope that Minister Rinte's idea is not the opinion of the entire government. Or, if you go to this kind of connection, is it really going to happen that fast letters are taken by ambulance all over the villages? Prime Minister Rinne pointed out that the Finns always say ‘no’, ‘no’. I disagree with Prime Minister Rinte. Yes, the Finns say yes, yes, yes and yes to good things.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u54	Mr President! This postal matter has been mentioned in this last few days, and it has come to light the high salary of the executives, and at the same time efforts are being made to cut off the worker's salary, the one who is there in the postal services themselves. This is in no way acceptable. And I am sure, if I have understood correctly, this amendment to the Postal Act has been due to the fact that the European Union has been involved. It has changed this way that this has been free of competition. In other words, our own agencies should use Posti's service and not hand it over to private people, so I would like Post to stay in his place where it is designed to start. And what I consider to be very unhealthy is that the logistics and transportation of Posti has taken over truck traffic with unfair competition. This is what comes to mind today, when we have quite organized transport from that province, and truck drivers and van drivers have arranged for a number of representatives from the front door to the Parliament. The post office is about two or three years ago made this kind of new territorial conquest: they have moved on to transporting cold-driving food. I do not think it is very good that the state company is going to compete in such sectors that have previously been managed through private transport companies. And there has been a great deal of communication from the transport companies that these offers are completely unhealthy and that mileage prices have fallen and that, if possible, The post office would carry it out on its own mission. If some new additions are taken, what they start to do, then perhaps it would be better to use this sort of larger conclave and wonder if it is so that it offends some other entrepreneur's position. I now hope that the Post employees will be allowed to continue with the same agreements they have had up to now, and I hope that this matter can be dealt with quickly by the government and Parliament, also with regard to this CEO. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u55	Madam President! The post office, the current multi-purpose company in the state, has been very much wallpapered and in human conversations. This government proposal to amend the Postal Act is, I hope, a starting point for the common will which I have felt as if I have been sensing from very good speeches around the Chamber that this The collective bargaining of postal workers will be put in place to ensure that none of Posti’s 700 workers — which is now on the table — would be in a situation where earnings would fall by as much as 50%, as has been said in the Chamber. Remuneration of management There has been a very wide-ranging public debate on the postal sector. I can only agree with that, because if we think that there is a CEO in a state company in Finland who beats the annual salaries of some of the presidents of the major powers by the time it comes to it, then the question arises for such a poor man is that how hard men we have there in the management of the state must be really hard. Such rewards are likely to make great exclamation points for the public in their speech bubbles. It is no wonder that there is indeed a loud conversation there. I do agree to a large extent with these strong opinions. The fact that workers' salaries are being reduced by 30-50% gives me the impression that this is something someone can think — someone who has started such negotiations — that this should be the case. How can it be thought that a person will get along after such a cut in wages is made? So there are certainly a wide range of employees among the 700: there are those who have been working for a short time, there are those who have worked for a long postal career, but in any case, they are all equally valuable to us Finns in doing that work in that slump and pylvy when the package and everything else is delivered from there. When such a person is cut 50 percent of the price, there may be a problem with how to handle family house loans and so forth. That is clear to all of us, but let me give you an example. Well, then, of course, a small word must also be said about our Prime Minister's razor-sharp idea of window-shrinking service, which was then likely to awaken, once again, a debate among the public. At this point we must also take a little eyebrow, because I thought it was a joke at first, but now, today in this Chamber, the Prime Minister said it was not a joke. I wish,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u56	Madam President! Usually it is quite difficult to go to another’s job to take a stand: what it should contain or not. It's very risky. I can't do it. But one thing I will comment on once again — I am an opposition politician, but I am not saying no to everything and no: in my opinion, the public comments made by Prime Minister Rinte and Minister Paatero, who is responsible for corporate governance, on these pay and remuneration systems have been excellent. Of course, they have been discussed many times over the years in this Chamber, but that is why I am taking the floor so that nothing is done about them again, that we are all horrifying here, but when the months go by, we will forget the whole thing, and then the wars and the other heats will come and they will not come back. I therefore hope that the Social Democratic MPs will give Mr Paatero the message that he will bring this up in this Chamber in some way. In my opinion, compensation schemes are good when they apply to all employees in the company. For management, we have to tailor the remuneration systems separately. It cannot be dealt with many times in the same way as employees, but if the workers are not in the reward systems and there is only management, it will cause disunity, and I think it is bad management. I still think that these are terribly easy things. In many cases, the remuneration systems are so complex that even the members of the board will ultimately not understand what is at stake. That's why you have to put a simple component in there, like that percentage. Then you can't go over it and everyone knows what the maximum is. In general, a good remuneration system is in no way solely tied to the result, but there are many different components. There may be half a dozen components on the basis of which additional workers and management will be allocated. When it comes to high pay, the starting point must be that a person works hard for it. Now comes a bit of such a perception in this society that if you don't have a proper reward system, then you don't have to work properly until you have a reward system. It can't be so.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u57	Madam President! In this Chamber we are extremely good at interpreting ministers' speeches, and a little in the wrong direction, to be honest. There has been a good debate here, and I welcome the fact that Ministers Paatero and Rinne took up the issue of ownership guidance as soon as this came up. As far as workers are concerned, this TES shopping must in no way be allowed, but we — and Rinne is right about it — must also genuinely look at the field of employment and, in particular, at it from the point of view of job security. It may be somewhere in a small, sparsely populated village that a grandmother meets someone once a day in the village, perhaps a social worker in the village, and gets to talk. That postman and that postman can play a major role in the daily activities of people in these sparsely populated areas. It is clear that when distribution dates have been reduced and tasks reduced, the future of these jobs will also be asked, and at the same time the future of this field will be widely asked. Under no circumstances are there any health - care tasks to be put there, but we must openly see whether it can be used in any way from the point of view of those jobs. Well, then to this corporate governance, and it is clear that there are shortcomings there now, and I quickly considered that the political boards of directors are very precise in terms of ownership control, but then, when we go to the chairmanships of the governments and to the executives, we are a long way from corporate governance, and that is something that I hope will be addressed during this process.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u58	Mr President! Fortunately, today we have been able to discuss this current state of the Post. It has given rise to a lot of civil debate. This technical reform of the Postal Act, which is in itself perfectly sensible, is a good thing to go through, but there is also this broader debate. One important reason for the growing dissatisfaction with Posti is the marked slowdown in the delivery of mail compared with previous years. With the Postal Act that entered into force in 2017, at least half of the letters and cards bearing stamps must be received by the fourth working day at the latest, and this is a major change to the previous situation. Before the amendment, at least 95% of the shipments had to be delivered by the second working day at the latest. Mr President! The price of postal services has also risen clearly. For example, at the beginning of 2008, the standard letter or card was sent in first class for 70 cents and the second class was only 60 cents. On the other hand, after the price increase in August 2019, the cost of mailing the letter and the card is already EUR 1.60. Thus, in less than 12 years, the consumer price index has risen by only about 16 per cent, while the price of the stamp has risen by over 160 per cent. Undeniably, Posti is faced with increasing cross-pressure between competition and e-services, but these high price increases are likely to have had a very significant impact on the rapid reduction in letter delivery. Mr President! These plans for changing the working conditions of Posti's employees and drastic wage cuts, which have been made public in recent days, and also the high remuneration of management, have given rise to legitimate and widespread outrage on the part of the citizens. The lack of Minister Paatero and the time-out in this respect are steps in the right direction but are still far from sufficient. In our opinion, as a state company, Posti should show that he is a long-term and responsible employer, and we now expect the government and the management of Posti to take prompt and decisive steps to restore Post and improve its reputation considerably in the eyes of the public.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u59	Madam President! In fact, I will continue with what Mr Eskelinen mentioned earlier, from this election of the Post Government or, in fact, from the election of the governments of state companies in general. According to my memory — this is my memory — this is the kind of board of directors that always elects the board of directors for the company concerned and then presents it at the annual meeting, and that's where this choice goes. So this is a rather complicated system, and this could be considered a very kind of gentlemen's club, that only then those familiar and well-known will be chosen there. This is certainly one of the things that could be very strongly addressed. The Minister of Ownership is not really able to do very much. Of course, he can hold a debate and recite, but at the annual meeting he can then, of course, express his own views on the composition of the government. And, as we know, the board of directors is very much elected on political grounds, and the board of directors elects the CEO, and that is where we should get this job started. I, too, would like to address this issue raised by Mrs Rinte when I am from that sparsely populated area, Kainuu. I see this there as a very well-functioning system, because there the mailman knows all the residents of his area, roughly, and knows what their way of life are, and if you go in the morning and the lights don't appear and normally there are lights or any other movement is not reacting or something like this, then you might immediately wonder that something is wrong, and maybe you can go and see if everything is all right. This is the kind of precaution of sparsely populated areas, and this kind could well be the deliveryer then reacting. Then the second thing that has been discussed on the Posti side is these services, which I believe is that even now Posti is delivering more than just packages when it is agreed, and I think it has also been discussed that medicines could be distributed by the postman — which is quite possible when they are simply packaged in a certain way and with a name, so that they do not go to the wrong addresses. This is the type of decision that has been talked about and certainly made there, but this is a difficult situation in the sense that the income of people close to retirement is being reduced in this way, so that something should be invented that they can be kept at work, and it is this system of remuneration that should also affect these lower parts, and if it is a percentage, then we all know,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u60	Madam President! I think it has been a valuable debate here today in Parliament on postal services. Some might say that it is a good thing that we are having this debate at least now. Valuable speeches across the board. I'm glad they're talking about the Post. It is good that we have also identified in a way the problems created by this kind of corporateization process. We recognise, however, that Posti has a public service mission of this kind, a universal service obligation which it automatically also has in Finland. This The post office has been almost an official activity in the past, and it has now come back to this form of company, which is the result of many of the problems that have been referred to here. The contributions were also valuable, and they were very specific to the situation that, in any event, through this incorporation, the postal services were clearly weakened in quality — every citizen knows it — regardless of what the Minister here pointed out, that demand for traditional letter services of that particular type has fallen sharply. That is certainly true, but in any case this deterioration in services has been experienced by every citizen. It has also been valuable in today's discussions that it has been recognised that there can be no risk, difficulties in carrying out the worker, performing the steps and incentives, profits, benefits then go to the company's management. It has come to this inconceivable tear that, on the one hand, we are prepared to weaken working conditions for workers and, at the same time, these incentives, as if only reward management for treating employees as they are. The great and most valuable thing in this debate has been what the ministers have pointed out here, from the Prime Minister to the Minister responsible for corporate governance, that we want to tackle this issue now. I'm sure this government will take it. It's valuable. And I am sure that it is for all of us in this House to say that we are talking about Post, but of course the same problems also exist in other state companies. Then, of course, we will have to be able to open them at some point, without having such a scandal beneath us, which will raise it like a stick. There should be a comprehensive debate here on what these compensation schemes are and how these issues can be taken forward together.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u61	Mr President! I think that this rather technical government proposal has given rise to a very delicious debate on values, and I am pleased that it has been allowed to take place here in Parliament's plenary session. I can assure you that the Centre will also monitor the development of the postal issue in this current postal crisis with a very close eye, not only is home service appreciated as a social welfare service for social services, but also that the postal service will continue to run throughout Finland. The post office's mission is clearly different from that of the sods. Home care is a demanding form of social services that cannot be replaced by people who do not have education or know-how in the field of social services. I see, however, that the new tasks are not decided from the Parliament, but are more shaped in that everyday life. I come to think of a case like that last summer, when there were these intense heats: firemen contacted me very much, that it was difficult when home care service didn't include opening a window, and then our elderly people, grandmas and papas, were very hot in the apartments quite unwittingly. In the case of such tasks, I am not just talking about social services, but rather about this kind of wider care, which I look forward to seeing with an open mind what it might be suitable for. I am open to seeking new solutions for Posti's activities, but we must look far away with them. In time, there was a heated debate in this Chamber about whether mail was delivered three or five days a week, while our neighbouring country experimented with this type of mail distribution on a drone plane. It may be that the future will bring us new solutions or even today, but at the moment I am making sure that we defend the value of Posti's employees' skills. And then to these executive salaries and commissions. I think it is a very good thing that corporate governance intervened in this unfair issue of management remuneration under the leadership of Minister Paatero. The future of mail must indeed be safeguarded, because the postal service is a vital service for all of us Finns in terms of the flow of information. However, these gross salaries are not appropriate. Such wage differentials are not justified by knowledge, competition or any other factor and argument I have heard so far. Having weakened the position of the boards of state-owned companies and transferred power to the boards of directors of companies, I believe that the salaries and bonuses of government professionals and senior executives have gradually begun to rise to nearly EUR 1 million in annual earnings. These are not justified in my view. I hope that:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u62	Is the debate on this Post thing over? This took on the nature of the topical debate, but I am sure that this debate was in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u63	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u64	Mr President! The proposal to amend the laws governing the field of activity of the Digi Information and Population Information Office is a follow-up to the establishment of the actual agency in this Chamber last spring, which already covered the concept of this agency and also the combination of these two agencies, and a line was made that the actual offices will then be decided by decree. This agency will therefore officially start on 1 January 20, and this is also the way we have prepared ourselves in the budget for this change in advance. In this case, these legislative changes, which appear in this rather large package, are those resulting from the division of work between the Population Register Centre, the Local Register Office or the Local Register Offices or the Offices. They are mainly name changes in these many laws because the former Population Register Centre and Local Register Offices were now merged into the Digi and Population Information Office. A major change at the time of this change was to move from regional agencies to one national agency with offices across Finland. The Agency also covers the territory of Åland, where the functions, such as the duties of the guardianship authority, marriage ceremony, notary duties and so on, will continue to be carried out by the State Agency of Åland. Improvements in this law will be made to the status of the Sámi language, i.e. changes in the language law so that, so far, only the Local Register Office of Lapland has had Sámi-language services, it is now possible to obtain Sámi-language services elsewhere in Finland according to different service needs. Different agencies have different registers, and in this case data are now being arranged in two separate registers, which also improve data security and data protection for people. I hope — I believe and see it — that from the point of view of people, individuals, this situation will be clearer and the procedures will be more straightforward. This is the subject of this motion, which is now coming to the Administrative Committee for consideration, i.e. in the big picture a continuation of the previous government proposal. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u65	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. I felt it was my duty to take the floor here. I myself am the Local Register Office's spirit writer from my base office, and from the beginning of January I am the spirit writer of the Digi and Population Information Office. It is good for us to discuss the role of the Local Register Office. It is a very old agency, and many of our citizens know the Local Register Office well. One of the most well-known things at the Local Register Office is, of course, civil marriages, the fact that we have been married at the Local Council. For example, as can be seen from this government proposal on page 10, local register offices are regional government authorities and their tasks are governed by different laws. The current Local Register Office, the future Digi and Population Information Office have a very wide field of work. I mentioned that civil marriage. I myself have also served as a public notary. That is a very important task. In the case of foreign trade, for example, documents and the right to sign are strengthened and legalised. The transaction does not run if such documents are not in order. However, not everything can be handled by electronic documents. Similarly, the Local Register Office performs guardianship duties. I've been doing those things myself for ten years, and here I don't know if I can talk about those problems. We have just talked about the care of the elderly, and the Local Register Office is a body of lobbyists and oversees their activities regarding the management of the assets of the elderly and, for example, the mentally disabled or children. There's a lot of holes in the Hallowing Act. It is a law that is more than 20 years old and, in time, it was not used in the Constitutional Committee, for example, although it restricts people's self-determination quite significantly. Of course, I would have asked if Mr Henriksson had been here, but I can ask in another context whether there are any kind of updates to the Act on guardianship. The Local Register Office has limited competence in certain situations, i.e. the future Digi and Population Information Office, to help people in their emergency situations, and answers to these problems would be needed. Some attempts were made to respond to them by means of self-determination last season, but there were very weak and poorly prepared points, so it fell. There are a lot of gaps in which we should have an answer, such as the situation of an elderly person living at home and living there, for example, his daughter or son, and this old man's will is very far in the back pocket of this child, and the Local Register Office cannot oblige this person to carry out health checks in order to check whether this person is thus legally capable of obtaining assistance as he needs, for example, or whether he refuses to go to the doctor for some reason or whether he is in need of help and care. Minister Paatero, you told me that this will now be one agency and then there will be different locations, and I would actually have asked if it was intended to reduce these local offices. If you take into account this client base, there will of course be a lot of minors and their parents who have poor access to meetings, especially the sick and the elderly, who will not all be able to communicate, for example through video communications. Of course, it has also been developed, but certain people with memory disorders, for example, cannot really be connected to a camera because of their health. It causes them a lot of health anxiety. I would have asked what this location is. For example, in my home town, Hyvinkää has a local register office where I myself have worked for a long time, and I feel that these local services are also important because of the fact that there are public notaries, civil weddings — the district courts do not currently have much time for these civil weddings — and in particular these services of guardianship. That is what I would have liked an answer to, and I am sure that I know that many present-day locals are waiting for information on these site issues. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u66	Mr President! Sirpa Paatero, Minister of Local Government, Corporate Governance and Corporate Governance, is grateful for having taken up his duties very strongly and taking these little things like rye bread forward, and thank you for the vigorous grab. Thank you also to Mrs Mere, who knows what is going on there in the everyday life of this changed Digi and Population Information Office — a very competent and fine speech. I asked for the floor because, last season, when the Local Register Offices changed to this one office, it came up when we in the Administrative Committee discussed it that the Local Register Office, which, however, plays a pretty big role in the everyday lives of many Finns — it is getting married, matters of guardianship and other such everyday and very intimate and personal matters — is quite familiar to many Finns, however, it is such a strong historical term. Now that this new agency’s name seems a little strange and it is such a kind of new language, perhaps a healthy one could suggest to the government that it might be possible to consider whether this Local Register Office could be used in any way, because it seems more natural to many people that we were consecrated at the Local Register Office than when we were consecrated at the Digi and Population Information Office. It is worth considering how to communicate to the public and whether this good, traditional name, yet rather plain-language localist name, could still be used in some way in the administration.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u67	Mr President! That's right, Congressman Kurvinen. Yes, I myself wonder that “have gone to the office to marry ” from hearing to hearing. In fact, today I just met the people who are doing this preparatory work at the moment, and this was one good performance, not only as regards the weddings of the Local Register Office, but in many other places there are customs and words used to people who have been in this Finnish society for a hundred years, activities that are familiar with the past, and in any case they must be considered there. For this site network issue: As I said, the law that was here in the spring had the power to adopt a regulation, and that regulation is about to enter into a consultation, after which it will take decisions. It should be noted, however, that in addition to its establishment network, there will be a network of offices which will not come at the level of the regulation, i.e. those offices which, among other things, can operate at a joint service point with other state authorities, even if with the tax authority or others, in common premises and in certain days. This will probably be the thing that will make it easier to get local services. Once the network has defined the opening hours and the scope of the services, there will therefore be two different levels of networks. This regulation is on the way for consultation and then decisions will be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u68	President! I would have asked Minister Paatero: what is your view, are you going to give money or guidance to those local services and offices? Now you have said that there is a consultation, but it is very interesting and important what the Government and the Ministry think is about how many local services there should be. I myself have worked at the joint service point to provide the local register office services at the time in Lake Nurmijärvi in Klaukkala, and then at least electronic communications worked so badly that nothing really could be done there. Then, at the point where we start by having this service provided through the joint service points, we should ensure that those electronic services work. The local register office has tried to reform them, and money has always been burned, but the registers have always stood and the electronic services have not made much progress. It's kind of like poking, poking, poking.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u69	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. — The report will be presented by Mr Junnila.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u70	Mr President! We will discuss the report of the Finnish delegation of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly for 2018, when Aila Paloniemi was chaired. The report begins with the phrase: ‘The increase in inter-East tensions and the issue of conflict have reflected the activities These discussions have been marked, inter alia, by the conflict in Ukraine, prolonged conflicts, terrorism and the political, economic and social challenges posed by migration. At the same time, the role of the OSCE General Assembly as a forum for discussion has been emphasised.” This could just as well be an introduction to this year's report. I am therefore mirroring last year's report in relation to what happened this year. It has been considered important for the delegation to hold an up-to-date debate in the same context. The new OSCE mission in Finland, which I run, has already had the opportunity to participate in sessions and election observation this year, and we have found that the crises, conflicts and challenges in the OSCE region are more or less similar. This year, the main theme of the OSCE session was the role of parliaments in promoting sustainable development and security. The discussions were sometimes torn up and the adoption of the final document on the last day of the sitting was partly in a confused mood. Russia and Turkey opposed the entries in the final document. The discussions repeated familiar confrontations and statements regarding the crisis in Ukraine, in particular Crimea, the situation in Georgia, Abkhazia and South Ossetia, Nagorno-Karabakh and the attitude towards the genocide in Armenia. In addition to these country-specific topics, last year and this year the General Assembly discussed the general phenomena and challenges threatening democratic security. On the basis of the initiatives taken by the Member States, the fight against corruption, the role of civil society in achieving the OSCE objectives, energy security and many other issues were discussed. The importance of multilateral international cooperation in promoting sustainable development was raised. Parliamentary diplomacy is, of course, an important part of multilateralism. I myself asked the Slovak Foreign Minister of the OSCE Presidency in Luxembourg in July. Mr Lajčáki expressed his view of the security threat posed by foreign fighters. Mr Lajčák said that the fight against terrorism was one of the priorities of the country's Presidency and that the issue was discussed at a high-level conference in Bratislava in March. He also regretted that no progress had been made. Last year the autumn session of the General Assembly was held in Kyrgyzstan, and this year the meeting will take place in Morocco. This is an indication and a reminder of the wide geographical dimension of the OSCE and also of the fact that the values and principles of the OSCE are valid in a wide geographical area. Last year the focus was on Central Asia. This year, we will examine the situation in North Africa and the Mediterranean as a whole. These meetings are an excellent opportunity for us parliamentarians to network and get firsthand information about the situation in different countries. The role of the Parliamentary Assembly within the OSCE is to serve as a forum for discussion and constructive support for OSCE intergovernmental activities. It is of great benefit to the Finnish delegation that the Emeritus President of the General Assembly, Ilkka Kanerva, is a member of the General Assembly presidency and is able to monitor and promote dialogue between the General Assembly and the OSCE Council of Ministers through this status. President George Tseretel was elected at the Luxembourg meeting to continue his duties. Although the election was carried out by a closed flag vote, I dare say with caution that the Finnish delegation considered the selection of Chernobyl to be important, in particular because of the status of Kanerva. The Finnish delegation has continuous and constructive contacts with the Permanent Representation of Finland to the OSCE and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We will continue along the same lines during this parliamentary term. In this context, I would also like to thank the officials of the international service for their excellent background work. Mr President! In recent decades, election observation has been the most visible operational activity of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. Monitoring missions shall be carried out in cooperation with the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights and other international organisations. A worrying trend in recent years has been that serious and professional election observation has been under attack. The challenge of elections is also the rise in false media and fake news, the emergence of attempts to influence elections and in many countries, for example, the electoral or assembly freedom laws, which limit candidates' access to equal treatment. I had the opportunity to participate in the observation mission for the early parliamentary elections in Ukraine in July in the city of Odessa. The Special Coordinator of the Election Observation Mission in Kiev was Emeritus President Kanerva of the General Assembly. Participation in election observation is a good example of how a representative can participate in the proceedings of the General Assembly in a concrete and operational manner and thereby promote democratic practices. I believe and hope that the OSCE's Finnish delegation will also invest in election observation during this parliamentary term. I will take a few practical examples of monitoring in Ukraine, which took place in July: Most of the OSCE people are stationed in Kiev, but our Finnish-English-Serbian task force travelled to Odessa, which is historically well-known for its lax activities. A few observers also made it to Harkova and Mariupoli. Election observation was not a vacation, but, for example, on the last day we slept for maybe three quarters. The Western groups won the election, and President Zelensky's party, who took part in the parliamentary elections for the first time, became the largest party. Together with British John Whittingdale and Serbian Dimitrije Todoric, we blamed not only school facilities, but also, among other things, a closed restaurant and a former oil refinery, for no club facilities. There were plenty of polling stations, but some of them were located in quite unusual areas. In addition to the plans of the long-term observers, we took two unplanned surprise attacks on the Odessa suburbs on our own initiative. The intention was to act partially unforeseeable. In addition to the driver, we also had a local interpreter. Our group in Odessa was surprised by the firmness of the action in most of the polling stations. There were a few anomalies, but they were not terribly relevant. The Russian-minded groups have expressed their dissatisfaction with the actual outcome. The party groups were not responsible for the actual delivery. The delivery was carried out by 18 election officials, who were monitored by the parties and the press at each polling station. A comprehensive door-to-door survey was conducted outside. At each polling station a police guard was called, usually two or three, but in one place there were five because of an area classified as dangerous. As a rule, the doors and windows at the polling stations were sealed with the joint signatures of all 18 officials. All those who came to the polling stations were registered immediately, including us observers. The box of polling stations was not wood like in Finland, but transparent. It was sealed with bundle ties, blocks and also a document with the signatures of all 18 officials. This was followed by party groups, the press and any observer of the Central Electoral Commission or non-governmental organisation. Each box also had a separate check flag. All voters were required to have an appropriate identity card. The verification and marking were carried out by double accounting. The official signed two tickets together with the voter, which were left to be followed by a check-in ticket. When the election apartment was shut down, the police were stationed outside on patrol. Unfortunately, our car drivers did not dare to wait in a lax area for their own safety, and then we had to alert him there in the morning when we were ready to leave. During the count of votes, there was no entry or exit. There was also no phone call, and there was no ventilation. The sealing of blank ballots was allowed only by the chairman. All the other election officials were watching his movements. The process took about half an hour, and it took almost seven hours to count the whole vote. Only the President was entitled to touch the ballots when they were taken out of the voting boxes. In the calculation, each vote was read aloud by the chairman. The officials immediately re-examined and recounted each voice. The chairman also counted all the tickets by hand. In addition, the result was videotaped. This would make it very difficult to change it afterwards. After the delivery, the voting forms and the result of the calculation were taken out of the police guard. I cannot open all the details, but in general I can say that the voting process itself and the organisation of the elections are working remarkably well. In many respects, the electoral system has been developed so far in recent years that our country's system seems to have been lagging behind. Even further behind is Sweden, where even electoral secrecy is at least questionable. When we get to know more than one country's election deliveries, we can certainly discuss together whether our own system should be developed. Mr President! Finally, the cooperation between the Nordic and Baltic delegations, namely NB8, has traditionally been intense. These meetings have discussed the issues and human rights elections under discussion and have heard expert reports on current issues. The report gives a good picture of last year's activities, but at the same time it has to be said that the international community is still struggling around the same problems. After the referral, the report will continue its journey to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u71	Mr President! These situations, in which we deal with the annual reports of these international parliamentary bodies in this Chamber, are actually the only moments when the work that Members of Parliament are doing in those international cooperation bodies opens up to some extent. In that sense, it is worth giving this debate its own dignity, and it is great that Mr Junnila presented the annual report last year. Of course, Mrs Paloniemi, who has held the chair last year, could not do this because her parliamentary career ended in the last elections. This is a good time to think about the OSCE, the nature of the OSCE as one of these international European organisations — more of them. In fact, the OSCE was born in this city, Helsinki, at the time of the 1975 Cold War in Europe, when there was a consensus among the countries of Europe to find a dialogue rather than a confrontation, and that is what the Etyk process has been all in all. It can be said that the OSCE process had to make Europe's borders permanent. The fact that it created this space for dialogue in Europe was likely to lead to a radical change of borders in Europe at the end of the 1980s and the early 1990s. It meant the birth of the OSCE itself. It was then that the concept was created by which the OSCE conference continues now, that is, a broad concept of security. This broad concept of security includes a number of key elements, of which, of course, the main factor is that security in Europe is common, it is indivisible and security is not sought at the expense of the other side. The very fact that we must work together to find solutions to these problems, and these confidence-building measures, which have played a crucial role as an OSCE organisation, have been very important. This also helped the disarmament process in the 1990s very, very strongly and made the system as a whole transparent. The second dimension of the broad concept of security was of course related to the fact that it is not just a question of military threats, which are seen as serious security challenges, but, in a broad sense, of all external security risks, including the climate crisis that has been talked about today. Overall, environmental problems also concern safety and preparedness in their own way and in their nature. In other words, a broader understanding of this broad concept of security than the prevention of military conflicts alone was very important. The third and perhaps most revolutionary way of thinking in this broad concept of security is that it is not just a matter of national security but of human security. It is not just a question of states seeking security in relation to other countries, of integrity in relation to other countries, but it is precisely human security that is the starting point for making human rights a very central issue in the European security debate. In this respect, of course, the second key European body of cooperation, the Council of Europe, is perhaps playing an even more important role, because it is precisely the European system of cooperation which creates standards for human rights. This dialogue between the two organisations is, of course, permanent in many respects. As Mr Junnila has said here, the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly is primarily a debater. It is a forum in which European Parliaments hold a joint debate on security policy. Of course, it is very important to recognise here, on the OSCE side, that there is a broad understanding of Europe, that is, the Northern Hemisphere as a whole, because the OSCE, like the Arctic Council, is rare in the sense that the United States and Canada are also involved, that is to say, North America, Europe as a whole. From Vladivostok to Vancouver, the OSCE's range of operations extends, and that is the very important essence of the fact that the major powers in the Northern Hemisphere are engaged in a joint debate in this forum, which is unique and also provides a forum for Finnish parliamentarians to interact with their colleagues. But it is worth noting that this role of the OSCE as a parliamentary forum is only one dimension. It makes resolutions, there is arm wrestling — we heard that even a lively debate, if necessary — but it also has operational activities. And these operational aspects may have been more valuable roles than we even understand and perhaps received less public attention. On at least two points, the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly is carrying out strong operational work: One dimension is the so-called Special Representatives. We have heard that Mr Kanerva is the special representative of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly for mediation, and he has had a lot of discussions, both at national level and parliamentary debates, from the point of view of mediation and has been in the process of improving the security situation. In my earlier term, I myself have been the EUSR for the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, firstly in Moldova, helping the Moldovan crisis, opening up the background to this frozen conflict, opening up the parliamentary debate, and then later as the Special Representative for Central Asia, when the whole conflict area in Central Asia, the potential conflict area with conflict, including human rights violations, has been central to the substance of this special representative role and to the very heart of its involvement. This is less common in the Finnish debate. We do not recognise the work that these special representatives are doing, but it is also of great international importance, on which the governments of the countries also rely a great deal. In this respect, Members of Parliament will be able to have a role that may not come in normal parliamentary work, which will then be offered here through the Parliamentary Assembly. Another very important operational aspect to which Mr Junnila referred in his own speech relates to election observation. The OSCE Parliamentary Assembly conducts international election observation whenever action is taken in this OSCE area. ODIHR is the special institution within the OSCE which is responsible for election observation. ODIHR is the leading international election observation institution. In fact, as far as the rest of the world is concerned, in Latin America, within the framework of the African Union in Africa, in the region of ASEAN in South-East Asia, efforts have been made to build international election observation, ODIHR has played a central role, a consultative role in relation to this development of election observation organisations. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-04-ps-26.u72	Mr President! I would like to pick up on that point briefly. For a long time, Mr Kiljunen made a good point of practical action, and that is how he said it. Climate change, however, was also mentioned as such a security threat, which it certainly also is, but such an image of the OSCE's internal debate remained that, when these other conflicts and problems are so extensive, then this forum would be quite horribly reluctant to include climate change and the problems it brings, because these other security policy problems are so extensive and commit a lot of resources. That is why, at least in my own experience, there is a feeling in the OSCE that the place of climate change debate is essentially in forums other than those of the OSCE itself. - Thank you.
