ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Legal Committee must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u2	Mr President, värderade talman! In many ways, this proposal from the government that is now before us is important. It is important because it strengthens the enforcement of consumer rights. It is important because it protects the operating conditions of honest businesses and promotes healthy competition. The legislative proposals are mainly based on the EU Regulation, which will apply from 17 January 2020. The same date would be the date of entry into force of the laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u3	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Henriksson, for the clear presentation of the bill. In my opinion, the Minister put the bill in a good way. The proposal therefore seeks to safeguard the rights of the consumer and to promote the work and activities of honest, hard-working entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u6	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. There's a lot of good in the law. As pointed out in the Minister's presentation, the powers of consumer authorities will be increased and the legal protection of consumers will be improved, but this is also very good for the majority of entrepreneurs, as the Minister has suggested, because they carefully comply with consumer regulations and it is important that a healthy market is maintained. In addition, the legislation ensures, in the interests of legal certainty for traders, that the consultation procedure and the appeal procedure are appropriate. The activities of the Consumer Ombudsman will also be enhanced so that a trader who is not satisfied with the prohibition decision should take the matter to market law. Today, it goes away with a mere claim, which, of course, easily exposes you to situations, that you will then have to deal with it... either for the purpose of stalling or otherwise, and it immediately wears off. Of course, it is worth noting that this is still on the basis that the consumer ombudsman should primarily negotiate the matter, not go immediately, but, of course, first of all contact will be made according to good practice. There are a few points that I would like to raise in particular. On page 62, the government's proposal has noted this important point, namely the relationship with criminal proceedings, i.e. the ban on double criminality, which means that, when there is the possibility of imposing this penalty charge, it must not be imposed on the person suspected of the same offence, for example in the pre-trial investigation, and there is, therefore, an examination of the same offence, or on a case which has progressed before the Court. Furthermore, the important thing is this fake purchase or trial purchase, which is here in Article 10 of the Act and which I would actually like to ask the Minister about. It is stated here that the competent authority has the right to make trials in order to carry out supervisory tasks and even to use fake identity, but then law 3. This proposal states that the competent authority has the right to withdraw the contract referred to in paragraph 1 — i.e. I understand that something has been ordered, and then it states that it will be withdrawn. Let me get this straight. It is stated that ‘whereunreasonable from the point of view of the trader’,andthatthere is a real Perhaps the Minister will be able to clarify this, hopefully, I could not quite open it myself. Indeed, this will also come before us in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and I promise there will be careful and good treatment insofar as this is within the remit of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, but I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u7	Mr President! Thank you, Minister. Every matter, every piece of legislation that protects and protects the consumer better than it does today, is always welcome and will certainly be welcomed with joy in this plenary session today. However, I would like to raise a few points, perhaps to the point where I personally still find some confusion about the fact that the penalty payment is now a new element in the repertoire aimed at curbing and safeguarding the position of the consumer, but also at preventing unfair competition. We have penalty payment systems in this country, for example for posted workers, and we have seen that the penalty payment is inoperable and, in fact, unable to secure the status of posted workers sufficiently well, but operators who engage in unfair competition and keep workers in a position of subordination in this country continue to act very vigorously, because they are still so low. I would like to ask the Minister whether the amount of the penalty has now been considered so that it also serves as a deterrent, so that international actors can be contacted. Surely the penalty payment is more reasonable than going to a Chinese company, for example, for a trial and for possible violations. It is certainly an expensive path for the state and consumer authorities, so perhaps in that sense a sufficient amount of penalty would be a much more effective measure. This would be the right measure, especially for small operators. Has the Ministry considered how the impact of this law will be monitored in the future in the preparation of the law? I do not want to criticise the Competition and Consumer Protection Agency or the Consumer Ombudsman, but when we know, for example, how much has been done to reduce it, of course, during the previous government and so that in this Parliament the interest rates have been addressed during the last two parliamentary years, but the authorities have continued to carry out rapid investigations — even now there are studies going on, how can we curb this curse, which in Finland is about the existence of quick-leases — so how can this law make it possible for the competition and consumer authority, the consumer ombudsman, to take more vigorous action so that these matters in this sector, and where does this law now presented by the Minister, be further promoted? The improvement of the position of entrepreneurs in this area deserves an excellent added value, as Mr Meri pointed out in his own speech. It is right that we have companies in this country in a level playing field, and that is one part of further improving the position of consumers and honest entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u8	Mr President! The Internet offers an almost limitless world of buying, but hardly any kind of protection, but protection depends almost exclusively on the skills of the user. This presentation now brings a very broad spectrum of amendments to the laws. The proposal states: ‘The proposal proposes that a number of powers be conferred on the consumer protection authorities. In addition, the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection, the Law on Market Law on Trials, the Law on Financial Supervision, the Law on Fine Enforcement, the Law on Court Fees, the Consumer Protection Act, the Housing Trade Act, the Law on Recovery of Claims, the Payment Services Act, the Law on Interest Rates, the Act on Travel Combinations, the Act on Services, the Act on Electronic Communications Services, the Act on Transport Services and the Act on Payment Institutions would be amended.’ Minister Henriksson, the proposal is quite comprehensive and welcome, and the basic idea of the proposal is good: protecting consumer protection. This proposal also proposes a penalty payment, as it were, as a known new measure, which will certainly give rise to such a mental fear that it will also be responsible for doing so. The aim of the regulation has been to introduce modern, effective and effective consumer protection cooperation mechanisms, and now that this goes to the committees, it is hoped that the procedure will be so careful that, in a way, this is also so clear and simple that the consumer can understand that his rights are growing significantly here. It is often the case that, when we legislators finally complete that law, it remains quite distant for the consumer. But in this case, the basic message and then the mechanisms that apply it should be clear that the relevant authorities and those concerned should now have clear instructions on how to use it — this should be prepared. But once again, thank you for bringing this performance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u9	Mr President! I would also like to ask the Minister about these speed levers and in particular the class action. This week, Consumer Ombudsman Katri Väänänen announced whether yesterday he was considering bringing a class action for two excessively expensive consumer credit. Now we are looking for these particular borrowers, and the reason and opportunity for this class action is to register a sufficient number of consumers, i.e. people who have taken these credits. And then the consumer ombudsman also tells us that such a class action has never, apparently, been brought before. I would like to ask you, Minister, whether this proposal takes up these class actions in some way now and, in a way, makes it easier to move things forward and, of course, that ordinary consumers and citizens should also dare to tell you when they have experienced something that would make it necessary to bring an action or to stand up to complain — how does this bill react to this issue? This is a very important issue. The consumer ombudsman is for the consumer, and necessarily people do not always know that such a person exists, but there would be a need to make contact and also to make complaints. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u10	Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister how, for example, when a Chinese online store operates incorrectly, it is possible to impose such a penalty charge and, in a way, to ensure that the penalty fee is then recovered.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u11	Mr President! When Finland joined the EU at the time, one of the major concerns we had was what happens with national consumer protection legislation and not to weaken Finnish consumer protection. In particular, it was in this situation that we wanted to avoid becoming the type of EU-wide maximum regulation that would have, in a way, dwindled our good level of consumer protection down. Well, fortunately, we are now in a situation where more of this minimum regulation is being sought at EU level, in other words that we want to raise certain levels of regulation, particularly in relation to online commerce and cross-border regulation, and it is, of course, absolutely essential that it also contains common, cross-border regulation. There is transport going on, and in this way we certainly want to raise the level of consumer protection in many countries and then also to tackle these cross-border situations. I have to say that there are very good openings in this proposal, but for a few people we have to consider whether these are really capable of tackling these problems. That is where Mr Laakso raised these Internet shops, for example, if it is to be considered whether this control could be extended to a third country. Knowing that today, for example, the distribution of criminal material from a server located in a third country may be extremely difficult to block, and if misleading marketing is used or perhaps completely fooled with these products, can these sites really be closed in such commercial situations? That is what I would have asked the Minister. The second point has also been raised here, that is to say, is there a better way of dealing with this issue by means of these legislative changes? I think we had a debate last spring that even an attempt had been made to land a model in Finland — and perhaps it has been successful — where relatives of the person who lost their credit information might be held responsible for these prompts if their signatures had been obtained on these papers or on those Internet forms. This was indeed shocking that, if a person is already in financial discipline, his immediate circle might then also be faced with these problems. It is indeed a good thing that there is also the possibility of bringing these matters to market law, from domestic needs — an improvement in domestic consumer protection, a departure from national needs — and then also these penalties. But I would like to ask the Minister an answer to these two questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u12	The Minister will be given the floor after the next two speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u13	Mr President! It is wonderful that this government is once again at the hands of a small person and an honest entrepreneur. It is not easy to contaminate fraud because they are moving more and more on the Internet. And, as Mr Essayah pointed out above, many activities are carried out from abroad, and I think that even in this case the claws do not really hold that side. It is therefore important that, in international fora, just as we have done, we try to reach an agreement on both grooming and such dishonest attempts so that, for example, no attempt at gambling from Malta will be made in the future by means of Finnish forces, as has been the case today. But my real question actually relates to the changes in food law in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, which are also linked to food fraud. Are they linked to this legislation, consumer protection? Have these matters been coordinated? There are issues that we are already dealing with, but the overall reform of food law will come later. Food fraud is very large in scale in the world, and for us too, residues of plant protection products flow partly through this, and origin labelling has sometimes been deliberately obscured or simplified. For example, a large number of strawberry sellers are caught in the market every year selling foreign strawberry. This type of thing, which in part is not so serious for a person but which, from the point of view of the big picture, are really important and trampling on the ordinary entrepreneur. Mr Laukkanen here listed a large number, but there was no link to food law at this point. How do you do that?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u14	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Det är bra att vi får en uppdaterad lagstiftning som tar fasta på problem som uppstår just precis i dag. Jag har ändå tre frågor till ministern.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u15	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Thank you for the very good and relevant questions. Maybe I'll start with where Mr. Bergqvist left off. It is quite clear that this reform is not now affecting consumer protection legislation itself. That same consumer protection legislation still exists, which therefore affects our companies. Now we are dealing with the tools available to the consumer authorities. And there will now be an improvement in the position of consumers, which means that honest entrepreneurs will benefit from this too, and we have many of them in Finland. I will also try to go into more detail on these issues, here I am. Representative Meri asked about this fake purchase: It is a new way now with this new law also for the Consumer Ombudsman to act when he is afraid or it is expected that something will happen in a company that should not be allowed to happen there, and then such a fake purchase can be practiced. I assume that there is also a budget for this in the consumer authorities' own budget. I am sure this is something that you should also look into in more detail in the Committee on Legal Affairs. However, this law also derives from the fact that the competent authority cannot in any way, for example, incite a trader to commit an unlawful act when making a trial purchase, and therefore the purpose of this law is not that the trader should be the payer if such a fake purchase is made. And if he acts honestly, then he must also receive his payment for the goods, that is where I am going. Then, Mrs Myllykoski, the amount of this penalty payment, and its preventive effect: we have assumed that this payment will also have a preventive effect. And this amount of penalty payment, also in response to Mr Bergqvist, would be based on an overall assessment and should be determined taking into account, among other things, the extent and gravity of the infringement. In other words, it does not come from the fact that every time an infringement occurs, the amount of the charge is 4% of turnover, but first negotiated, and then, if no progress is made in the negotiations, then the consumer ombudsman has this opportunity, but 4% of turnover is still so large that few entrepreneurs want to pay such a sum. The Omnibus Directive, which will also be coming to a conclusion in the European Council of Ministers in the coming months, will require at least a ceiling on this amount of penalty, and therefore it will be up to 4% here. Then, of course, this will be followed. And now that we give the consumer ombudsman and the authorities more tools, yes, it is intended that it will also contribute to strengthening consumer protection. Then there was this class action, Mr Juvonen asked about it. This proposal does not take a position on a class action. We already have a class action, and as far as this case in Helsingin Sanomat is concerned, of course, I cannot comment on a specific matter, but in general terms I can say that the Consumer Ombudsman has the possibility, under the block action law, to initiate a group action and speak as a party to it. So that's the chance. Of course, we have not had such a situation in this country before, and that is why there are no such judgments. Then these Chinese companies. The starting point here is that there is a high threshold for action on websites and domain names. Websites could be removed mainly if fraud were involved. Of course, we will have to go through the way that Chinese company markets itself to Finland. If it does so in Finnish, try to sell goods to Finns here, then the marketing will be directed at this, and this will also provide opportunities to intervene in it. But this is quite a complex issue, and it is also a question of how to do it in other countries, and that is precisely why cooperation within the EU is also important in these cases. In other words, it is always assessed on a case-by-case basis, which is the best technical way to intervene in each case, but if you try to sell goods directly here in Finnish, the Consumer Protection Act will also protect you against such violations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u16	Mr President! Of the so-called penalty payment of 4%, I would still have liked to ask. It is to be assumed that we are unable to prevent the existence of so-called producer companies which then, perhaps on a product-by-product basis, are chopping up the marketing, when the turnover of these small companies in the chain is rather small compared to what is behind it. Will we have some instruments for this, or should we have thought again about imposing a direct ban immediately until the negotiations have been concluded? In other words, the action would be suspended and then negotiated how to proceed, for it can and certainly often be that there is an issue of incomprehension and ignorance, so that action can then be corrected. To Mr Essayah's question, which he asked: The Minister was not yet able to comment on these speed levers. If I understood correctly, a product was placed on the market which made it possible for a consumer with a default mark to be given a quick pass despite the fact that the company granting it a quick payment takes financial responsibility. I would have asked you a little bit that this is not the kind of thing that has come ashore, that we should go to the so-called close relatives and pick up those quick-wielding items, because that means that he is in one way or another guaranteeing that quick-width. So if you could get some sort of explanation from the minister for this belt.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u17	Mr President! The government's proposal is certainly very welcome for the many people who have taken speed levers, who are beginning to see the hope that once they have been dragged for years, they will be able to obtain justice through companies starting to improve their policies at this risk that the penalty may amount to 4% of turnover if they act fraudulently. It does not, however, remove this problem for a long time to come, I do not believe it, but it means a number of other measures from the point of view of the consumer representative and also from the legal point of view. As I am sure the Minister knows, the Consumer Ombudsman will be holding a press conference tomorrow to bring in a class action and to bring those people, thousands of people who would like to have a class action brought there. After all, according to the information I have received, when yesterday I asked him about it, tomorrow he will publish an online form to which everyone can register and fill it in. This applies specifically to debtors with a credit liability of less than EUR 5000 and who feel that the interest rate has been excessive. After all, this history is so long since 2013 — those who have sat here, so remember — in Parliament the law provides that companies may take interest up to a maximum of 50 % if the amount of credit is less than EUR 2000. But as soon as the law was new, companies came up with the idea that they started to grant over EUR 2000 credits, which allowed them to continue to collect tens and even hundreds of percent of the annual interest rates from consumers. Now, in September 2019, I understand that this law has been changed in some way so that the interest rate was reduced to 20% of these more than EUR 2000 credits again. But the question is: [Interjection] The second point is how these consumers will cope with the fact that when they first pay, they will reduce their credit, so, I understand, companies will then be able to apply for interest on interest when they charge these costs. How can this be addressed?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u18	Mr President! In this whole case, a little bit of a hunch seems to me to be something of a problem, because now, for example, if we set up a company, the idea being that it only works by cheating, we all know that today, on the Internet, information goes so fast that before any of the authorities can react here, the deal is already stopped because the customers know it. Now, on the other hand, if these penalties and these types of cases are done only to those companies which, as a rule, are doing the right thing, then virtually the main reasons are generally that there has been a misunderstanding or something similar, and then it is not really relevant even to create such penalties. Not to mention, of course, the case in this situation, as the Minister himself said just now, twisting and curving what was read between the lines, that the Chinese are not in any way involved in these penalties. Although it is a good idea for honest businesses to benefit from this, can there now be little problem in this final round of games when we add these requirements that it virtually complicates the operation of these well-functioning companies and their risks to these penalties, since they are not collected from third country companies?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u19	I will give the floor to Mr Henriksson, and then, as previously agreed, this debate will be suspended and resumed at the end of the deliberations on other matters in the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u20	Mr President! As far as these speed bumps are concerned, the situation is that this 20% ceiling, which has come into force this autumn, is now being followed up on how it will work in practice. And one good thing that is also happening and that is also on the agenda of this new government is that the supervision of quick credit companies will also be transferred to the Financial Supervisory Authority. I personally expect it to intensify this control in all its aspects and to be useful to this whole field, to work better than it is today, of course, so that in every way we must avoid people being over-indebted and people being misled. That is why the government has also stated that, if shortcomings are still identified in this regulation, measures will be taken to improve regulation and tighten the regulation of the marketing of consumer credit, which is also in the toolbox, if necessary. Then, with regard to this question, which was raised by Mr Laakso and others, who said that what is going to happen to companies: the situation is that companies that operate in accordance with the law will benefit from this law. Consumers will benefit from this. This will strengthen consumer protection throughout the EU, and that is a good thing. And how many Finns today, when they buy goods online, buy them from a Finnish company? How many buy it from a company that has a place of business in Europe or in the neighbouring countries? I believe that these are quite large amounts of us who, however, buy it here in the European neighbourhood. Of course it is also the case that the consumer himself must be awake when shopping online, and wonder whether this is safe and whether this company is such an operator that you can trust, and so on. But this legislation strengthens the position of the consumer. The purpose of this legislation is to strengthen the situation of the consumer today, but also to benefit honest businesses. All those companies that operate according to the rules of the game will benefit from this too, and I am absolutely sure of that. Then, among other things, Mr Kalmari asked about this food legislation. I have no precise information about it, but if you are trying to sell strawberries from other countries as Finns, it is certainly not such a case where a payment comes in immediately, but at least that discussion between the consumer representative and this entrepreneur and the negotiation that this should not be done will also become a reality within the framework of this legislation. However, as far as the attempt to sell food as another food is concerned, I do not know how that debate has been involved in this project. Above all, it is important that we in the European Union now want to strengthen the role of consumers, and that is also the reason why this regulation is now timely, and this is an example of the benefits that we Finns have for being an EU Member State. This is also a concrete example of Europe and the EU becoming good legislation. So, on the whole, Mr President, this will improve the position of the consumer, the position of honest entrepreneurs will improve, and this is a good reform which the government is now pursuing and which is also important, of course, for the Committee on Legal Affairs to consult experts and to look into these details. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u21	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u22	Mr President! This law is linked to the EU Control Regulation and ensures that animals and goods imported from third countries meet the requirements of EU law. This is specifically about human, animal and plant health, animal welfare and environmental protection. Of course, it is important that they are transposed into their own legislation. We know a great deal of examples of how, for example, on the pet side, we can import into Finland through puppy production and unethical animal production, and we need to be able to deal with this control. Of course it has been done, but this legislation gives it new elements, including through penalties. Let us not only talk about animal diseases — which, of course, are very challenging and difficult for our productive animals, and whose access to Finland must be prevented in every way, it is very important — but also about plant health, that we ensure that we do not have human action, so to speak extra time, these animal diseases, plant diseases and so on. This is where the Finnish Food Authority and Customs have assessed how many of these would be when the penalty payment comes — about 500 copies of what has been calculated — and here, of course, there would also be some sort of income effect that we can then take advantage of. This has, of course, been assessed by mirroring the acts concerning this penalty payment, the omissions on this current scale, in the current import controls. All in all, we support the proposal which is being taken forward and which we will then be discussing in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u23	Mr President! Goods, people and animals are moving rapidly across the European Union from one country to another. This is in principle a good thing, but it also carries a lot of risks. The proposal proposes to introduce a new law on the control of imports of animals and certain goods, which would complement the Regulation on official controls of the European Union in the context of the control of compliance with the rules applicable to imports of animals and certain goods. The law would cover the risks to human and animal health arising from food safety and food quality and health, GMOs, feed and feed safety, animal health, animal by-products and derived products, animal welfare and protected origin requirements, protected geographical indications and official controls on the use and labelling of traditional products. We could talk about this all night. Control in Finland has worked very well so far, but in this context I would like to highlight problems relating to the transport of animals from one country to another. Hundreds of thousands of dogs are traded annually in the EU, and a billion-dollar amount of money is available each year in the breeding and trading of dogs and cats. There are significant differences between Member States in national legislation in relation to pet trade. There are major differences in the registers of breeders and traders, as well as in the registration and labelling databases of animals. Over the last decade, the illegal pet trade, including within the EU, has grown enormously. There are no precise figures on the illegal pet trade, but it is clear that illegal puppy production is a billion-dollar business and a significant source of income for organised crime. The volume of properly documented cross-border trade in animals is considerably lower than the actual movement of pets between Member States. There are also some problems with the transport of animals in the livestock sector. We will remember those documents on television when we saw that, for example, cows that depend on one leg — they are still alive — have been transported and moved from one place to another. Illegal trade in animals is the third most profitable organised crime in the EU; only drug and arms trafficking takes precedence. The EU pet passport system should be developed and monitored more effectively. In the context of illegal trade, pets are kept under terrible conditions and are transported over long distances. For example, there are the great halls of thousands of mother dogs in Europe. In harsh conditions, mother dogs are constantly puppyed, and unfortunately some of these puppies even come here to Finland, the West Harbour: the trunk is open, and the buyers then go out to buy cheap puppies up to the age of a couple of weeks. As a result, the risk of communicable diseases is also increasing, causing significant health risks across borders for animals and even people. We must put an end to this inhuman, systematic cruelty to animals. Finland will now also play a key role during its Presidency in raising this issue as well. Puppy factory is a growing form of crime. The Finns have strongly expressed their concerns and also measures to curb puppy production. There is also another point: For example, in Finland, when it comes to meat sales, pigs have pigtails all their lives, whereas in many countries of the EU this is not the case, but they are already being removed from the pig in the early stages, and it is probably painful. Chickens are also allowed to wear their beaks in Finland, while chicken beaks are cut off, tip off, this happens a lot in other EU countries. Sweden and Finland are pioneers, they do not do this and still play with the same market rules. It's wrong. We also have a few meps which, for example, have put a great deal of emphasis on improving the status of pets, but there has now been no progress in many, many years. So these problems need to be addressed and improved. Animals are valuable, and we probably want to, at least in Finland and probably in other countries, treat animals well, but there are problems, and they need to be solved — especially this criminal form of puppy factory, it is shockingly large in Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u24	Mr President! The representative, Elomaa, who I know has also been rehabilitated as chairman of the animal welfare team, raised good and important issues. Of course, Finnish legislation, unfortunately, cannot prevent Finland from coming to Finland with meat produced by production methods which are prohibited for us Finns and for which it is self-evident that this will not happen. That is why chickens are pruned, or pig saffrons are cut off, so that the living conditions are not so good and stressed out that the pigs are really aggressive toward them. So there is no tail bite when there is no tail, or there is no cannibalism if the beaks are cut. And think, this is happening in the majority of the countries of the world, only in the Nordic countries Finland and Sweden do not do so. But instead, we can compete in public food procurement in such a way that such ethical aspects are taken into account, and I appeal to all of you who are present: make procurement decisions in your own housekeepers or associations of municipalities that require ethical production methods. But then to this actual legislative proposal: It is, in fact, a bit the same as the previous legislative proposal and what changes in food law we have there in committee. The representatives Savola and Elomaa presented this very well, and we will probably be hearing from many sides. It is not only about importing animals, but also about importing food from third countries. If we should have such a short basic course on food imports, then what is within Europe from third countries, from non-European countries, is then really nothing more than a risk-based check at customs, and then plant products move again so that they will be checked in the future by the environmental health services of the municipalities. It is now important that, knowing that these players do not comply with the rules of the game, they were well described in the previous speech, penalties would give rise to such a deterrent that it would not be worth doing so, the risks would be so much greater and the fear of being caught would lead to a failure to do so. I am therefore interested in following the debate and expert consultations on, for example, this level of penalty payment. Is it such that the deterrent effect is sufficient? What is important is that the authorities know who clearly belongs to and that the resources are sufficient when talking about such international imports. And one thing I would like to see affected by this group of parliamentarians is attitudes. Quite a few mentally somehow accept this kind of trunk for dog purchase, if you go here to animal side, and I think it is absolutely wrong. It increases the risk of animal diseases, it increases illegality, it simply does not fit the welfare of Finnish animals. We must not accept this course of action morally.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u25	Mr President! As a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, it is therefore necessary to say a few words and to thank the above representatives for their good contributions. It is right that, in this context, we should be able to expand the debate a little bit and speak in general and, in particular, to raise our pet trade at the moment in the country of origin – unfortunately, our puppy production is very common and that we are being brought across the border – but also within the EU. Well, this is not going to address it, but this is an extremely important issue for disease safety. It may be that we have not yet encountered quite all the horror that could be brought, for example, from the point of view of processed livestock if we are not awake in it. Fortunately for us, our legislation will ensure that we do not have quite such a herd of meat here to bring or allow what is being used for human consumption behind the big water. In that sense, even at EU level, we have already taken a reasonably good position here on the way animals are reared with hormones and so on. We are also very critical of GM feeds, and I hope that line will be maintained in this context. But how these penalties work in the business of criminal organisations, I do not think that this will get us through. Drugs are also being brought here, not always in barrels, as we have seen in this trial process, but generally very much in the smuggling of animals, trafficking is linked to the fact that they are brought and transmitted here by individual people, so that this penalty payment will hardly have such a hopeful effect or effect that we can get to grips with the fact that this kind of illegal animal trafficking could be curbed from outside the EU countries. We need to have another instrument to prevent this. Hopefully, in future, we will be working with Customs in particular so that we can begin to assess on a risk-based basis that when someone is caught in such a trade, border crossing and control will work — as has been the case until now, of course, when a neighbour arrives, if illegal imports have taken place, the authorities have had more sensitive alarm clocks. We need something sharp in this illegal trade in animals that will enable us to curb the smuggling of animals brought here by individual people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u26	Mr President! Good speeches have been made, especially by Elomaa, the long-standing chairman of the Finnish Animal Protection Club. I have been with him in this club for a long time, and we have tried to influence animal welfare in many ways, both nationally and internationally, including keeping a certain sense. Would there have been a representative, Mr Kalmari, who said in his speech that we cannot prevent, for example, certain types of meat from being imported into Finland. This is the kind of thing that would actually be the solution if we wanted to use it in the European Union. The Finns have presented such things as climate customs, which could be imposed in the EU on third countries. I myself wonder that this could also be added to the welfare of these animals in third countries. The idea has been that what kind of energy has been produced, whether coal production is, and environmental friendliness and child labour, and it could also be one of the criteria for treating animals in that country, and if it does not meet these common EU standards, then it would not be necessary to import cheap meat into the EU. This is the field we should be able to influence. This is very good and this applies to imports from third countries, but I also think that we should be able to do more here within the EU, and I am actually appealing to the government parties, because you now have the greatest power when Finland holds the presidency of the EU, but I have not heard anything about animal protection. I am thinking, for example, of the Spanish bullfights, the torture of hunting dogs in southern Europe when they hunt badly — there is no peaceful killing of the dog, but there are old rituals in which dogs are tortured — and things like this, which are usually not so hard to talk about and take up in international tables, and it should definitely be done. Similarly, I am thinking about transport and keeping animals in general. I cannot understand that we do not yet have legislation in Finland that, for example, in relation to the ban on keeping animals, there is an obligation that every seller should check that the buyer does not have a ban on keeping animals. I've had dogs all my life, and I've had horses, and no one's ever asked me if I had a ban on animals. I've been thinking that the salesman might think a little bit that in the five minutes he probably doesn't always see what kind of person I am, and that would be a pretty easy thing. I was just thinking about these animal transports that there could also be some sort of explanation in the EU that transport companies are not allowed to operate here if, for example, they have drivers who have been convicted of animal abuse in some kind of conviction. We should also look at who there regularly moves with animals, because if you treat animals hard once, you often do it another time. It reminds me of these products from third countries, such as the bile of bears, and they have a vain purpose in improving some type of power, if I have understood correctly. Then, in this debate, I would like to make a distinction between the puppy factory, which is a very serious matter which I would like to end, and the fact that the public debate has now also come to the conclusion that when it is legally and properly imported, for example, a receptionary, it has started to be disapproved on some Facebook sites. I have two dogs from Romania. They have come through the Dogs Association, and there is a very relevant operator on the ground, and there are several local veterinarians who have been through those dogs, and they are really healthy, they have passports and medical certificates and they have also been checked in Finland. Now has begun to turn that talk so that even these things should no longer be made, that is, these animals should not be brought. I wonder why I could not bring a healthy dog into my home, the cost of which I will pay myself, and when I am sure I will find out that it is all right. In the past, I have owned animals, dogs, bought from kennels — in fact, they were still breed dogs — and they were more ill. Then we should also keep the path open so that we do not go to the point of not importing anything and not doing charity with our own money. This has now gone a little far from this subject, but animal welfare is such a broad issue, and we rarely talk about it, given that hundreds of thousands of people in Finland have pets, the animal health effects on people have been studied and they are the daily lives of many of us, and yet we talk too little about their welfare.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u27	Mr President! As has been raised here today, dogs are still acquired in Finland from so-called puppy factories, although there has been an active effort to increase information about the buyer's obligations in recent years. Indeed, the goal of puppy production is to make as much money as possible on animals by selling them without taking care of animal welfare and health. Puppies have been caught in Finland, but puppies are still living in vague conditions and unfortunately there are buyers for them. Animal care sites in Finland are used for large-scale distribution of puppies imported from abroad, and this also involves puppy production abroad, as well as on the Finnish side. In May, we read the news about an appalling case in which the seller in Finland had sold puppies that the terminal runner had brought from Estonia and Latvia to Finland over the years. Dogs did not have official health certificates when imported. In Finland, dogs were kept under dirty and health-threatening conditions and under poor air quality conditions prior to delivery. This type of activity must definitely be brought to an end in Finland. The forthcoming amendment to the Animal Protection Act envisages the introduction of a mandatory identification mark for dogs, and this is an important step in this work. In addition, import controls are now increasing, and today we are starting to deal with this EU control regulation on animal import controls. It is particularly good in this draft law that, in future, a penalty can be imposed on incorrect imports of pets and that shortcomings in the import of pet animals can be better addressed. I would also like to say that there has been a complaint here today about the fact that we are not able to directly influence animal welfare laws outside our borders, but I would like to say that in Finland we can, however, improve the conditions of our animals in Finland and improve animal welfare, because we also have to do so, while also demanding equal treatment from other countries, as is the case with the reform of the EU's agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u28	Mr President! From this extension of the legislation itself to this general debate on animal welfare, this is certainly one of the few things that we are discussing unanimously in this Chamber. As far as the taking and holding of pets is concerned, we can all make a difference. We should also have a very strong sound when the alarm clocks are filled with certain signals. For one thing, if a pet is being traded on the Internet for a ridiculously cheap price, it should already awaken that why this price is so low. When a pet is employed, each one of us can also see what the age of the pet is, what its condition is, and of course the certificates are also required. When a dog is purchased from a kennel, I at least, when I have acquired a dog for myself, have received all the necessary certificates, and these catering conditions can be consulted in advance. Especially if a dog is traded in a parking lot and not in the kennel itself, it is one of the reasons why the alarm bells should ring. I would also like to stress that we also need attitude education in homes. Animals aren't toys. We must also be able to raise our own children to what is done with animals. I saw these summer cats coming from the countryside, unfortunately from the summer cottage area every autumn. It's a miracle now if you can't make sense of this to people, that if a kitten is taken, then you have to be able to take care of it. We also have a responsibility to the nature around us, because the cat is a wild beast in nature, it kills rabbits, baby birds and so on, and that too needs to be addressed. Well, so much for these pets. For farm animals, I would just like to comment on the fact that we have good housing conditions in Finland. Just as Mr Elomaa well described, so we have these quality standards. For us, the food industry also demands it. If you look at Atria's quality standards, you think about Valio's quality standards as to what comes with the farm animals, they are top class, and they are required, they are monitored, and that is a good thing. Unfortunately, however, when problems with animal welfare have arisen in Finland, they have many times the ability of the producer, the welfare of the producer in the background. This is what we need to be able to deal with more strongly. This comes from the fact that profitability is in good agricultural condition. When you have something in your wallet that pays the bills, you usually do better. Also, the Intermediary Farmer project and other similar projects, where producers help each other, the producer organisation provides peer support, are extremely important to these farmers. I hope that during this parliamentary term we will achieve the improvement that farmers need. This also has a direct effect on the fact that we have animals in this country doing well.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u29	This proposal also covers the import of animals, and that is why I have allowed this debate on animal protection, but I do not deny it. The summer cats of Ähtar went a little too far away from this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u31	Mr President! Just a few more words about imported domestic animals: I think it is a very good thing what Mr Pitko raised there, that we have a register of dogs and a register of cats that are missing in such a puppy factory. Personally, I would like to see even more than what is being saved from Spain or Italy, even if a large number of dogs from the Helsinki Animal Protection Association for which they cannot have a home are being taken out and treated first by domestic dogs, even though they are cute from the street and the proper operators may be able to get the vaccinations in order. I would like to see the disease situation and the well-being of all Finnish dogs. Then there is the control of products of animal origin from third countries. Indeed, it is a practice for us — and I raised it a little bit in my speech — that, once these foods have been approved within Europe in a country, they are as if they have already been approved throughout Europe and then they may only be subject to some random tests. I think it is a little sad because it is known that in all countries this food control is not at the same level, and I dare to raise it from countries which, on a committee visit, have raised this chilling activity on fram, for example Romania. There is a very large-scale use of batches of food that would not actually be suitable for food and then, when processed forward, it is, as it were, disappearing. I think it would be a good idea for the consumer to be quite awake when buying products and monitoring their origin, especially now that the labelling of origin has been made more binding — although it would be desirable for the processing to show it even better.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u32	Mr President! I am not going to take a stand on which country's dogs first, but, on the other hand, I would like to point out that it is very important that we should think about how the car trade in this country would take place if we did not have to register the car. I'm sure we'd have unchecked cars. We would certainly know what that would lead to, and now the dog trade is in a situation where there is no such registration. Well, as early as last season, the overall reform of the Animal Protection Act referred to the need to label dogs. I believe that, when dogs are imported from outside the EU and the EEA countries, perhaps this penalty payment could somehow be linked to the fact that, if the dog has not been properly inspected and already registered in the country of origin, we could intervene in this national legislation, which we are now preparing, to oblige the dog from the country of origin to be microchip or otherwise marked so that it is already in the register here. Then we will be able to prevent this illegal and unhealthy trade in animals, so that even this law, which we are discussing now, could take the form by which we can control it and not simply rely on hope. What is important is that, in the overall reform of the Animal Protection Act, this registration and the obligations contained therein take the form of preventing the trafficking of dogs imported from abroad which is illegal. It is said, however, that we may have Finns in such an economic situation who have fallen in love with a race, and if the breed can be obtained with 200 euros or a dog that is said to be from such parents, then I believe that it is a very important part of the low-income Finnish population. Or if it is a question of hunting dogs whose price is close to EUR 2000 as it stands, then this social dimension must be taken into account, but it must not be without the dog’s registration.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u33	Mr President! I would have made a brief comment here to a few representatives. First of all, Mrs Myllykoski: Yes, just like that. We understand well that it may be that if there is a little money, then it will attract a cheaper dog, and it is good to remember that dogs bring quite a lot of costs, for example, when they get sick, so it must be possible, and it is quite expensive today. To Mr Kalmar, I would like to comment on the fact that there are very few domestic homeless dogs, i.e. so-called rescucoirs on the premises of animal welfare associations. First of all, there's a few of them. We have quite a high level of property protection in this country, and quite often these dogs have been in bad conditions for quite a long time and may then be very challenging in their conduct. In that sense, I do not think it is worth making such a distinction. Each one makes his own choice on the basis of his own ethics, and if he does so legally and responsibly, why can't he take that dog from somewhere else — even if it doesn't exclude the domestic homeless dogs who need a home? I hope that this House will return to the mandatory identification mark for both dogs and cats, which is precisely the problem for us Finns, in the context of this reform of the Animal Protection Act. And then as far as this imported meat from outside the EU, meat intended for human consumption is concerned, I would nevertheless like us to encourage domesticism, which would also be the best thing for the climate. However, I do not know how much longer it can be done, because if our major players, such as cities or large university canteens, soon leave out domestic beef, then I do not know how long producers will be able to produce it and therefore produce it for private consumers. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u34	Mr President! The representatives Rantanen and Meri raised these rescuehounds, and I must say that these organisations, which bring a rescuekoir to Finland, are very responsible, so I feel a little bad if they are accused of not working well. And then, even though this representative, Mr Savola's summer cat, has now gone a little further than perhaps this main topic, I am glad that he raised it because 20,000 cats are rejected every year and that is a terrible figure. So cats and dogs, both of them, should be registered, and hopefully the government will also take this animal welfare law to the model that this will happen. If you wish something for schools, just for the children education, responsibility for how the animal is treated, what it means when you come home, for example, a pet. And if you take a pet, that means responsibility. If two things would like to be taught to children, then indeed this skill, with knowledge and first aid skills as well. Then on this imported meat: it is quite clear that Finnish people want domestic, clean, ethically produced meat, and this means that more education and more information in stores is shown what is produced domestically. It's an ecological act, an ethical act, an environmental act. If you usually eat meat, eating domestic meat is what it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u35	Mr. Speaker! At the end of this very good-spirited debate, I can now say that those basic Finns are more concerned with foreign dogs than with domestic dogs, as I read directly from Yle’s website an interview on how the operator of the Finnish Animal Protection Association states: “Our dog has been taken care of and come from conditions where animals cannot be photographed for safety reasons. It is much easier to advertise foreign dogs on websites because they are not needed by previous owners.” They have a large number of dogs that can't get home, and I'd say we take care of the domestics first.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u36	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u37	Mr President! This is a government proposal to the Parliament to approve and enforce an agreement with the United Nations Agency for Project Services in Finland with the United Nations. The proposal proposes that Parliament approve the agreement signed in August 2019 on the implementation of the provisions of the Act on the implementation of the legislation of the United Nations Agency for Project Services (UNOPS) in Finland. The main objective of the agreement is to agree on the establishment of an office in Finland, its legal status and the privileges and immunities of the office and its staff. Mr President! UNOPS is the United Nations Agency for Project Services. UNOPS was established in 1994 and provides support services to the UN and UN Member States in particular. These services include, for example, project management, procurement and the construction of sustainable infrastructure. The activities of UNOPS cover a wide range of sectors, including development cooperation, humanitarian aid and peace-keeping. In other words, UNOPS is an executive organisation and therefore a very exceptional UN actor. UNOPS does not finance its activities through the annual membership fees or voluntary funding of the Member States, but it finances its activities by means of revenue from its projects. UNOPS cooperates with the private sector to serve sustainable development objectives. Finland is committed to supporting the establishment of the UNOPS Finnish Office for the first five years. Finland’s support and its amount will be decided separately in the central government budget process when deciding on development cooperation appropriations. A total of EUR 20 million is proposed to support the location of the office in Finland between 2020 and 2023, of which EUR 5 million per year will be financed from one-off future investments in 2020 and 2021. In 2024, the establishment of the office is proposed to be supported at a level of EUR 500000 required by the host country agreement. The UNOPS Finnish office is expected to have between 10 and 20 employees in the early stages. The extent and speed with which the number of employees will increase will ultimately depend on the prospects for growth in the Office's programmes. Impact investing, innovation and, of course, how Finnish actors themselves create innovations and become involved in this ecosystem will contribute to this. Mr President! Finally, on the initiative of social impact investment in general. UNOPS Finland Office focuses on UNOPS' activities in social impact investing. In addition, the UNOPS innovation unit is moving to Finland. The unit will lead the work of UNOPS Innovation Centres, three of which are currently around the world — these three include Lund from Sweden. That is also why, Mr President, this is an excellent opportunity for Finland, for the Finnish innovation system and at the same time for Finnish universities and companies to genuinely attach themselves to global value chains. Impact investing refers to investments aimed at achieving significant social and social improvements. Through this action, UNOPS will create innovative financing solutions that will enable private capital to be involved in major investments in support of sustainable development objectives in developing countries. UNOPS is involved not only in the compilation of financial packages but also in the implementation of projects and possibly also as a co-leader. The impact investing initiative of UNOPS focuses on social housing, renewable energy investments and, in the future, health infrastructure. Example Examples of UNOPS’ impact investing activities include low-cost housing projects for which UNOPS has signed agreements with Ghana, Kenya, India and Pakistan, among others. Within this framework, hundreds of thousands of environmentally sustainable housing will be built with private capital. At the same time, conditions will be created for the emergence of a local mortgage market. Mr President! Finally, a summary of the impact of the proposal. The cooperation opportunities of Finnish companies with UNOPS can be strengthened significantly when the organisation has an office in Finland. The impact investing initiative will focus on large projects of at least EUR 100 million. The aim is to network Finnish experts and companies with UNOPS and thus to be able to participate in these activities. When UNOPS is an executive organisation, it is possible that the location of UNOPS in Finland can increase the organisation of meetings of other UN organisations in Finland, for example. In addition, the effectiveness of UNOPS will have a potentially significant impact on the SDGs. The UNOPS programme is becoming the leading development funding instrument of the UN system and its role in attracting private capital to infrastructure projects in developing countries is groundbreaking by reducing the risks to them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u38	Mr President! It warms my heart to see you again at the stake. UNOPS can at best be a gift to Finland, and Finland can at its best also be a gift to UNOPS. As you keep this whole in mind, you can see that the Finnish negotiators have got Finland a potentially fine agency here in Helsinki. UNOPS is of a slightly different nature from the UN agency or organisation. It does not work if it is financed by the Member States, but by the fact that it actually finances itself to a large extent through procurement and cooperation agreements. As a result, UNOPS has a great deal of potential to benefit from the Finnish business climate. In this speech, I have raised a few points where UNOPS is really useful to Finland. Firstly, with the help of UNOPS, Finland can be bigger in the world. The Finnish Agenda for Sustainable Development is much the same as the UN Agenda for Sustainable Development, and this means that we can use UNOPS, through procurement research, to highlight these goals in the developing countries in line with the Finnish Agenda and in line with the UN Agenda. Maintaining this in Finnish administrative and other environments is good, and it is also great from the point of view of UNOPS. UNOPS has long been looking for a place that is a little corrupt and where the various bureaucratic measures are limited, and therefore Finland acts as a good place for UNOPS to do this. In addition to the fact that Finland is as large as it is in the world through this way, i.e. through sustainable development, Finnish innovation can also rise in a very significant way – because the UNOPS is starting to move that the projects must amount to more than EUR 100 million. And even if we could start thinking about Business Finland, Sitra and other actors, it may be that there may be some projects that Finnish companies have opportunities to participate in. Finnish universities can also do this UNOPS will benefit greatly once it has been brought here to Helsinki. The additional benefit for the UN itself is also enormous, because up to this point, through the UNOPS, the UN will get a good actor, that is, Finland, much more prominently involved in the work of the UN. In other words, with less corruption in these procurements, there are faster decisions that are more significant, so it is very likely that the credibility of the UN, especially in very many developing countries with many conflicts, will also increase and increase. As a result, Finland's visibility and emphasis will also increase on this issue. I myself remember from my own experience that UNOPS was much criticised for the fact that, when hospital procurement or other purchases were made, the locals were strongly of the opinion that there was some corruption in the UNOPS value chains and supply chains. There has even been talk about this sort of thing almost — well, I leave it unsaid — but there has been some corruption. And this will enable Finland to influence the way in which the UN is viewed and the way in which the UN is viewed. So in that sense I would feel that UNOPS is of great benefit to Finland, but then at the same time Finland is of great benefit to UNOPS and the UN. Now that we have this kind of opportunity and the UNOPS is really coming to Finland, it would be interesting to see at this stage whether the ministries have already been forks, what different sectors of business could be put right now on this side: has Sitra already been woken up to this that UNOPS is coming to Finland? What about these others, such as Business Finland, Team Finland and other actors: how would they think that this whole could also be taken into account for Finland's benefit? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u39	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Skinner for his excellent presentation. — It is good that this investment in influence is not only carried out at Copenhagen headquarters, but also in Finland we can now get an office and invest in it. In fact, my question to the Minister relates to how universities and the private sector become partners here, and this funding base, and so on: We have a great deal of expertise in certain areas in Finland when we talk about energy, we talk about forest expertise and we talk about food-related know-how, and this in relation to our development aid. When this office comes, how many people will this office work here in Finland, what are its objectives, and how will it be ensured that we also have the expertise to find these experts from different sectors here in our own UNOPS operations? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u40	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that one of the United Nations' project services offices will be set up in Finland and Helsinki. This agency is an office of the UN’s impact investment programme, focusing in particular on achieving the UN’s sustainable development objectives in developing countries. The main focus of the programme is, among other things, on renewable energy, low-cost housing and health infrastructure projects. On the one hand, the creation of an office supports the cooperation opportunities of Finnish companies, while UNOPS now also has an office in Finland. Apparently, the focus of the office in Helsinki is on the objectives of sustainable development, the same objectives that also guide the Finnish Government's development cooperation. Therefore, ‘apparently to Helsinki’,I recall that at some Finland also has expertise in impact investing and innovation, so it is not by chance that the office is established in Finland. In a broader picture, it is very great that the relationship between Finland and the UN is developing and condensing. With the office, expertise will arrive in Finland, at least ten employees. However, we are far behind in the convergence of UN relations with the other Nordic countries. In Denmark, for example, there are 11 UN organisations with a total of some 1,500 employees. According to Denmark’s own estimate, the UN’s presence will cost the national economy some EUR 200 million, not to mention staff consumption in Copenhagen. A skilled and small country, such as Finland, should offer this know-how to UN and other multilateral actors. In addition to financial contributions, we can support the development objectives with this particular knowledge that we have. Representative Savola mentioned food and forest here. In particular, I would like to add the education sector to this, not specifically in relation to this UNOPS, but more strongly in future cooperation with the various UN actors. So let's get rid of our personal skills as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u41	Mr President! With the minister here, first of all, thank you for placing UNOPS here. That is an extremely good thing. In fact, a little like Mr Savola, I would like to ask: what is the concrete benefit of our SMEs and the education sector, how can we possibly now catch up with these particular value chains, which the Minister also mentioned? In fact, it is still a question of which other countries would be Through UNOPS such good models, which UNOPS and a certain country are already doing, can we learn from there then that we do not start from the beginning? If there are good models around the world, then surely it is worth learning from there as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u42	Mr President! Thank you for the good questions and comments. Perhaps I could start by saying that, of course, Finland should improve on the whole from the past when looking at the international procurement of the UN. UNOPShan is just one part of a wide international package in which, of course, the United States, New York plays a big, big role and then, of course, in Europe so far, Geneva and Copenhagen. Now, of course, it is a matter of the joyous news that Finland will for the first time receive UNOPS operations in Finland. But first, maybe this staff. The question was how many Finns will be hired into the office. In the early stages, 10 to 20 employees will be employed at the UNOPS Office in Finland. At this stage we must also thank the City of Helsinki. We have had excellent cooperation with the City of Helsinki when we have outlined this entity, facilities, facilities, infrastructures, and together we have done this work. This number of 10 to 20 employees may rise from this point of view, as it was not yet known at the time of signing the agreement that the UNOPS will also invest its innovation unit in Finland, which will increase the number of officials moving or recruiting to Finland. The proportion of Finns among them cannot be defined in advance. As a general rule, there is a significant number of citizens in the country where the international organisation is located, as we know. The overall objective set for UNOPS is that 65% of the target country's nationals should be involved in the operation. The UN, however, pays primarily on the basis of skills. Mr President! Then, in general, international value chains, procurements and opportunities for Finnish innovation competence or Finnish business. The representatives Savola and Wallinheimo rightly asked how Finnish SMEs or Finnish innovation activities overall feel better and will stick to international business. This is also written in the Government Programme that Finland should attach itself, glue itself, better to international value chains and see that demand. This is a very big question. This is not just about UNOPS or the UN, but about the future and competitiveness of the whole of Finland. Of course, there are priorities here, as I said, health, energy, housing from the UNOPS side, but it is quite clear that there is also reason to look at the Finnish innovation system as a whole. Education, education, related exports — surely a whole that has something to take away from it. Then, of course, we must look at the UN's value chains as a whole. We come to the Foreign Office — and I will come back to this later — now to invest more in procurement skills, in the country of destination, in this case when the United Nations is being discussed, in the United States, in New York, through which we operate globally, but also in Europe and internationally. You asked for an example: Denmark. Denmark knows how to wrap, Denmark knows how to conceptualize. That is what we know, but it is also evident in the UN that Denmark has succeeded in the procurement process. The reason for this is certainly that there has been UNOPS and the UN in Copenhagen. Now we have it, now we have the opportunity, together with the UN and UNOPS, to do it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u43	A point of order 6 will be presented for the sole reading. It is now decided on the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on UaVM 4/2019 vp, on the basis of the report. Following a presentation by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. There is no round of group talks. The advance speaking time shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u44	Mr President! In accordance with the Military Crisis Management Act, the Government has provided Parliament with a report on Finland's continued participation in the ORI mission in Iraq by approximately 80 soldiers in 2020. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has consulted experts and adopted a report on this subject. The Committee on Defence also gave an opinion on this. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the reporting procedure to be justified, given that the operation does not have a clear UN mandate and is a high-risk operation. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, External Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Security and Defence Policy examined the current situation in Iraq. The committee considers that the security situation in the country is fragile and vulnerable to rapid changes. Iraq's attack on Syria and the intensified relations between the United States and Iran have an impact on the stability of the region as a whole. The threat of Isis is still real and is capable of carrying out terrorist attacks. Mr President! The expert hearings stressed that Iraq still needs support both for the development of its security forces and for the overall consolidation and reconstruction of society. The committee was briefed on the various ways in which Finland participates in this task. The committee considered it necessary to reopen the Finnish Embassy in Baghdad. Opening up the delegation may contribute to the establishment of return and return arrangements for asylum seekers who have received a negative final decision. That was what the committee felt was important. Mr President! The Committee on Foreign Affairs also looked closely at the operation of the ORI. The committee considered it important that the mission should train troops to strengthen internal cohesion in Iraq. The Finnish Training Department and the training method have received good feedback in the operation. The committee also examined the risks of taking part in the operation. The conditions in the mission area may change rapidly and the security situation in Iraq remains poor and unpredictable. Although Iraq's security forces have freed its territories from ISIS control, there is a constant threat of terrorist attacks throughout the country. Iraqi national and international security authorities continue to use force against terrorist organisations operating in Iraq. In Iraq, a lot of mines and explosives have been planted during the struggles, which have not all been cleared out. The security situation in the region is also affected by the long-standing Kurdistan struggle for independence and the Turkish military action in Syria. Until now, the Finnish Defence Forces have performed the operation to guarantee the self-protection of their forces in a commendable way. The committee stressed that this would continue to be particularly important. Mr President! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the basis of the criteria set out in the report and now explained, considers it justified that Finland should continue to participate in the ORI operation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u45	Mr President! This report has been discussed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Defence. I will take a few points here. Firstly, both committees consider it necessary to continue the operation with some 80 troops in Iraq. This will include training, humanitarian aid, mine clearance and this type of thing which will enable the above-mentioned issues to be dealt with. There are approximately 31 countries participating in the operation. Finland is not alone in the Nordic countries; Sweden, Norway and Denmark are also involved. A total of 6,500 soldiers are involved. As the chairman of the committee has said here, the security situation is estimated to have improved, but it is clear that it is still extremely fragile and dangerous. Then comments: Finland will open an embassy in Baghdad, Iraq, in November. According to the report, the opening of the delegation is intended to strengthen cooperation with Iraq in a broad sense, not only with regard to trade, but also, as the report says, with the establishment of arrangements to facilitate this return cooperation. According to the report, it will be easier to implement these arrangements when we have a delegation there. Support and assistance for Iraq is appropriate and, as has been said, Iraq is a rich country with its natural resources. We have a long history of successful trade with Iraq, and it is to be hoped that in the future too things will be on the model that trade can well continue. As far as aid is concerned, whether it is EU aid within EU countries or this type of operational aid, it must include some form of consideration. For example, the recipient of the aid must commit himself to the rule of law in the EU and, in this case in Iraq, I think it is absolutely necessary for the Iraqi regime to commit itself to the return of Iraqis in Finland to their country of origin. It is up to the Iraqi regime to receive them. With regard to the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I would like to highlight this security situation. I said that earlier that about 80 soldiers will continue in this operation. Both the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Defence draw attention to the threats to the safety of Finnish soldiers serving in the operation also at home, i.e. in Finland, after the soldiers have returned to their country of origin after the mission. This is quite harshly said: a person who goes to another country to help puts his own life and health at risk in that context, and after returning to his country of origin in Finland, they may be exposed to security threats. Both the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs draw attention to this. I tried to ask the members of the committee a few questions about what this entry means: Is that a threat from which direction? How serious a threat is that? Have there been examples yet? That is all that was opened up, but we do of course have committees in Parliament which have extensive access to information, so that, if necessary, this information can be made available to the committee at least. But I consider this to be a very unpleasant, very worrying aspect and I understand, of course, that these public documents may not be able to open up more what the content and seriousness of the threat is and whether there are examples of it. Finally — well, here are the main points I wanted to say. — — — — Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u46	Mr President! On behalf of the Government, I could speak on this whole again and thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs for the report and the Committee on Defence for its opinion on Finland's continued participation in security sector education in Iraq as part of the International Coalition for ISIS OR operation. Reaching the goals of the international coalition in Iraq The fight against ISIS has been faster than expected and the ORI mission has moved to the last, fourth phase, which aims to normalise the security situation in the country. The report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs also states that although ISIS no longer has land in its possession, which has stabilised the security situation in Iraq, the security situation as a whole remains unstable and regional disparities persist. There are also Isis supporters in the country, and the organisation is able to carry out terrorist attacks in Iraq. The regional security situation is also tense, as the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs also states. This is partly affected by the situation in North-East Syria and the increase in tensions between Iran and the United States, which is reflected in the region. Unfortunately, Isis is still a threat to international security. The organization has carried out attacks around the world, especially in Asia, also this year. In addition, the organisation has active cells throughout Africa, particularly in North Africa and the Sahel region. The situation in North-East Syria can also contribute to a rapid change in the threat assessment if the imprisoned Isis fighters are released. It is also possible that: Isis uses the status quo to promote his own goals or create disorder. In the fight against ISIS, the development of the situation in Syria and the stabilisation of the country's security situation are essential. The improvement in the security situation in Iraq and the further development of society depend essentially on the ability of the Iraqi Government to address the social problems that have caused discontent: corruption, government activity, economy and unemployment, and equality between the various population groups. The widespread demonstrations in Iraq over the last few weeks are proof of the discontent of the people. The Iraqi Government is facing a great deal of work which requires addressing the root causes of the problems. Action is urgently needed. Although the threat posed by ISIS in Iraq has deteriorated, Iraq still needs comprehensive and long-term support to stabilise and normalise the security situation in the country. Support is still needed both for the training of security forces and for the overall stabilisation and reconstruction of society, which is also emphasised in the committee's report. Finland’s support for Iraq is comprehensive. In addition to military crisis management, Finland supports Iraq in the form of civilian crisis management, reconstruction, mine clearance support and preparatory training cooperation. At the same time, responsibility is increasingly being placed on the Iraqi national authorities. The opening of the Embassy to Baghdad in November 2019 will contribute to improving the dialogue and contacts with the Iraqi authorities as well as the possibilities for monitoring developments in Iraq and the region. The presence of the Embassy will also help Finnish companies to get involved in the reconstruction of Iraq and take advantage of the economic opportunities that open up. The presence in Baghdad can also contribute to the establishment of arrangements to facilitate return and return cooperation with Iraq, to which the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs draws attention. In its report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs also draws attention to the safety of the Finns involved in the operation. The activities of extremist groups in Iraq are primarily directed against the Shiite population and the Iraqi security forces, but the coalition forces can also be the target of attacks. The security situation of the mission is under constant surveillance and the armed forces have been prepared for rapid changes in the security situation. This also applies to the current internal situation in Iraq. For the time being, training activities within the framework of the ORI mission will continue normally. Mr President! Finally, the coalition against ISIS currently has 81 members. It is important, as the committee's report also states, that Finland is involved in the international front against terrorism and brings its own expertise and contribution. Extensive international cooperation and a comprehensive approach will contribute to both regional and international stability and security in the Middle East. It is expected that the coalition's activities will change in the next few years and that more attention will be paid to the threat posed by ISIS worldwide, including in Africa and Asia. In addition to military activities, Finland is currently participating in the work of the coalition's reconstruction, communication and foreign fighters working groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u47	Mr President! The central group highlights three points. They are safety, safety and security. Firstly, security from the point of view that, when we take part in this crisis management mission, it will contribute to improving the security situation in Iraq and will help us to combat the terrorist organisation Isis internationally. After all, Finns are not fighting there themselves, but are training: training these peshmerga troops, but also the Iraqi national forces. This is what Finland can offer, and this is what we also have the skills to provide. Another security factor is, of course, that we have Finnish soldiers well protected. As the Minister presented and told us, our soldiers will be on the best of terms and on the best of terms and on the best of terms, and the safety factors will be taken care of — that is, the equipment will be taken care of. We must have the last equipment on top, and we must ensure that this is the case in the future, and it is a good thing that the Minister confirmed this. Thirdly, of course, as a natural safety factor, we are also able to gain experience in our own national performance, we are able to obtain improvement, and I think this is an important issue. When we take part in crisis management tasks, it must always look at the national perspective we have in Finland and, among other things, the management, maintenance and operation of troops in this multinational environment, we now have a great deal of experience in these tasks. After all, Finland has been in this operation before, so this decision decides to continue with some 80 soldiers. In addition to this, there is civilian crisis management, and we are also investing in security through other means. And the Delegation, which is now being opened to Baghdad, will also help us to maintain its dialogue with the authorities of the local country better, to make it easier for these return agreements to be organised in Iraq and those negotiations to be opened, but, above all, to stabilise the situation there and to get the right picture here in real time. The central group, as we have done in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is united, naturally, behind this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u48	Mr President! First of all, I would like to correct the small childhood that came from Mr Niiko. He accidentally said that Iraq has attacked Syria. Iraq has not attacked Syria; Turkey has attacked Syria. So this little fix. Then, in connection with this operation itself, it has been said here that, when given such support to Iraq, it should be recovered as a consideration for the creation of a discussion that allows for a compulsory return agreement, so that that agreement would actually arise. This is a small problem because, in this military operation, you cannot imagine giving aid if it is free of charge — it is not aid. Then it's something else. It's a commodity. This, in my view, will then lead to more difficult working conditions for these journalists, particularly our trainers, in this case. Secondly, it is also necessary to say this: we already get quite a bit of consideration for it. First of all, we are now linked to this kind of international anti-terrorism coalition, through which we get a lot of understanding and cooperation in the fight against terrorism. Secondly, we train our own soldiers for this kind of new kind of warfare, which is, however, very important for our expertise and our own defence, especially when we consider how military changes can in future pass more like this hybrid warfare opportunities and others. Then the third thing we are getting out of this is that we are there at the stake to see how the nature of terrorism changes. This is also very important for our own security, not to mention transatlantic relations, which also have enormous benefits in this respect. In other words, the consideration has already been included, the consideration already exists there and the benefit already clearly exists there, and so I do not think that this should be conditional on how these compulsory return agreements can be achieved. I feel that it is a request of populist and perhaps detrimental to this operation itself, and I think that this should stop. Then, very briefly, it is a good sign that an embassy will be opened again, hopefully now in November. I very much hope that the demonstrations on Friday this week, which will start again, will not make this cooperation more difficult in the future. Great demonstrations are now taking place in Iraq, which may then go on for a long time and cause a great deal of difficulty, but hopefully they will not, and so, with this delegation, Finland's cooperation with Iraq could be intensified towards a better business, especially for Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u49	There was a little willingness to go to the debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u50	Mr President! Mr Al-Taee was now listening half to me because I mentioned that Iraq's security forces have freed its territories from ISIS control and that the threat of terrorist attacks is continuing throughout the country. Secondly, I also mentioned the fact that the long-standing Kurdistan struggle for independence and the Turkish military action in Syria have an impact on the security situation in the region. So that's what I said, I didn't mention anything else in any other way. With regard to this so-called forced return debate or the illegal return of Iraqi asylum seekers in Finland to Iraq, this negotiation between the Finnish Government and Iraq has already begun during the last parliamentary term on how we could intensify the return of these people to Iraq, because Iraq does not currently agree to this kind of good cooperation, so that people will be received there. In that sense, this delegation can contribute to it. But when I have the floor, I will ask the Minister that while we:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u51	Mr President! When the Secretary of Defense showed up, I'm going to ask him straight: How do you see this record in both the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Defence, which says that we must pay attention to the possible threats to the safety of Finnish soldiers in Finland, in the situation where they have carried out their duties there and settled in Finland? What's that all about? Who's the threat? Is there a... Well, I'll leave it to you to interpret. Are there examples of this, and how serious is it to be considered? It is obviously serious because both committees have wanted to raise it. For this consideration: It is not an easy and pleasant subject for me either. Of course, this consideration could be removed if the Iraqi regime were more sympathetic to the conclusion of a return agreement, bearing greater responsibility in that respect, making some sort of arrangement and timetable and road map, how it is done.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u52	Mr President! I was also somewhat concerned about this, which Mr Kiuru pointed out, that both committees indeed said that the potential threats to the safety of a Finnish soldier serving in the ORI mission in Finland should be taken seriously. I think this is a rather harsh message, and in this respect I would like to see the Minister take a little longer than that now, which is what this threat means.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u53	Mr President! Of course, the safety of the soldiers and their families in the country of origin and returning here must be taken care of. It's obvious. All in all, the fact that we are able to participate in such operations by means of troops formed through the general military service, through the reserve, certainly has the strength of us Finns. By the way, the fact that we are able to map out the entire age group and get the best experts for this type of task is a big thing for us in Finland, and the fact that there are several reservists here too, who have also gained experience from civilian life, which can be used to this end. These are huge factors. This is our strength, which we must insist on in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u54	Mr President! With regard to these forced return agreements, it must also be said in this same breath that we may now have a situation where the European Union has entered into an agreement with Iraq to re-inhabit residents of Isis camps in the Syrian region on the Iraqi side, which could lead to the possibility that the people of Central Finland and other Finnish citizens might be transferred or already in Iraqi prisons in detention or otherwise sentenced. We have no specific information on these. These return agreements and various agreements may lead to Iraq entering into negotiations with different countries, including Finland, on how these Isis fighters could be transferred back to their own countries. That is why I would be awfully careful now about how to talk about these agreements and how large they are in the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u55	Yes, and now, Secretary of Defense Kaikkonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u56	Mr President! Here's a few questions. The chairman of the committee, Mr Niikko, asked how bad the situation must become in order to re-evaluate Finland's participation. Of course, the situation is constantly being monitored, and of course we want to ensure that even if the circumstances are demanding, the Finnish crisis management forces will be able to carry out the task in such a way that the zinc coffins do not return but at the same time recognise that there is always that risk in these operations. Unfortunately, there have been such situations in history. It is difficult to say in concrete terms, but of course this is being monitored very carefully. In fact, these questions of the representatives Kiuru and Wallinheimo about the safety of Finnish soldiers in Finland are also related to the same theme. It is true that suspects in Isis connections are also staying in Finland. They're being followed by a sledgehammer, and they're being watched. In theory, at least, the threat can arise, which is why attention is paid to personal data issues, for example. The committees have more detailed information on these matters. Of course, we want to ensure the safety of Finnish crisis management forces, peacekeepers, both in operations in the world and in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u57	Yes, and let's go to the list of speakers. Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u58	Mr President! This committee's report raises this issue of cooperation on return and return, but perhaps it is something that is not so much worth paying attention to at this stage, but rather to this real issue that is being discussed, namely this whole operation and, above all, what we can do to combat ISIS and what we can do to reduce its influence, as in the original objectives of this operation, the destruction of Isis, above all. But we do know that this situation has become even more difficult since the events of the last few weeks. This report, and also the expert consultations that have taken place in committee, may have been before the actual events in the region in Turkey and Syria, and so it has not been possible to take a position on everything either. But, yes, we must take into account the whole neighbourhood and the political instability, what is going to happen there now and how it will also contribute to these operations in Iraq. It is inevitable that they will have some effect on these. And above all, I regret to say that the United States is an important player, a large number of Americans out there, and that we can continue to rely on the Americans and on the partnership that they are engaged in there. What happened with Turkey and Syria suddenly became the domestic policy of the United States — the domestic policy of the United States began to define what was happening in the Kurdish region. So what is essential is whether we can continue to trust that the domestic situation in the United States will not affect these events, and also that we will be part of the coalition, as a group, in such tasks as crisis management and other training tasks. It is very difficult to say how long it will be going to work here, but of course I personally hope that for so long these objectives will succeed in what has been set for these operations. There has also been a lot of talk about why we are going here or what Finland is getting. In my opinion, Mr Al-Taee well described precisely that competence and this fight against the whole crisis, and we are part of the group that is involved here, so that it will certainly also be useful. Personally, I would like to see Finland becoming a more active player and partner in such work and in these tasks, both in crisis management and in the area of terrorism. But finally, Mr President, I would like to point out that, when the political situation in that region is still very unstable and I am sure that it will continue to do so, then this coalition and its countries will have to improve cooperation even further so that we can respond to the threat against ISIS.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u59	Mr President! We should thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs for a good and balanced report. The grounds for Finland's continued participation in security sector training cooperation in Iraq are still in place and even highlighted as the situation in the Middle East intensified. The difficult and long-term basis, in particular to eradicate Isis terrorism and to stabilise the situation in Iraq, must continue in this situation. Of course, we must also be vigilant and, as the Minister of Defence has said, we must monitor security developments in the region closely. Special attention should also be paid to the safety of Finnish soldiers working in cooperation with education, just as the Committee on Defence has pointed out in its own opinion, among other things. The security situation in Iraq varies widely between regions and is subject to rapid change. It is now critically important to monitor the impact of Turkey's attack on Syria on the security of the Kurdish region in Iraq, including the activity of ISIS in the region. This is why it is important in cooperation with education to adopt policies that minimise security risks for Finnish troops. It is also obvious that the potential threats to the safety of Finnish soldiers serving in OR operations in Finland should be taken very seriously. Mr President! However, there is also a need for other instruments to stabilise Iraqi society. In this respect, the decision to open an embassy in Iraq is a sensible decision. Through increased economic relations and trade, Finland can accelerate the development of Iraqi society through, among other things, our educational know-how. It can also contribute to the establishment of arrangements to facilitate return and return cooperation with Iraq. The conclusion of an effective and concrete return agreement must be a priority for this government. On the other hand, the opening of the embassy should also be seen as a kind of reminder to Iraqis of the priorities of the coming years. The responsibility for creating and developing the basic conditions of Iraqi society rests with no one but the Iraqis themselves, and this work must be carried out immediately. Permanent international support is not an option, although it seems that there are no other alternatives to it in this particular situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u60	Mr President! Thank you, Minister of Defence, for your reply. So I asked what Finnish soldiers in Finland are threatened when they have returned from their mission, and you replied that there may be people in Finland who have Isis connections, and they may be a potential threat to Finnish soldiers. You also said they were being watched. Now that we have brought the new intelligence package into force, how do you see that this new intelligence legislation provides the authorities in Finland with tools – for example in this case – to ensure that the safety of Finnish soldiers in Finland is secure and how this control of the subsidy works – as far as you can now deal with it publicly in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u61	Mr President! In this operation, of course, Finland is intended to participate in this joint action against terrorism, including ISIS, and this was the starting point for stabilising the Iraqi region so that, once the security situation has improved, they can take over the country themselves, and then we can move forward with the fact that many refugees can also return to their own territories, including those asylum seekers who have wandered from there throughout Europe. There was no mention of the fact that the committee was pleased that the government had planned to set up a parliamentary committee for the development of crisis management policy. It is very welcome that Parliament as a whole should be able to reflect on these aspects together in creating a comprehensive strategy for crisis management that goes beyond the parliamentary term. Here, then, we can take a position on what resources we go where, whether the resources are sufficient and what the risk amounts are, what we take. Such joint parliamentary cooperation, which goes beyond the parliamentary term, is very welcome in this Parliament, because this increases the long-term and good working methods in this Parliament. This also commits all parties to the same goal when one has been able to study in detail the way in which each ministry works in this respect. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u62	Mr President! Here I would have taken a representative from the Al-Tae case to say that there should not be any consideration. In a way, I do not think it should be a matter of consideration, but at least I myself dream of fairness, because the situation is that Iraq, in a way, does not treat us as good partners in this system, because they do not want to accept the citizens of their own country, and I see more of that concern in this regard. Even if we do not gang up for our help there, it is again, even so you might say, contrary to good manners that the country to which help is given will not then manage its own land in it. If even this is the way it is said that quite a lot of these people, who are going back here, should even be professionals in that field, then I would like Iraq to take a stand on this issue as it should be, just for the sake of justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u63	Thank you, Mr President. I agree with Mr Laakso on fairness. It would have been fair if, in the early 1990s, Finland had not taken part in the major sanctions that the UN once imposed on Iraq — even the light bulbs — were part of these coercive forces. They led to a very significant number of children in Iraq suffering from a major deficiency that is also reflected in the development of Iraq today. It is regrettable that Finland was once part of this system of sanctions through the UN, and this makes it so unfair that so many Iraqis have had to leave their homes — mainly because Iraq itself has failed to serve its own citizens, but also because the international community did not know how to remove Saddam Hussein.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u64	And back to the list of speakers, Mr Rantanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u65	Mr President! I am a little confused by what Mr Al-Tae said, which led to the conclusion that the Finns owe something to Iraq and therefore it would not be appropriate to have reciprocal agreements of any kind. That sounds a little weird. Personally, I think it is important that in such agreements — as Mr Ovaska said here, what Finland can get out of this — Finland naturally has to consider what it can get out of these agreements, and that agreements and financial grants should not be made which are not something that we can get out of ourselves, as a small country, because we certainly cannot afford that either. But perhaps I should like to ask the Minister now about this opening of the embassy in Baghdad. There are certainly good ideas in this report, but has the risk been assessed that if the embassy starts writing more visas from there and then comes to Finland, after which asylum is sought in Finland – that has now been the rising trend of this year from elsewhere in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u66	Mr. Speaker! The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs raised this parliamentary preparation for crisis management, and this is a very legitimate point to raise, because crisis management operations are always going over our parliamentary term. Governments change, crisis management operations remain. For us to have a little longer-term view of where Finland should participate and what is effective, which is impressive, it is worth finding consensus and understanding in this house. It has been said of us that Finland is all the bigger in these crisis management missions around the world, and we have been and certainly still are. Of course, in addition to this operation in Iraq, the biggest and most impressive operations are the Afghanistan Resolute Support Mission and the Lebanese UNIFIL. In addition, there are smaller operations such as Mali, Lebanon, UNTSO, Operation Sophia and so on. But, Minister, you visited Lebanon last week to meet Finnish peacekeepers and to discuss these current issues. Could you describe a little of this visit, this influence of Finland in these peacekeeping missions? In fact, I would also ask you how you see the long-term development of our crisis management missions. What are the priorities in which Finland should invest? We are now involved in several operations – are there perhaps a little less operations, more effort, or is it showing the flag in as many operations as possible the strength of Finland? All in all, being involved in crisis management in Finland is important, it improves our national security, brings that competence to us, and then internationally we are able to make our own contribution to developing this security situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u67	Mr President! This consideration when it comes to the issue, I would like to make it clear for myself that I do not think in the way Mr Laakso's speech showed that we are only involved in international crisis management and the fight against terrorism if it is possible to deal, as it were, with refugees or asylum seekers. No, to me the consideration is to participate in crisis management operations, so that we receive knowledge and training for our part and, for our part, we can do exactly what Mr Savola also said, to play a greater role there. But, of course, it is important, as Mr Rantanen well described in my opinion, that the whole is being evaluated, but we should not go too far to put these on that scale again. I would ask the Minister: does not participation in such operations contribute to the fact that people do not flee from their country of origin to escape, for example, ISIS?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u68	Mr. Speaker! I would like to comment on this point raised by Mr Kiuru — or by many others — which is a threat at home. When the Minister mentioned that Isis-related persons could pose a threat, should they not be detained then? What is the Minister's position or the government's position on this, do you think that monitoring by the subsidy is sufficient? And then here, when the crisis veterans come home from the area: How do you handle aftercare in this operation? Has it been highlighted in any way?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u69	Mr President! I would like to continue with these good speeches from colleagues. In turn, I would like to say that this consideration is already in the operation itself, which means that Finns will have very good experience through this, as part of the coalition against terrorism, through which we will also be able to act more effectively from there. In other words, when, for example, in the Turkish operation on the Syrian side of that region, that dynamic changes, the nature of Isis changes, we are there now to see how these change and how we can then better protect our country. Then there is also the fact that the United States has asked Finland to participate in this operation, i.e. this is also a public relations activity, and in this we have already received a great deal of consideration. That is why I find it somewhat repulsive that we are also talking about these people, the refugees, as a commodity, so that they should be able to be sent back better, once we support the training of Iraqi soldiers in the fight against Isik. Perhaps then, as the fourth consideration that I see here, I see that Iraq has now been fighting terrorism, and tens of thousands of people have died up to this point. Finnish Isis fighters have also gone there to fight, and they have also been fought there. Has Iraq not already paid a heavy price for this operation?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u70	Secretary of Defense Kaikkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u71	Mr President! Thank you for a good debate. Here are some more questions and I will try to answer them. It should be noted that this entity is, in fact, primarily Foreign Minister Haavisto's hay, but I will try to patch up, and of course even the defence administration is bound to believe that it is nothing. Mr Kiuru asked about the importance of intelligence law, and in relation to your question: Yes, it also brings new tools in the fight against terrorism. Whether we talk about the country of origin or more widely, that is also relevant here, and I would say that it is very valuable that, after years of work, we now have modern intelligence legislation that meets today's challenges. It does improve the safety of Finns. Mr Rantanen asked about this visa issue in relation to the Baghdad Embassy. Well, yes, let me be frank, it is more the property of the Foreign and Home Affairs Ministers that the question better be directed there, for example, in Question Time or other contexts. I'm not trying to answer that. Similarly, the Home Secretary’s property has Mr Huru’s question about the detention of dangerous persons. My impression is that if you have genuine and convincing concerns about safety, then our authorities will act in this country. The question of aftercare is a good one. It's a matter of attention. Representative Ovaska asked whether Finland’s participation in crisis management does not contribute to the continuation of life in that region and would not contribute to reducing refugee status. It is true that, insofar as regions can be stabilized in troubled areas such as the Middle East, Africa and elsewhere, this will, of course, create conditions for reducing the pressure on refugees. Mr Savola also asked about this crisis management. You're right. I was in Lebanon last week. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that Finnish peacekeepers do good and important work in the world. We've been in Lebanon for 40 years. It seems that the need does not immediately leave it, unfortunately. After all, our current participation has been agreed until the end of 2020 and in the coming winter we will then have to outline whether we will continue there and, if we continue, in what way we will continue. Let us get back to this when it comes to it. But it was great to see Finnish men and women there doing important work under tense conditions with good motivation. Our model is based on a very long reserve, and it produces an excellent number there. I saw the professional list of all that we bring together about 200 Peacekeepers, and there is a metalman and car repairer and a welder and a builder and a cook and a master’s degree. That spectrum is very diverse, what is there, and very versatile competence at the same time. It's a stronger skill set than any mercenary army could guarantee. In other words, we can be proud of the work that Finns do there, and the long-term work that has been done for decades, the locals also appreciate. In other words, the locals in Lebanon and elsewhere appreciate the Finnish peacekeepers, and it will then help to do the work under those conditions. We'll have that whole crisis management thing lined up later. The intention is for the parliamentary committee to consider this issue and then adopt a policy on it. For example, it raises the very question that you asked, Mr Savola, that which is better, that we may be in many places with a little smaller troops showing the flag, or whether it is better to concentrate on some with a little stronger participation. After all, the overall strength of the world has been reduced from the greatest years of its existence. It is precisely that UNIFIL mission in Lebanon that is the largest of all by around 200, but this ORI mission, which is being discussed today, is also significant. Afghanistan is, and then there are smaller troops. But this whole package is the aim of parliamentary alignment. Mr President! Last but not least, these are questions of the kind that it is valuable that we, as a Parliament as a whole, are looking for a common line here, and it is great that the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have found a unanimous line on these matters. — — — — Thank you for this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u72	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on UaVM 3/2019 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Chairman of the Committee, Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u73	Honored Speaker! This is a strategic partnership agreement between Japan and the EU. The strategic partnership agreement between the EU and Japan has never been stronger. It is based on democracy and shared values of human rights and our commitment to transparency, cooperation and fair trade. Finland's bilateral relations with Japan are also good, and President Niinistö is currently in Japan following the coronation of Emperor Naruhito. Relations between the European Union and Japan are based on the 1991 Joint Declaration and the ten-year Action Plan adopted in 2001. The EU Security Strategy recognises Japan as one of the EU's strategic partners. In November 2012, the Council of the European Union authorised the Commission to negotiate a strategic partnership agreement with Japan. Negotiations started in 2013. The agreement resulting from the negotiations is a horizontal cooperation agreement involving the EU and its Member States and Japan. The committee drew attention to the fact that the content and importance of the EU's strategic partnerships are partly unclear and that in future it would be useful to clarify the concept in the EU and to examine it more coherently. It is estimated that the agreement will significantly enhance cooperation between the EU and Japan in different sectors and will enable an ever wider dialogue with Japan. The agreement reflects the common values of the EU and Japan and aims to strengthen partnership in a number of policy areas, including human rights and fundamental freedoms, democracy, international peace and security, effective multilateralism and sustainable development. The Partnership Agreement contains the EU's standard political clauses in agreements with third countries on democracy, the rule of law, human rights, fundamental freedoms and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. These issues are defined as an essential part of the agreement. If these parts are violated, it may lead to a negotiation or even a sanction procedure. The Parties to the Agreement shall ultimately have a unilateral right to decide to suspend the application of the provisions of the Agreement. The Agreement shall provide for the establishment of a Joint Committee. The Committee shall be composed of the members of the Parties to the Agreement who shall be responsible for coordinating the partnership, deciding on new areas of cooperation, monitoring the implementation of the Agreement and resolving disputes arising from the Agreement. Mr President! In parallel with the Partnership Agreement, negotiations were held on an economic partnership agreement between the EU and its Member States and Japan, a so-called EPA agreement with which the Strategic Partnership Agreement forms an institutional entity. The EPA Agreement entered into force in February 2019. The EPA Agreement can be considered significant. The EPA agreement created a free trade area with 630 million people. Japan is one of the largest consumer markets in the world and after China is the largest trading partner of the EU and Finland in Asia. In this context, it is important to remember that the EU will conclude negotiations with Japan on investment protection and investment disputes. In the light of the above considerations, the Committee considers that the proposal is necessary and appropriate. Mr President! In conclusion, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considered it important for the EU to strengthen its relations with Japan when dealing with this issue. Japan is a natural partner for the EU on many issues, both bilaterally and multilaterally. In accordance with the report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs proposes that Parliament approve the strategic partnership agreement referred to in the Government proposal HE 17/2019 vp in so far as the agreement falls within the competence of Finland and the draft law contained in the Government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u74	President! In this regard, the chairman of the committee was very much able to open up the committee's ideas and what is involved in this partnership agreement. Perhaps the main point here is that the values and the thinking world that people think about in Finland, Japan and the EU in general, and how trade should be based, above all, on a rule-based system and free trade, and that is what we are trying to strengthen through these various agreements, namely how we can develop that dialogue and exchange of information for us. I would also like to see that political dialogue can also be intensified between Finland, the EU and Japan, because the world situation is unstable. In the previous paragraph, I referred to the United States. For its part, I believe that the EU will seek and intensify its relations with Asia even more and that it will also improve the position of both Finland and the European Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u75	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. We can now either adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u76	Mr President! This government proposal will therefore bring forward the payment of a one-off State contribution of EUR 237 million to basic services originally intended for next year for this year. The proposal is in itself the right one, and the municipalities struggling with economic distress will benefit somewhat from it, although the proposal will not bring them any additional money, given this and next year as a whole. Local government debt risks increasing from EUR 20 billion to around EUR 30 billion in the coming years if municipalities do not succeed in balancing their economies. Mr President! Of course, the municipalities have their own primary responsibility for getting their economies in order, but at the same time, it is worth noting that the municipalities have far from always received full compensation from the State for carrying out the statutory tasks assigned to them. In fact, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities has often pointed out that, for example, the cost of increased space needs has not been correctly estimated by the legislator. I therefore call on the Rinte Government to pay particular attention to this matter, so that the current plight of the municipal airport does not get any worse. Experts have also drawn attention to the fact that many of the government’s temporary expenditure increases may remain permanent expenditure in municipalities. Mr President! There is great uncertainty on the municipal level, in particular, due to the reform of social services, the guidelines of which are still quite transparent. Last week, we held a wide-ranging debate here in Parliament on the extension of the Act on restrictions on the outsourcing of municipal social services and investments until the end of 2025. It is a very long time, and if this law is adopted as such, it will be in force for almost a decade. Of course, due to the prospect of a social welfare reform, there is also a great deal of confusion about the change and adequacy of their income base. Here too, the situation is very serious and cannot continue as it is for a long time. I therefore call on the government to take the economic situation of municipalities more clearly into account in future reforms and legislative proposals when bringing them to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-22-ps-54.u77	The 11th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 23 October 2019. The Council of Presidents proposes that the following procedure be followed for the sole reading of the draft amending budget: The representative who intends to propose amendments to the report of the Committee on Finance must submit his amendment to the central office. The amendments must be submitted to the Central Assembly no later than 2 p.m. on Wednesday 23 October 2019. The debate will begin at the plenary session on Wednesday, 23 October 2019 at 14 p.m., with a rapid part-session, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. In addition, the President may, in the order in which he is considering, issue replies. The vote will take place on Friday, 25 October 2019, at 13 p.m., during a detailed discussion of the plenary session. The vote shall be taken on the basis of a voting book, which shall contain all the amendments tabled by the deadline. The President shall give the floor for a proposal and the statement of support shall be used immediately after the proposal has been made. The representative can make all his proposals at once. When making a proposal, simply referring to the number of the amendment is sufficient. There is no need to use the speech button. When all proposals and votes have been put to the vote, they shall be put to the vote in the order of the voting book. To the extent that no amendments to the draft amending budget have been proposed, it shall be deemed to have been adopted in accordance with the report of the Committee on Finance.
