ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, ärade ricksdagsledamoter! The news of the accidental death of Congressman Antti Toivo Armas Rantakangas reached us on Sunday, Sunday, the day of rest. The unexpected death of a well - kept and respected fellow worker seems hard to believe, let alone accept. The rest of the day was taken by anxiety and disbelief, finally by shock and deep sorrow at our friend’s death — our friend, because that’s how Antti Rantakangas saw us. Antti understood that the work of the MP is based on trust and hard work. A firm handshake and eye - to - eye look made sure that this trust and hard work never went to waste. I dare say that, apart from me, this same trust and hard work has been experienced by all those present here today, as well as by thousands of people all over Finland. The front-row influence is now gone. Antti wasn't the loudest person in this hall, but his voice was carrying. The fact that he was elected six times as a Member of Parliament tells us. Twenty years of work in this community has left its mark on all of us, both the staff and the representatives. Despite the presence of all of you, this hall feels empty today. The flowers in Antti Rantakangas’ place convey a message to us about both life’s unpredictability and the fragility of the lifeline. The words written are rarely able to accurately describe people’s grief and feelings in the vicinity of death. That's why I think it's appropriate to read to you from Tommy Tabermann's poetry collection. Stars in the palm of the hand: “If I leave, before the long delay. Soon I will return to you, and you shall receive a sickle from me, with which to reap, and a hammer with which to build, and with the seeds and the soil of your pot. And if I did not return, you would be with me through the world, under my wings like a spring wind.” With this, I want to say that good friends will never die. They live in our memories, our hearts and our thoughts. Their lives and their work will continue as long as we remember. On my behalf and on behalf of the whole Parliament, I wish to express sympathy and sympathy to the families and loved ones of Congressman Antti Rantakangas. We've lost a friend and a co-worker. Grief is greatest among those who have lost a loved one. We hope that those close to us will find comfort in the knowledge that Antti Rantakangas was a fellow worker, a friend and a respected congressman in this house. Jag vill på mina egna och hela ricksdagens vägnar framföra vårt secure deltagande till ricksdagsledamot Antti Rantakangas anhöriga och närstående. Riksdagen håller nu en täst me för att hedra joht av Antti Rantakangas. Parliament will now be silent for a moment to pay tribute to the memory of Antti Rantakangas.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. It is now decided on the basis of the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 11/2019 vp, on the basis of the report. Following a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance, with a maximum of 5 minutes of group speeches. Other pre-reserved speeches shall be taken in the order of the group statement and shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes. Furthermore, in the order in which I am considering it, I agree with the response.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u3	Mr President! This first budgetary plan comes very soon after the government programme has been discussed, and much of the same things are on the table, which have been the subject of debate in this Chamber and in the wider context of the debate for several months now. I am sure that next spring's budgetary plan will find more new priorities. But even in this JTS, the special committees have worked very hard, and there are comments from different administrative sectors, however, in keeping with this very idea of JTS, how the Finnish economy will be kept in the course of its career in the coming years. There are three objections to the committee's report, but I shall now present some of the main points of this report by the Committee on Finance. The budgetary plan includes guidelines for central government finances, local government finances and employment pension schemes and other social security funds for the years 20 to 23. It also includes Finland's stability programme and responds to the EU's demand for a medium-term budgetary plan. The sections of local government finances are complemented by a separate municipal economic programme with a focus on the outlook for local government finances and on state measures. The report has been examined mainly by the Committee on Finance in terms of the general picture of public finances and the outlook for the economy, while the opinions of the other specialised committees which I have mentioned in the annex to the report raise questions of the administrative sector. The general view is that Finland’s economic growth would fall significantly after the boom in 2016. According to the Ministry of Finance, which is the basis of the budgetary plan, GDP will increase by 1.5% this year, by 1.0 per cent next year, and will continue to slow down towards 0.7 per cent in 2023 towards the end of the planning period. However, domestic demand is estimated to remain stable and to sustain economic growth. The estimates presented by the economic research institutes are also similar. The Committee on Finance draws attention to the risk that Finland will violate the preventive part of the Stability and Growth Pact in 20 on the basis of the budgetary plan. This is partly due to the fact that permanent expenditure increases and future investment are carried out in a forward-looking manner, while the related financing solutions are mainly in later years. However, according to the Ministry of Finance’s assessment, Finland broadly adheres to the structural balance pillar and the deviation from the requirements of the preventive part does not become significant. This mechanism, as agreed in the Government Programme, is new and exceptional, and that is why international observers have had a lot to do with it, but it will work as long as the strengthening of employment and sound financial management are maintained in that line. The Committee stresses that the economic slowdown and structural problems in the economy require an active economic and employment policy for the government. In order to achieve the objective of balance, structural reforms must also be implemented, the most important of which will continue to be the reform of social and health services. The Government's guidelines provide a good starting point for its preparation. The key is also to improve the conditions for economic growth by stimulating investment in knowledge and innovation, such as by investing in research and product development, skills and raising the educational level of young people. At the same time, sufficient economic buffers must be ensured so that public debt does not cause problems during the next recession. The committee considers the government's target setting to be clear and considers it important that the government pursues a budgetary balance by the end of 23. It is in close temporal and factual contact with raising the employment rate to 75%. The Committee stresses that the objectives of the Government Programme to reduce inequalities and reduce income inequalities are essential for social justice. However, the achievement of these objectives, as well as the objective of carbon neutrality, and the impact on public finances are somewhat more difficult to assess than for these more mathematical objectives. The government will increase permanent expenditure on public finances by around 1.4 billion at the 23rd level compared to this spring's technical budgetary plan. Investments will be targeted at social security, social and health services, early childhood education, education and research, environmental protection and climate policy measures. The committee notes that the expenditure increases decided on during the planning period are pre-emphasised in relation to the increase in tax revenue resulting from changes in tax bases. The achievement of the objective of balance therefore requires effective action to improve employment and productivity, in addition to the changes in expenditure and income already decided upon. Improving employment: The target of 75% of the employment rate is necessary to achieve the budgetary balance target already in 23. The Government has launched a large-scale preparatory work aimed at drawing up proposals for measures to increase the number of people employed by 30,000 by spring 20. This is currently being prepared by the tripartite working groups, on the basis of which the government will adopt the final orientations in the budget debate in autumn 20. The Committee stresses the diversity of measures, since no single reform is sufficient to improve employment, but a number of measures are needed in the same direction. The service structure of labour policy needs to be improved, work capacity and work-related migration promoted and the problem of matching eased. The resources of the employment services must also be provided, as many unemployed job seekers need high-quality personal advice and guidance. The committee stresses the importance of measures to improve skills, since the level of education of the population has not increased and is already lagging behind many of the peers. It is worrying that nearly 200,000 people in Finland who are at the best working age of 25 to 54 do not have a post-basic school degree, which significantly undermines employment opportunities. The Committee considers it essential that the 4% R & D target in the Government Programme be consistently maintained in the following budgetary plans, as knowledge and high-quality R & D is a prerequisite for Finland's success and international competitiveness. With regard to these carbon neutrality objectives, the Committee on Finance continues to state that these objectives are ambitious and require major changes in the way people consume and move. Intersectoral measures are needed in several administrative sectors and in particular new solutions to promote the circular and bioeconomy. It is also essential to ensure the consistency and compatibility of these measures. The Committee considers it important that the effectiveness of the measures taken be monitored throughout the parliamentary term as part of the sustainable development component of the budgetary plan. At the same time, indicators for evaluation should be developed. The committee shares the Government's view that an ambitious, coherent and proactive climate policy will also create a stable investment environment, which is an opportunity for Finnish companies and employment. With regard to debt, the Committee also highlights the increase in household debt. In recent times, growing indebtedness has raised concerns among public authorities, including the European Systemic Risk Board and the IMF have warned Finland about this. The growth in private consumption, based on consumer confidence, is very sensitive to negative news, so the growing indebtedness of households also poses a risk to economic development, and the measures that have been prepared need to be taken with determination. As a whole, therefore, the Committee on Finance proposes that Parliament approve the statement on the report and has no comment on the Government's overall line. Finally, I would like to quote one expert opinion, in this case from Akavalta, which brings out the basic question that will open up before us for the coming years: ‘The birth rate has fallen sharply, the younger age groups are shrinking and the working-age population is shrinking. The decline in labour input threatens to hamper economic growth, which is ultimately the only sustainable way to finance growing public spending, which is exacerbated by the ageing population. This underlines the importance of improving employment. The higher it gets, the lower the growth brake resulting from the future reduction in the input. As many people as possible of working age should be at work. It is worth considering expenditure increases, especially permanent ones, in terms of growth and employment. It must be assessed whether they will strengthen employment and economic growth.”
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u4	Then let's go to group speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u5	Mr President! The budgetary plan now under discussion aims to ensure that Finland is reformed in an equal and sustainable manner. The Government’s major economic policy objective is to strengthen employment, increase prosperity and reduce inequalities. Young people are often accused of living in the moment. It is said that we lack the perspective that a newly lived life can bring. However, I have learned that it is employment policy that is not a sprint, but a marathon. Other Nordic countries have chosen a marathon share in employment management, while Finland has rather tried to sign up for a 100-metre sprint. This government knows that sustainable results come from marathon sustainability — from investing in Finnish expertise, well-functioning services and, for example, a functional infrastructure. This government believes that increasing job opportunities, helping people and strengthening the competence of the entire nation is the right way to success. In other Nordic countries, high employment rates have been achieved through active labour market policies, where the unemployed are not left alone with unemployment. It is the right way, and that is the way the government rightly wants to go in Finland. A broad package of far-reaching measures to boost employment, which will create tens of thousands of jobs during the reign, is in preparation. Mr President! The Government and this report will lead Finland firmly on the road to reforms and future investments. Experts have long recommended, for example, an extension of compulsory education, and it is now being implemented. Reforms also involve reducing inequalities — an important objective of the new government’s economic policy. Then attention must be shifted towards those who most need help: low-income pensioners, unemployed people and students. The most important focus for sustainable and inclusive economic growth is on the lowest income categories. Tax reductions must therefore be targeted at low and middle incomes, as the government does. Mr President! This government is building a bridge for generations instead of confrontation. At last, the care of the elderly will become a reality. Smaller pensions are being raised. Through extensive parliamentary cooperation, the front premium for veterans is more than doubled. Mr President! My grandfather started his own journey as a country cheerleader. There was a shortage of everything, and the bites on the plate were not big either. That's why my grandfather decided that his family would never starve. And for my grandfather, the opportunity for offspring to train themselves was an important way to success. I myself experience great humility in the face of a generation of builders of our well - being. It is our duty today's operators, including young people, to ensure that the old age of our elderly is secure and valuable. That is what we need reform of care and health care. Mr President! Anyone seeking simple answers in politics is often disappointed. However, he finds value choices. Today it is easy for me to stand before my grandfather with the government’s choices of value. I know that the government will improve the livelihood and care of a small pensioner. I can also tell you that the government has not forgotten the future generations, but that there is a historic reform of compulsory education in the country, which gives young people the opportunity to succeed in today's work. Even after this, I know that as a final speaker I hear my grandfather say: ‘The climate change is being dealt with by young people. You will take it seriously, won't you?” And this greatest challenge for our generation must also be met when the resources of public finances are managed over the next few years. Mr President! The Social Democratic Parliament supports the adoption of the Government's report on the budgetary plan for the years 2020 to 2023.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u6	Madam President! Finland is a small open economy whose export prices are determined on the global market. Brands and quality are no longer a viable competitive asset — they are a prerequisite for maintaining the market. Technological and qualitative know-how in developing countries is fast catching up with ours. That's why competitiveness always comes back at the price. Here Finland has painted itself in a corner and continues to paint. Finland is an expensive country. According to both OECD and EU statistics, public expenditure after France is the second largest relative to total output. This has its consequences. Finland’s current account has slipped into a chronic deficit since 2011. The collapse of the surplus in goods exports has not been compensated by service exports or reduced imports. Debting countries, municipalities and citizens are still in debt. The tax wedge, i.e. the difference between employer costs and net wages, has become intolerable. The purchasing power of the salary is weak. That is why the private and public sectors have more and more jobs, for which the pay they pay does not at least live better than income transfers. Madam President! In 2023, the government aims to achieve a budgetary balance. However, with this plan under discussion, the objective will go further. The problem of Finland's unbalanced economy is summed up in four areas where the government does not pay sufficient attention: Central government expenditure is estimated to increase by around 3% a year during the spending limits period. Central government revenue is estimated to increase by around 2% a year. The central government budget is estimated to have a deficit of around two billion next year. The deficit will increase by at least EUR 4 billion by 23 years. The state is completely separated from the reality of local government finances, which in this spending limits period will fall to more than EUR 3 billion, or 1.2 per cent, of the deficit. Expenditure growing faster than income is already completely unsustainable for an expensive country, and this government is increasing spending through its own decisions on climate leadership and immigration, raising the age of compulsory education. It will also increase future expenditure by too few preventive measures for families with children and will also put the impossible adjustment burden on municipalities. It does not address the root causes of an unbalanced economy. Madam President! Big solutions are needed for Finland’s major problems. Competitiveness and people's purchasing power must be improved by reducing the tax wedge. The public sector needs to be reduced, expenditure needs to be kept under control, expenditure needs to be refocused. We need more nurses and teachers, fewer secretariats for climate panels and networks of world experts. The public sector must release skilled labour to the private sector. Those trained in the care sector must be lured back into the sector by adjusting conditions and wages. More labour will be gained by giving up this increase in compulsory education age and enabling better cooperation between educational institutions and businesses, on the terms of companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u14	Mr President! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, I offer our heartfelt condolences to the relatives of Antti Rantakangas for the loss of our friend. The Ministry of Finance estimates that next year economic growth will slow down to one per cent and will continue to fall below it by the end of the parliamentary term. According to experts, this is mainly a normalisation of growth for Finland, not a recession. However, there are exceptional risk factors in the world economy that may completely collapse growth. Also, the winter strike that has begun today is not yet visible in the predictions at hand. The government's corporate governance is in crisis. The government has committed itself to the balance of public finances in 2023. Is it enough to have a wish dream? According to this plan, at the end of the period, public finances will be EUR 3.6 billion in deficit, and if the earnings-related pension scheme is removed from the figure, the deficit will be up to EUR 5.3 billion. So I saw in normal economic development without a recession or, in particular, an international economic crisis. This is far from balanced. The public balance sheet weakens by more than 20 billion over the four-year period of the slope, including the sale of assets. It reduces the chances of responding to uncertainties in the future. The future of the welfare state, the education of children and care for the elderly depend entirely on sustainable economic policy. The main objective of the Rinne government is to increase the employment rate to 75% and to increase the number of employed persons by at least 60,000 persons. However, all the actual employment measures are completely missing from the budgetary plan. The government has promised not to come back until next summer. In the light of recent information, what comes out of there next summer is quite frightening. So far, the government has reduced employment rather than increased it by its actions. Last week, Parliament's Information Service reduced the government's efforts to reduce employment by 5,000. . The Coalition Party has provided in its alternative budget the means to bring more than 60,000 more jobs to Finland based on expert calculations.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u17	Mr President! Thank you very much, on behalf of the Parliament Group, to the whole House for our condolences. It comforts us when we have, in a shocking way, unexpectedly lost a close colleague. Mr President! Thanks to the previous government's policy, Finland's economy is in a better condition than four or five years ago. However, there is no room for lulling in this country. The economic outlook has deteriorated. The world economy is not expected to be of any help to Finland. Future economic and employment developments now largely depend on the solutions that we Finns themselves make. That is why the central parliamentary group makes a serious appeal for moderation and harmony in the labour market. We understand that workers have legitimate expectations. However, for Finland’s future, the economy of our country and people’s everyday life, the winter strike would be a pure sand for the wheels of society. Mr President! There are two things for the central parliamentary group beyond the others: everything possible must be done, that we get 60,000 new jobs in Finland during the parliamentary term and that the economy will be in balance in 2023. In the future, jobs will also be created primarily for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. So far, we have already decided together, for example, to reform wage subsidies, to launch an employment experiment and to double the right to remove investment. This employment-intensive entrepreneurship policy must continue. Above all, there is a considerable need for more employment-enhancing solutions. The central parliamentary group understands that it takes time to prepare matters together with the social partners. However, we expect that the agreed timetable will be maintained. Next spring, we will have to prepare the ground and, at the latest, in less than a year's time, the government's budget debate will have to take decisions to get at least 30,000 people to work. The central parliamentary group proposes seven solutions: care that Finnish work and services are sold in the world; increased local reconciliation at workplaces; The Finnish model in response to the fact that vacancies and unemployed job seekers meet; to facilitate the employment of people capable of part-time work; to attract foreign experts to Finland in areas where there is a need; to invest in research and development; to support the employment of young people and to combat exclusion. In the big picture, mitigation of climate change is a big opportunity to create new jobs and businesses throughout Finland. This requires that we replace the use of polluting fossil fuels as far as possible with the sustainable use of renewable natural resources in our regions, that we safeguard the future of Finnish agriculture and forestry, that we invest in knowledge and that we introduce new technologies. We want to turn rational greenness into a new industry for the benefit of the whole country and all Finns. Over the coming decade, billions of investments are needed in Finland to develop and deploy new low-emission technologies. We propose a rational industrial programme and its tool for the swift start of the preparation of the national climate fund. Some of its funding would come from the state. Ordinary Finns must also be given the opportunity to participate in the investment. Mr President! For the central parliamentary group, the economy is not an absolute value. Nor are we proposing reforms for the sake of reforms. They are the tools to ensure that we are able to take care of the smallest, the elderly and the weak in society and to build an equal future for this vast country as a whole. This new red soil raises the lowest family benefits and pensions and improves people’s services in early childhood education, education and care for the elderly. We are making a strong regional policy. The line is different from that of the opposition. As a common concern over government-opposition limits, the rapidly deteriorating economic situation of municipalities and the separation between municipalities should be a common concern. Municipalities are responsible for the majority of people’s services, and all parties are responsible in municipalities. More and more municipalities have become too pregnant to provide social welfare and health care services. That is why the Central Parliamentary Group considers it necessary that the reform of social and health services be carried out on the basis of the provinces during this parliamentary term. Party politics do not do justice to the importance of the matter. We also believe that new medicines need to be found for the development of local government segregation. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u18	Madam President! I would like to offer a warm welcome to Mrs Rantakangas, our friend, Mr Anti, to the families and close ones, both on behalf of themselves and on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group. Madam President! We talk a lot about our debt to our children, to future generations, in this Chamber. Usually, then we talk about the economy and money: the debt that is owed to them. From this point of view, we must do everything we can to get as many Finns as possible to work. This government invests in education and training from early childhood education to universities, research and development, local reconciliation, reform of family leave and employment measures aimed at 60,000 new jobs. This is not a weakening, therefore, but a clear improvement on the current situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u19	Madam President! The current government has reversed Finland. We invest in the future of our children instead of cutting them off. The Government Programme’s economic policy aims to increase well-being. This means ecologically and socially sustainable economic growth, high employment and sustainable public finances. The government's fiscal policy during the planning period 2020 to 2023 is somewhat stimulating, which is justified by the slowdown in growth and uncertainty in the international environment. The key is to improve the conditions for economic growth by stimulating investment in knowledge and innovation, such as by investing in research and product development, skills and raising the educational level of young people. Investment in the development of the transport network and housing and in achieving the objectives of carbon neutrality are also necessary. Mr President! The right-wing opposition here repeats its mantra that the government's economic policy is irresponsible. However, it remains unclear which of the government's contributions are so irresponsible — are investments in early childhood education irresponsible, is it irresponsible to increase the income of the poorest pensioners by EUR 50 per month? The Left Alliance feels that it is irresponsible to imagine that cutting lists would create a sustainable basis for Finland's economic growth and public finances. With regard to the alternative budgets of the current right-wing opposition, it can be said that the coalition would now, instead of a stick, use the bar and right-wing opposition's reverse robinhood policy to cut well-being and spend money again on tax cuts for the well-earned. Mr President! I am glad that this government is investing in knowledge and education. These are important investments in increasing Finland's employment and well-being. Technological development and automation are rapidly changing the economy and the labour market. The impact of technological change, for example, on the number of jobs, is difficult to estimate, but we know that skills requirements are increasing. At the same time, about 15 per cent of young people in each age group are not studying at secondary level, and the share of higher education graduates has been falling over the past ten years. Therefore, the Government's investments in equal opportunities for all and the quality of education are important contributions to Finland's well-being and equality. The introduction of compulsory education almost a hundred years ago was one of the greatest gender equality measures in the history of this country. Now is the time to bring compulsory education into the 2020s and extend it to second grade until the age of 18. At the same time, secondary education will be made completely free of charge, and, for example, vocational education and training will receive EUR 100 million for the recruitment of new teachers and instructors next year. Mr President! By investing in education, research and innovation, we will have a sustainable employment policy. The Government's objective is to raise the employment rate to 75%, and extensive preparations have been launched to achieve this in order to find the most effective employment measures. A resultless stick policy is now being replaced by a sustainable employment policy. We want to help people find a job to live on — not to punish that there is no job. A sustainable employment policy will also be pursued by investing in work capacity and pay support and by reforming social security to remove obstacles to employment. Mr President! The Government is committed to promoting gender equality, including in the budgetary process and in all key reforms. I hope that in the coming years, gender-conscious budgeting will be introduced, which will focus on the budget, economic policy, multiannual frameworks and budgetary governance. International economic organisations, such as the IMF and the OECD, have published recommendations on this. Since the Government’s objective is to make Finland a top country for equality, gender-conscious budgeting would be appropriate to complement the broad budgetary process in the coming years. Mr President! We are a Nordic welfare state and as such are listed among the best societies with indicators of competence, competitiveness and happiness. The cuts in recent years have hit Finns badly, and the investment in education, equality and well-being is really expected. A society in which people have strong trust in one another and in society is unique in the world and worthy of support. To maintain trust, we need a policy that sees all people as equals. That is why the change in direction brought about by this government in Finnish politics is so important. We want to build a bright future for everyone, not for the few. The Left Alliance Parliamentary Group supports the adoption of the budgetary plan.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u20	Värderade Talman! Jag vill på svenska ricksdagsgruppens vägnar uttrycka våra sure tankar till vår upppskattade colleague Antti Rantakangas anhöriga.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u21	Mr President! On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would also like to express my condolences and condolences to the family and loved ones of Antti Rantakangas. Finland's economy has grown in recent years, and the upturn has also had a positive impact on the employment situation. However, economic growth is clearly slowing down after the boom in 2016. The Ministry of Finance estimates that GDP will increase by 1.5% in 2019, by 1% in 2020 and will further slow down towards 0.7% at the end of the planning period in 2023. The Committee on Finance therefore estimates that the general government deficit will increase this year, and it is forecast that the development will continue throughout the spending limits period, with the deficit increasing to around EUR 3.7 billion during the planning period. The debt ratio is expected to increase from 2021 onwards and to exceed the 60% limit in 2022. In its programme, the Rinne Government has stated that, in the normal international economic situation, public finances would be in balance in 2023 and the ratio of public debt to GDP will fall. However, the government does not act in accordance with its programme, but the first decision on the spending limits already shows the impact of the government's economic policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u22	Mr President! I'm sorry about Antti Rantakangas' loss, and my condolences to family and friends. Mr President! I am better at putting teams together than training them, but I am now going to take the opportunity to encourage the government to achieve ever better performances. Success in team sports is primarily based on trust. A person dares to perform even courageously and play with the agreed tactics if he can count on the rest of the team to do the same. Above all, it is important for him to know that even if a mistake occurs, the rest of the team will stand by him. It now seems that, for this government, mutual trust is not as great as it could be. It is a pity, because the whole of Finland is a matter for the government, for all of us. During the stages of the postal strike, it became clear that the government could have a much better common view and backs within which to act. That did not happen, but individual ministers went after loose reels and made solo decisions. One of the reasons for the lack of internal trust is that the board members do not always seem to be sure what their team is. Some of them draw too often whether my team is the government or just some other group, the one who screams outside the field from the bleachers. Mr President! The inner spirit of this government matters, because it is also directly reflected in the trust and the faith of Finns. If even a star fielder does not believe in his own pre-ordained way of playing and frankly leads the game accordingly, neither does the audience believe in victory. There is also a need for credibility in international fields. We're not playing the domestic sub-series. We're playing the European League. The government's internal spirit and its external leadership also matter because Finland is facing a major crisis due to the small number of people employed and the increase in care expenditure for older people. The only thing that can save this is getting people to work. But the government does not yet have enough of such measures. It is also clear in this paper that we are discussing today. So, at the same time, the look should be much further away from following such post strikes or other training matches. The eyes should be in the 2030s and even further away. Finland needs visions of how we will play in the coming decades. Amendments In the operating environment of the post office, there is only a foretaste of the effects of digitalisation. If the government were to use the same energy to think about bigger lines than it is now to keep the working conditions of 700 people unchanged, we would be in safer hands. The government has its own playbook and strategy, i.e. a government program. It's a good paper, but it's too idealistic. That's probably why it's being implemented for a reason or another. The audience whistles, even the government’s own supporters begin to view the performances of the early season as weak. Now we're waiting for leadership and results. I am not the biggest fan of the board composition, but it is currently a Finnish representation team. I encourage it to do its best and even to use spiritual training. I too have often had the situation that the arena is in order, but the team could play better. So I can come sparring if I have to.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u24	Then we will hear Minister Lintilä's reply — five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u25	Mr President! Thank you to the parliamentary groups for their group contributions. I am very pleased that parliamentary groups see the problem in the same way: the problems of debt, the causes of debt, the development of employment and so on. There is certainly a difference of opinion about the means and that is why we should disagree. That is why the government and the opposition are different parties. I don't think it's dangerous in itself. A few comments on the basis of these group talks: Definitely public finances are what I worry about. Of course, what has come up here in relation to the IMF and the Commission and other opinions on JTS must be taken into account. It was also in our own calculations by the Ministry of Finance that there are no employment measures within it, i.e. they are calculated according to each forecast but not including government employment measures. Of course, what is a very big challenge for Finland is the slowing down of world trade. All major forecasting institutions predict a slowdown in world trade. There is still something to be said about next year, but 21 is very obscure and foggy. Let us hope that trade agreements will continue. Free trade through rules is the best support for the Finnish economy at the moment, and hopefully it will not be jeopardised. Employment is the first issue for this government, and that is why in the government programme we have a clear record that no action is excluded in terms of employment. In other words, when the government looks at its own actions and brings them all the time — one can say that the first, in a certain way, comes in the budget supplement that is already being presented today — the government is very critical of the employment measures that achieve the employment objective, because the achievement of the employment objective is absolutely central to our public finances and to the costing of our public finances and welfare services in general. What is needed is the promotion of investment. With regard to them, we are now the first ones on the move, i.e. the so-called double deletion has been introduced, and it is being discussed in Parliament. In general, the entire operating environment for business operations requires stability and predictability, and that is what the Government aims to achieve through its own efforts. We have a very clear record in the government programme that business taxation, for example, will not be tightened. We want to create the environment for companies to be able to employ. In fact, it could be said that three cornerstones are employment promotion, business renewal and the mobilisation of investment — and then public finances on a sound basis, and this will not be achieved by anything other than improving the employment situation. But what we must not forget and which will have a fundamental impact on public finances, especially in the years to come, is to bring our social solutions to the finish line. I am sure that each of us will receive feedback on the very difficult economic situation in the municipalities. If we want to make a difference and if we want to make a difference, then we must jointly take this war to the finish line, because it will enable us to make things easier for the municipalities. It is quite clear that we are not going to have that legislation going to work in the next few years — hopefully even in 23 years there will be an operational movement — but that is how we will be able to create this very difficult whole which, of course, every party here has been doing, including the Movement. In terms of local government finances, our public finances are in a worse condition than the data were still available in the spring, and it will be challenging, because then, of course, in later years indebtedness in relation to GDP and public finances will be very challenging for Finland. Thank you to the groups for these feedbacks.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u26	Now, after this round, we're going to the debat. I would ask those Members who wish to speak in the debate to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u27	Mr President! It is important that the committee's report showed well that the direction has now changed: we look to the future, we invest in employment, growth, education and the livelihood of small people. But, of course, Mr President, there is also the fact that I was curious about these objections, and I was very surprised that the Assembly spoke in its own protest that it should not revitalize, that it was a bad thing. We are talking here about investments in education and care for the elderly, about pension increases, which are, after all, a stimulus. The Coalition Party is very critical of this and, on the other hand, I have not heard them say that this should not be the case. This also refers, for example, to an increase in expenditure: ‘an increase in irresponsible expenditure’. I would now like, Mr President, to see a clear line from the assembly, when such objections are made, that whether or not to invest in education, pensions, the livelihood of a small person,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u28	Mr President! There has been enough talk about this public finances, but I would like to ask the Minister of Finance about household debt, which is probably a problem too. If we go into company loans in a little more detail: At the moment it is quite easy to buy a dwelling when the company loans are already over 70% of the debt-free selling price in many cases. It is a little misleading, and then the financial institution will no longer be able to investigate the real ability of a person to repay a debt. And what is even more wonderful, what I do not understand in any way: how can it be that the debt suddenly turns into deductible income? It concerns precisely these financial charges that are in the housing companies. The first question for investors is whether the housing company pays the company's consideration, which means that the investor can deduct the repayment of the debt from the rental income, i.e. this financial consideration. This is so special, so is it?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u29	Mr President! The Government of Prime Minister Antti Rinte looks a long way when it significantly strengthens investments in the basis for productivity growth, such as education and research, product development, innovation and road and other infrastructure investments. The increase in the employment rate is a key element in the Government Programme that strengthens the income base. It is very important that the bottom line of the budgetary plan is revitalizing. The timing may be right this time. It is very important that the cost-competitiveness that has been hard to achieve is not now being undermined. It is very important that there is patience in the labour market. This need for restraint applies not only to wages, but to all income recipients. Now we have to ask again whether our country has the patience to prosper.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u30	Mr President! It is essential to put a stop to the indebtedness of public finances, as is the government's objective, and employment is, of course, a key tool for this. Now the government needs to pay particular attention to promoting the employment opportunities of both Finnish young people and the elderly and the unemployed who are able to work part-time, and I hope that the Minister of Labour Harakka and the whole government will quickly come up with new ways of bringing all these groups into the labour market quickly. There's no time to lose at all. Mr President! The Finns of Peru are concerned about the demographic and employment development in Finland outside the major growth and urban centres. We call for the government to place its financial and operational investments on an equal footing throughout the country in such a way that Finland as a whole can be considered as a resident, and we are very concerned and we want to pay attention to the constant increase in the price of transport and housing. Unfortunately, the government's actions have not taken away
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u31	Madam President! In this Chamber, like the mantra, the Coalition Party repeats this time at the mouth of Mr Lepomäki that the government's activities will reduce employment by 5000 people, and appeals to the calculations of Parliament's information service. Parliament's Information Service regrets this kind of misinterpretation, and I hope that you will stop embarrassing yourself, because Parliament's Information Service has only reduced the impact of taxation and social security on employment, not all the employment effects. In view of education, early childhood education, research, development work, local reconciliation, the reform of family leave and all the countless employment measures that we are going to take, the result is definitely positive. And your deliberately misleading this calculation does not give a good impression, especially of the speaker himself.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u32	Irade the Talman! On the one hand, we have unemployment, but also a very important problem of confrontation, which, of course, is partly facilitated by the fact that there is now a great deal of investment in education at all levels. In our group speech, we raised the issue of the question of the availability of labour and wondered whether it could be tried at regional level to eliminate it completely and to see over a few years what the consequences would be: what would it have to do with this particular problem of matching and access to the workforce of companies?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u33	Mr President! Indeed, when we talk about this employment rate, it is the government programme as a whole that has been specifically taken into account in the budgetary plan, and unfortunately that 75% is a long way off. At best, this will remain at 73.1, which is based on the fact that this current cyclical trend, of course, will continue to decline and slow down. After all, the opposite can be true. Mr Viitanen spoke of the fact that the coalition would not want to revive. Well, let's take a look at this whole thing. The first is that, in the alternative budget, we are precisely transferring certain training inputs to permanent ones, because we think it is unreasonable to lay off teachers in a few years' time. In addition to this, we will also increase the basic security of low-income pensioners. But we're making real investments. When we talk about future investments, they are investments, and we also make less deficits than the government. It is now a question of the long-term sustainability of public finances, and you are undermining it by 20 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u34	Mr President! Unemployment affects people in many ways. It's not just a matter of living. Work is much more than that: it scratches life, creates social relationships. The employment rate in Finland is even lower than in other Nordic countries. So why not try the same recipes as in the other Nordic countries? We have only a fraction of the staff in employment services for every unemployed person who, with good success in other Nordic countries, helps the unemployed to find work. Mr President! We do not believe in a stickline in the management of employment, as the opposition party's coalition still seems to do. This government is putting more resources into education and through municipal experiments to bring new operating models to employment services. The right to work of the most vulnerable persons will be supported by extending the use of pay subsidies.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u35	Mr President! Finland is a living economy of exports. Of course, the government is not responsible for the gloomy prospects in our export area, but it is up to the government by various means to compensate for the deteriorating economic conditions. Unfortunately, the government does exactly the opposite. The competitiveness of industry and the transport sector is being undermined by national emission targets, which are ambitious. The purchasing power of a normal person is undermined by decisions that increase the cost of living and moving. Private consumption is growing, but it is based on debt. On the other hand, the government does nothing to curb the growth of permanent social security expenditure. Both imports of cheap labour and so-called humanitarian immigration undermine the economic dependency ratio and increase spending in a lasting way. Even an increase in the employment rate in itself will not help if people do not get along with their work or if wages are paid by the state in the form of wage subsidies. Less productive work,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u36	Mr President! The key individual element in the income base of the Government Programme is to raise the employment rate to 75%. The achievement of this objective is necessary in order to achieve the objective of budgetary balance and to achieve a balance between public finances in 2023. The longer term objective is carbon neutrality in 2035. From the point of view of employment, it is very important for us in the centre to have a dialogue with different parties in order to curb climate change by making the most of the sector-specific issues. We do not want to drive industry out of here, but to keep Finland investing in business and business-friendly solutions. We must remember that climate change also creates new jobs. Centralists want to promote the use of research into new technologies. In doing so, we will also, at best, create export products to help other countries combat climate change.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u37	Madam President! Experts both in Finland and abroad are rightly concerned about the direction of our economy. There is a deficit of 3.6 billion in 23 years, and this has not yet taken into account all that this difficult labour market situation will bring, in what way it will continue to be reflected in our export-driven economy. Expenditure is growing faster than income, and it has been increased especially in the front-loaded way, and yet we have care for the elderly, yet we in the youth psychiatry have queues that are growing, and there are no solutions to these big structural issues, such as social welfare or social reform, at all. Employment measures are still waiting for themselves. But, Minister for Finance, I would have liked to ask about this situation in the household sector. The public is particularly concerned at the moment by the fact that the value of property
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u38	Mr President! The important objective is indeed to achieve the 75% employment target, but it is good to bear in mind another important 75% target: According to the Knowledge Prediction Forum, between 2017 and 2035, 1.15 million new employees will be needed, more than half of whom need higher education. It is estimated that the need for high-skilled people in new, emerging jobs will rise to up to 75%. So here is another important figure of 75%, which is really closely linked to our employment objective. It is good that the government is investing in education. In this career, we have started and taken small steps, and it is important to draw attention to the fact that we actually achieve these skills objectives, which means that we will also ensure that the employment objectives are met. It was pretty cold.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u39	Mr President! According to textbooks, the government's fiscal policy is both supportive of the economy and employment and sustaining global demand. In the context of economic uncertainty and low interest rates, the launch of recovery and investment is justified. We do not want to repeat the mistakes that have been seen in Finland in the past, in which over-stretched fiscal policies have exacerbated and prolonged unemployment, weakened the welfare state and weakened the long-term sustainability of the economy. Personally, at least I look forward to stimulating investment in public transport and increasing the production volume of affordable housing in the coming years.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u40	Mr President! There is a lot of talk about employment and how to get employment and the employment rate to 75% and that the central government finances will be balanced at a later stage. What amazes me is that I have not heard any kind of response to the fact that, if it were to happen now that this employment could not be increased by 30,000, then what is to be done? I would like to know what the plans are — always plan B. I would like to know what the plans are — will the same borrowing continue? Because you always get the answer that the employment rate is going to rise. But if it doesn’t — the small chance is that it won’t rise, just a small one.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u41	Madam Speaker! The government's action on ending the state and local government debt cannot be considered credible in any way in listening to this debate. The government still seems to have the main focus on imports of cheap foreign labour, increased EU bureaucracy and climate shocks, while Finland’s global competitor China, on the other hand, is allowed to increase its emissions indefinitely, but is constantly increasing. China is also pursuing an otherwise very aggressive economic policy, as we have seen. Finland should respond independently to this economic policy and invest in the competitiveness of exports.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u44	Mr President! True Finns here are constantly maintaining the myth that the government would somehow attract cheap labour to Finland or promote the use of cheap labour. [From the Group of the Fundamental Finns: It's on your show!]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u45	Mr President! This has now become some kind of favorite topic on the left. The amendment of the directive on posted workers had no impact on Finnish legislation. On the other hand, this reform of the directive was adopted by the European Parliament. Has it solved the problem of cheap labour in Finland? Isn't there cheap labour in here right now?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u46	President! This is a question of you constantly, completely unfoundedly accusing the government of imports of cheap labour. There's no cover for that. You haven't shown any evidence. But, Mr Halla-aho, it is in black and white that you have opposed the eradication of cheap labour, the rules of the game. And you were on the front line with Poland, Latvia, Lithuania and Hungary — the very countries from which cheap labour comes. And this is what you won't get away from.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u47	Madam Speaker! The whole of your starting point is very misleading, because if you look at situations like Posti in Finland now, then it is precisely because there is a huge admission of foreigners.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u48	Madam President! I have often praised the Finns here in many debates, but unfortunately this is not the case. How dare you say that our government program says that cheap labor is being lured here?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u49	Mr President! With regard to this budgetary package, Mr Järvinen made quite a serious accusation here that this serious issue, namely that the Lintilä draft budget will reduce employment by 5,000, would not be correct in view of changes other than changes in taxes and transfers. Well, what are the others? These are changes in expenditure on education, infrastructure, care for the elderly, where we all make clearly more substantial improvements. We will have substantial improvements in education permanently, we will not be firing teachers in three years' time, we will be hiring them permanently, we will put 3 billion in infrastructure instead of 40 million in government and so on. If these were to be included,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u52	Madam President! There is no theme or subject that the Finns of Finland would not try to translate into immigration, because you have no views, no content or knowledge of any theme. Perhaps you were ashamed of your own group statement,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u58	Mr President! This debate is also an opportunity for protests from the opposition, and they are commendablely long here. It has not yet been addressed here that the demands and goals of the people of Peru are very embraceful of the worlds. Right at the beginning of the protest, it is required that ‘pension and socialsecuritysystems are reformed so that poorparticipation and exclusion will be eliminated in the world of Finland’s economic and social digitalisation, safety and social
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u64	Mr President! Do you think we could agree that we don't talk about cheap labor here? These are mainly people who come here to work and build a better future for themselves and their loved ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u67	Madam President! The hillside government is making a sustainable, fair and human-oriented policy that is quite the opposite of the previous period. This government also takes care of the most vulnerable people, just the opposite of last year's coalition, of which the government's finance minister was. So the hillside government brings people faith in the future, the direction has changed. Just as the Coalition Party said, the direction of the Coalition Party is quite different from that of the Government. I fully agree with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u72	Mr President! In his group speech on employment policy, the Social Democrats said that it is like a marathon. That is true, but it is worth a drink to go in the right direction, not in the wrong direction, and this time, unfortunately, this government is going in the wrong direction. This has been criticised by both the EU, the IMF and the Economic Policy Review Council, and so on. You have talked about the fact that during this term of government you want to invest a great deal in researched information. The Bank of Finland states: ‘The survey datareferencing that employment can beincreased by increasing the level ofunemployment security, by removing the additional unemployment security day-to-day unemployment pipelines by reforming the family-free system By the way, all these means can be found in the alternative budget for the Coalition Party. If you don't believe us, believe the experts.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u73	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Investing in preventive measures makes sense both humanly and economically. This also applies to the prevention of mental health problems. The Swedish Parliamentary Group stresses that investments made at a sufficient time pay themselves back multiple times, for example, at lower care costs, less school drop-outs, higher employment rates and, above all, as a better welfare for citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u74	Mr President! — I am trying to make it enough, and I am confident that in your great wisdom you will perhaps give another speech later. Mr President! I'll go over it quickly. First of all, Mr Eestilä: in the autumn, the Household Over-indebtedness Task Force gave me its own job and it has been, or is now, in the consultation process. I would encourage all of you — it is openly stated — to take a stand on it. It's extremely important. This is an extremely important question. You referred to the deductibility of corporate loans: We'll find out next year. We have a clear entry in the Government Programme. But these company loans are going up — I think about 14% of all loans are company loans, there is talk of a relatively large amount. Representative for Savio: Yes, the government has a very clear position and line — the whole of Finland as a resident, the possibility to live and try to live in Finland as a whole. Representative Halla-aho: this budget will have a growth-supporting stance for next year, and that is what the IMF made the comments that they consider to be correct, and we are talking about next year's budget. Well, then, Mr Essayah raised a very important issue, namely the value of this property — an extremely important issue, it is good to have a debate on it. It is related to a great many things: debt, labour mobility, property taxation, etc. This is an issue that I am sure will have to be discussed, and it should be kept on the agenda. And I'm sure we'll be back on that Ministry of Finance to see if there's any specific measures that should be taken. However, I must say from the beginning that all that was missing was the classic locusts, the evil that this government had done in six months. [Sari Essayah’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u79	Let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u80	Madam President! Folding debt and improving the economy are key issues for this parliamentary term, and that is where job creation is at the heart of it. This is where the government has quickly started. Wage subsidies will be increased, the threshold for employment of the first employee will be lowered for entrepreneurs and the problem of matching will be resolved. This will give the economy little room for manoeuvre and boost both reforms and future investment. The age of compulsory education can be extended, the age of care for the elderly finally realised, and the social centres of the future are being promoted. That opposition to the extension of compulsory schooling is, of course, incomprehensible. Today, we no longer work at the level of comprehensive school — jobs that are the job of a man or a girl have left this society — but we need secondary education for our young people, either upper secondary school or vocational education at least.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u81	Madam President! Minister Lintilä has just referred to the government's stance for growth, and yes, it supports the growth of debt, it supports the growth of problems, the increase in our expenses. There is talk of knowledge and intelligence here, and it is incomprehensible that you even imagine that climate leadership and free immigration would balance our economy. Then, in this entire room, all parties except the True Finns have gone into such an unbridled pursuit of carbon dioxide, which is incredibly expensive. Are you aware that even if the EU and the US as a whole stopped flying, stopped driving and everyone became vegan, this would only have marginal significance in this resistance to climate change? This increase in the debt burden will also be achieved by forcing these climate investments. So you are forcing new technologies, the introduction of new technologies, even insecure and incomplete ones, faster than the normal investment cycle. Here's what's going on.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u82	Madam President! It is natural resources that are the key source of economic growth when it comes to entrepreneurship, employment. It will bring its foundation to us on the side of the forest industry. The forest industry is able to support and promote these investments in highly processed products, such as plastic substitutes, fabric substitutes, fuels and so on, of course, also renewable energy, which is strongly linked to the forestry sector. Both of these create jobs and economic growth strongly. The second is Finnish food production. Keeping it strong, predictable, invests there, we have a lot of leverage on our hands. And when we talk about climate policy, climate leadership, we see it precisely through the investments that we can also export to the technology by selling to the countries that pollute. This will enable us to improve our own export industry and our economy in the long term.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u83	Mr President! When asked by Finns, the government has a growing credibility problem not only acutely in managing state ownership control but also more extensively in managing the Finnish economy. And when we had the opportunity in committee to consult experts from different sectors, the feedback on the lack of government employment measures was absolutely stunning. I would therefore like to ask — if you do not believe the opposition and take our options seriously — how is it possible that the government, which says that it trusts experts and researched information, completely bypasses both the international evaluators from the IMF to the European Commission and the domestic ones, such as the Bank of Finland and the Economic Policy Review Council? Fortunately, however, there are alternatives to this government policy. For example, in the alternative budget of the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party next year, more resources, more money for education and more sustainable, more permanent than what the government is doing. In addition, it is more environmentally responsible, leans on
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u84	Mr President! Here, the Finnish people's circle will again become an understatement of climate policy, government climate action and the need for them. [JaniMäkeläarvo] It is extraordinary to speak first of all about knowledge-based decision-making and then forget the very unambiguous message of the scientific community that there is no business as usual. Either we manage to bring global emissions down steeply or we face huge and ever worse effects and effects of change. It is extraordinary that, instead of seeking solutions here, it sounds like there is a message coming from there that you want to maintain Finland's dependence on foreign fossil energy and prevent Finland from being in any way a winner in this kind of global, necessary change.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u85	Mr President! Now I have to say that we have a structural difference here. We accept climate change. We want the work to be done by those who can influence it. If you want publications from the scientific community, look — China, India, the United States are the most polluting in the world. Why does Finland, as President of the EU, not take real leadership in the EU? We have ambition for Finnish people and our misery, even though our influence is of a grade. For example, why does Prime Minister Rinne not go to the EU and say: ‘Climate-friendly countries! They pollute too much, they use child labour. This is not acceptable for the EU.’ We have a completely different starting point for this. We think about it in a way that needs to be done where it affects. Even if we catch up with Finland today, it does not matter if these polluting countries do not do their part. And you were absolutely right that globally — but when our actions are not global, they are directed at Finns. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u86	Mr President! I would like to respond directly to this special argument by Mr Sea:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u91	Mr President! Mr Kiljunen now forgets that Finland is one of the most important countries in the world to do these things. We agree with what many Members have said here, for example, that good technologies are being developed and other things that can be exported to the world, but you said that my speech was extraordinary. Well, that's your point of view. In my opinion, it is very sensible to require action from the person who may have a bearing on it. For example, the Finnish Presidency has gone to the point where we are making a fuss about climate leadership in Finland and the Finnish purses, when it is already tight here, and we are not going there to demand it. For example, we have agreed to a completely absurd burden sharing within the EU. Contaminated countries are allowed to continue to pollute, and Finland will reduce. Do you think that's fair? In my opinion, it is not fair to pay for what other countries have done with Finnish, well-functioning activities. Yes, we must insist that the polluters play their part. We can't even handle it if we want to.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u92	Irade the Talman! The Finns speak of the competitiveness of our industry. Listen to our industry, listen to our companies. It is not by chance that Climate Leadership Council is full of Finnish companies who want us to do these things, draw a road map, show where the paint is standing, and guide our operations accordingly. They understand that cleantech is definitely a growing industry. They understand that if we are in the front line, then we will create a domestic market that can strengthen, which can then be used to push for exports. As far as emissions from Finland are concerned, they are twice as high as emissions from Sweden. We are not even a model country at European level. We too have something to improve, but just as Mr Kiljunen said if we do not do anything, then there is no point in demanding anything from the Chinese, Indian, African. We'll have to show you, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u93	Madam President! Here, colleagues from the left have done everything they can to blame the assembly instead of making their own constructive proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u96	Madam President! Lipponen's time must have passed 20 years ago. [Base Finns Group : Jasenhua!]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u97	Mr President! I too must say that I miss Paavo Lippo in that sense that he once said that Eastern Finland starts with Pasila. I also think that this is a good position for this debate on the east track, which is where I very much support him. I would like to say about this municipal economy and the social economy, because it is absolutely central to this public finances, that, first of all, 47% of our local government expenditure — almost 70% of each municipality’s expenditure — is social expenditure, and it tells us how important it is that we get the social welfare reform done so that the municipalities can then concentrate on the resources they have, including how they develop their own municipality. I consider social welfare reform and stable municipal policy to be the most important issues for the next few years, and I would actually like to ask the Finns of Finland: What is your policy on local government and what do you think about social reform, can you support it? I very much hope that you will be able to support the government in this future social reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u98	Madam President! Indeed, Mr Vehviläinen, yes, the war will play a large part in the future and in this reign, and it would be very important and significant for us to be told what is coming. You asked me about the municipal policy line. I'm very worried. In October, we received information that 30 municipalities have negotiations in which care staff are put out. I can't believe this. By the way, when you are bringing in a medical guarantee that increases the number of medical staff, and there is going to be a nursing appointment, nurses are needed, and a completely contradictory message is being sent out of those municipalities: people are being put out. And it concerns whether there may be a labour force from abroad, a low-paid labour force for the care sector. This would be extremely worrying. So what's the sod bringing? You too, Minister, pointed out in your speech that it will see what the financial situation is, whether it will be changed. That funding base has been completely inadequate, and I think that this funding will be intensified in the future. What do you say to what you bring us?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u99	Mr President! The discussions here sometimes accuse the current government, sometimes the previous one, when one should certainly look at the overall picture of what we can do for today and for the future. I also share Mr Vehviläinen's concern about these municipalities. I mean, the economies of the municipalities are divisive. Of course, some are doing fine, but in many municipalities the economy is becoming even more difficult, for a number of reasons. A smaller number of municipalities than expected for next year increased their municipal taxes. More, however, it indicates that most municipalities already have municipal tax in their hands.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u102	Mr President! There is talk of dumping the working conditions of workers with foreign background being some kind of automation, as if the majority of Finnish employers did not want to adhere to fair working conditions. Of course, this is not the case. The employee should never be blamed for trampling on working conditions, and the majority of Finnish entrepreneurs and employers are fully responsible in this respect. It is up to us as legislators to ensure that those few who do not act responsibly then end up responsible for these barbarisms and circumventions of the rules, and therefore a strong trade union movement and strong legislation are the best protection for the worker. That is why this government intervenes in underpaid employment and precisely in the new situations where people are forced to be transferred from employee status to entrepreneurship, when there is no longer any security against illness or other potential challenges, there is no security for retirement. It is precisely these new discriminatory phenomena that are on the top of the agenda of this government. Now I'd be interested to hear,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, let us take a few more debatable remarks and then Minister Lintila, and then we shall move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u104	Mr President! Today, when one of the comrades has passed away, it's too bad. There has been some discussion here about the contradiction between the rejection of climate change by citizens and Finns. In reality, if you look at the whole, this government programme aims to make it a gold mine for Finns in the future to reject climate change. We have one company in Lappeenranta called Solar Foods, which today is able to arrest carbon dioxide from the climate, and its potential is about gigaton. It converts carbon dioxide into protein, to eat it. Other innovations of this kind are already starting to go from Finland to that world enormously. China is interested in how the thousand coal-fired power plants under construction there could be wasted with Finnish technology in such a way that they would not. We have three Finnish companies,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u105	Mr President! I understand that if the right is of the opinion that you receive EUR 700 per month, you must not call it cheap work, but I am surprised that the left is of the opinion that this is the case. But perhaps the action on the government's underpaid salary is missing, that the person cannot work in Finland for 700 euros, as was said yesterday in the program on Yleisradio, how Ali, the postman, had to live. Here, many government representatives always call for pay subsidies. After all, wage subsidies can be a useful social policy measure, but there is no employment instrument, as is known. If it is used, it should clearly be used more effectively for those who are hard-to-work and long-term unemployed and to support the employment of those who are able to work part-time. But this is social policy and should not be confused with the employment measures required to balance public finances. I would like to know from the government how much this pay subsidy is intended to contribute precisely as a net cost. How much does this work, and how much does it cost? In addition, once again, when Sweden has been raised as a good example, I would like to ask the government:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u106	Mr President! In a few contexts, education and compulsory schooling have been raised, and that is a good thing. The Government Programme says that the compulsory education age is being extended. My point is now that if and when this happens, catch those young people who cannot read or write at the end of their present compulsory education age. They account for about 10% of the total age group, and their chances of access to education and, consequently, working life are completely non-existent. And — I see that heads are already rising and people are rising — it is not the fault of this government, it is not the fault of the previous one, it is a long-term result, and we must find solutions together. A further question for the Minister: Today news came that the number of unemployed job seekers has increased by 4.9 per cent in Pirkanmaa. What kind of ideas does this give rise to in you, and what kind of measures is the worrying figure in one of the most developed regions?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u107	Mr President! The previous government was assisted by a favourable international economic situation. It was the wind that led to an improvement in employment. In the past, in terms of stick policy, I referred to cutting policy, to friction and to the active model. The active model cut, but it didn't work. The IMF estimates that increasing fiscal stimulus will support demand in the short term. The IMF welcomes the commitment of the government to increase public expenditure on education, employment, infrastructure and climate policy. As Mr Lepomäki well knows, in the Keynes book Employment, Interest and Money, published in 1936, and in numerous other books since then, it has been stated that countercyclical fiscal policies can combat or mitigate the recession and unemployment. This has also been proven to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u108	Mr President! Finland is not in recession. This budgetary plan also does not foresee a recession, and you are already reviving, you are already reviving. What will you do when the recession, let alone the recession, strikes? We've got everything...
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u111	Let us take Minister Lintilä's speech at this point and then go on to the list of speakers for a while and see if there will be another seat for the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u112	Mr President! Brief comments: firstly, Mrs Ranne, if you had listened to my speech, I referred to the IMF report that our 2020 budget is a growth-supporting stance, and the IMF considered it to be well-measured. So this was a direct quote from their report. Then there has been a lot of talk here about climate change and related... — it is quite clear that it is the biggest challenge on a global scale, the greatest threat, but there is also an opportunity. We have a climate coalition of finance ministers, which has been established a few years ago, originally 24 countries, currently 51 countries. I am chairing it with my colleague in Chile. My predecessor, Mr Orpo, was the previous president. In the world, this attracts a great deal of interest. In fact, it is a matter of bringing best practice to different countries. There are growing economies, there are, could you say, developed economies, and there are common models. And it should also be borne in mind that if we look globally, this climate change is the only big driver for investment in the world. In my previous job as Minister of Industry, I may have gone through 23 countries, various export promotion trips, and what was of interest to Finland and what is sought in the world was competence, energy competence, waste making energy, and so on. And that is what we have a lot to offer specifically in the fight against climate change. It's a threat if we don't treat it, but it's a chance for us. Mr Marttinen, employment measures: yes, we are going on schedule and according to the signs of steps. Then I have to say to the representatives of Purra and Kiuru that it is perhaps better that you ask the Minister for Labour these questions, and I do not really want to go to that Ministry of Labour's property. That is what Mr Salmonkoski must be told that, yes, last season the world economy grew, but the government did do the right thing, so it was involved. Representative to Lepomäki: we may have a little, mildly resuscitation. I might be able to guess that if we were to count by some 0.5, it would be refreshing, but with this information it would be pretty good for this situation. And, of course, that is always the relevant question, what am I going to ask, for example, from the financial side, the central bank: what should we do if there are really bad times? In other words, we need a rigorous economic policy at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u114	Let us now move on to the list of speakers for a moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u115	Mr President! My condolences to the family and the parliamentary group in the Centre for the loss of Mr Rantakanka. The Government’s Government’s budgetary plan defines the economic room for manoeuvre and its framework conditions for the Government’s term of office. The government's economic policy clearly states that its objective is to increase prosperity, which in practice requires sustainable growth, both economically, socially and ecologically. The conditions for growth are created through a long-term, forward-looking policy. This means that both short-term and long-term effectiveness will be sought from the investments now being undertaken. In addition to investment, export promotion and safeguarding domestic demand, one of the most important measures to balance public finances is to increase the employment rate. The uncertainties that reflect the prospects for the future stem from the turmoil of the global economy. Therefore, there are legitimate concerns about the achievement of this objective, which the government is prepared to address. Moreover, for the first time, it will include in its spending limits plan a mechanism of EUR 1 billion in exceptional circumstances to prepare for very serious crisis situations. The Finnish Central Audit Office's fiscal surveillance report is the first independent external evaluation of the economic policy guidelines of the Government Programme. It highly commends the objectives of economic policy, the choice of active fiscal policy and future investment. This fact has not come up anywhere so far. Of course, the report is concerned that Finland may be violating the existing preventive part of the Stability and Growth Pact next year. The estimated risk does not come as a surprise. There has already been a debate with the Commission. However, the situation is not unique, since this debate was last held between 2013 and 2017. At that time, however, it was a much more serious problem, an increase in the debt ratio beyond the critical limit. The possible deviation is the result of future investments and the ex-ante implementation of expenditure in the Government Programme. The risk is therefore related to an active fiscal policy which, despite the criticism of the opposition, has also been supported by important economic policy experts. A mildly revitalizing policy is pre-eminently justified in a situation of uncertainty where growth is dwindling and domestic demand needs to be strengthened. Finland continues to fulfil the deficit and debt criteria of the Treaty. However, particular attention must be paid to the situation and the seriousness it requires. Mr President! In the context of the budgetary plan, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy paid particular attention to the importance of innovation, education and knowledge for the sustainability and growth of the economy. Research, development and innovation activities are the most effective way of increasing productivity and creating new jobs from individual policies. In particular, the Committee would like to thank the Committee for its considerable investment in R & D funding, which has collapsed in relation to the competing countries. Next year, funding will finally increase and exceed the EUR 2 billion limit. We also think it is excellent that most of the one-off investments in the future are directed towards the Business Finland package and the promotion of the bio- and circular economy. In its opinion, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs stresses the link between future investment and the objective of carbon neutrality in 2035. Energy transition is not only an indispensable tool but also a key enabler of sustainable growth. The Government’s sustainable growth strategy, export growth programme and entrepreneurship strategy are among the most important programmes in the state’s industrial policy. It is very important that they are synchronised with the allocation of RD funding and the road map and energy and climate policy. Measures to increase employment are currently being prepared and concrete decisions have already been taken. The same applies to the impact assessment. It is an undeniable fact that it is challenging to establish their effectiveness at this stage, in the context of the first budgetary plan. The Government will assess the new actions to be presented in the spring budget debate at the beginning of the year. I propose that we hold a meaningful and active debate on the effectiveness of employment measures at that time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u116	Mr President! First of all, I support Mrs Rante's motion on the objection of the Finns of Peru and the statement relating to it. Secondly, I will correct the earlier factual error in the way the Finns behaved in the vote of the Postal Act. So we voted for the rejection of the Postal Act. There are many problems with the budgetary plan, but the fundamental problem is that these calculations are not based on facts. The economy, contrary to what is claimed, will not grow in the next few years, but will even shrink at its worst. There's nothing the government can do to stop this. Finland is linked to the problems of other countries in the euro, and the government is increasingly tying us to the euro and the associated guarantee liabilities. That is not something we can escape from with the appeal of this government. By means of government, employment is not increasing but is deteriorating. As the best of this or, I would say, the worst piece of work recently, the fact that, although the government is practically sitting on both sides of the negotiating table on the issue of the postal strike, it is still not ready. Mr President! A few comments which, in my view, are particularly poor in the government's proposal for a budgetary plan — these are by no means the only bad things. Firstly, the EU, the EU and the EU. The government does not even bother to take a proper position that, in this period of the budgetary plan, Finland’s EU membership fee will increase significantly, and at the same time the availability will deteriorate, resulting in a net increase of up to a billion euros, even in these years, and that the situation will not be able to change by 28. Where is the money for this European development aid? Another issue that is poorly addressed is transport and climate policy. The world’s climate will not move from it, even if the Finns stop doing everything. We simply cannot afford unilateral climate action. We need to ensure our competitiveness. It should not be abandoned to more polluting countries. The third issue is the reduction of the population in Finland and immigration on the one hand. The government does not have any real measures to improve the birth rate in Finland, not enough money or, in particular, an attitude that could influence it. Nor does the government have measures to promote non-social immigration. After all, humanitarian immigration does not improve our dependency ratio, but actually worsens it. Last but not least, I would like to raise some of the social issues that have already been mentioned by others. Sote is a cost question for billions in Finland. What is the government going to do about the social welfare reform? We have not yet heard anything other than that the same old provincial model is haunting the central party government as a threshold issue. Otherwise, Parliament will be completely blinded. Which way are we going with this mess? What happens to the cost increase threatening municipalities — several per cent more than economic growth. What does the government intend to offer to resolve this? Are we gonna do anything about this over the next four years?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u117	Mr President! We must put an end to the indebtedness of public finances. We cannot transfer the bill from today's consumption to our children. But that is exactly what this debt government and the unemployment government are doing. In the budgetary plan, you are committed to responsible fiscal policy. However, we have a different understanding of what fiscal responsibility is. It is that public finances are becoming stronger and not weaker. It is to ensure that Finland is not on the Greek road to drive down the slope. Independent experts also have a completely different view of responsible policy with the government. Independent experts one after another have made exceptionally strong criticisms of the government's economic and employment policy. The opinions and hearings of experts were, in a word, painful in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. The opinion of the Economic Policy Evaluation Council states: ‘The Government’s fiscal policy can be seen as a lifeline. The government does not justify a revitalising fiscal policy in the context of a cyclical situation, nor does the perception of the current cyclical situation justify a recovery." In short, you will revive when there is no justification for doing so, and you yourself will not be able to justify this solution in a credible way. Good Government: Why do you wet the lawn in the rain? Furthermore, the evaluation Council notes that the overall achievement of the objectives set for economic policy appears to be rather uncertain. According to the Evaluation Council, the Government’s objective of raising the employment rate is in line with the correction of the sustainability gap, but the use of additional revenue from employment growth to permanently increase expenditure does not reduce the sustainability gap in public finances. But even employment is not sufficiently rising. After all, your own budgetary plans and the Ministry of Finance estimate that the employment rate will remain at 73 per cent in 2023. It is not just a question of calculating Parliament's information service, but of reducing employment in your budget; it is a question of not achieving your own employment objective, even according to your own plan. How much longer can it take to introduce the means of employment that have been ready for your own officials in the ministries already in time? According to the Bank of Finland’s opinion, ‘the research datareferencing that employment can beincreased by increasing the level ofunemployment security, by removing the additional unemployment security dayline unemployment The opinion of the Institute of Economic and Monetary Affairs states that labour market openings, which have been heard by the government, are mainly detrimental to employment. Indeed, it is as if you do not even want to improve employment. The Coalition Party has set out in its alternative budget the means by which, according to expert estimates, more than 60,000 new employees would be employed in Finland and not the 5,000 unemployed who, according to the calculation of the Parliamentary Information Service, are bringing your first budget to Finland. Please: these means of the Assembly are therefore based on expert assessments, including those of the working groups of your own ministries, and are at your disposal. You've given in your government program. [Request for reply from Ms MariaGuzenina]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u118	Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's not go to the debat immediately again. Let's wade this speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u119	Mr President! When I did not get the floor at that appropriate point, I could say a few words about this alternative budget for the Assembly. This increase in employment is, after all, built on tax reductions in earned income, and tax reductions in earned income will probably have time and needs, but they are not suitable for economic policy; economists are quite unanimous on this. After all, the situation is that timing cannot be achieved by these means and encounters are quite random. We have much better ways of pursuing economic policy when it is needed. Of course, it can also be argued that when it is needed, because the cyclical situation can also be successfully predicted. For example, the construction of transport infrastructure, i.e. the construction of roads and other means of transport, is a very effective means of managing cyclical policy, and timing can be done quickly with additional budgets, for example. After all, the government has been doing so since June, perhaps a little in anticipation of not going into a low economic situation. Then I would like to thank this Rinte government for looking a long way. It will strengthen investment in productivity growth, which is perhaps our most problematic point. Productivity has not grown in Finland as it should, and that is why the Rinte government invests in education, research, product development, various innovations and then also in this fairway. In order to respond to the labour shortage of enterprises, the government is investing significantly in education and skills at different levels of education. In addition, continuous learning of those in work and training of the unemployed will be promoted. The use of pay support will be increased by simplifying and speeding up the pay support process. The aim is to reduce red tape for employers by removing the separate application for payment of pay subsidies. Of course, pay subsidies give rise to a wide range of ideas, but in the private sector, as stated in the report of the Committee on Finance, it has also been possible to achieve sustainable jobs through wage subsidies. The aim is to promote labour mobility by making half of the removal costs paid by the employer duty-free. Then we will have a research cooperation incentive which will probably mean that the company will receive an additional 50 % reduction, calculated from the actual company's R & D expenditure, will be allowed to reduce as if this amount of air, and this is intended to encourage cooperation with universities and universities, among other things. This will probably contribute to the objective of achieving at least the 3% of GDP in those R & D expenditures. Then there is this double depreciation of machinery, equipment and other movable fixed assets. We'll see what it means. Some experts have denied its importance, but that is what previous governments have tried to use, and that is a means which, in the long term, does not even reduce tax revenues, it simply periodicises them. This double depreciation would now also extend to services and agriculture. There has been a debate here about the reform of social security. I would like to say that this social and health care reform is our most important structural reform. It's very special, and it should be done there. The situation is that we have excellent health care, but there is room for productivity gains. I really hope that if nothing else can be achieved, at least this reform of health care will be achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u120	Mr President! As several speakers have pointed out, this budgetary plan is aimed specifically at solving the problems of the future, and that really is in order, because next year we will be entering a new decade and now we will determine the direction to be taken in that decade. What do we use the first euros for? This government intends to use those euros to build the first carbon-neutral welfare state in the world. That is our main objective. Finland has been able to build the best social models in the world before, and it is good to remember that these structures have not been built in those easy times. On the contrary, it is in times of crisis that a strong welfare state has been needed the hardest and most painful of all, and it is then that we have been able to do this construction. It should be remembered that this modern, strong welfare state, which guarantees prosperity and happiness, has been built on the ruins of two world wars. At the same time, however, it was built on cheap fossil energy. It was thought that there were no limits to the consumption of natural resources. We thought we'd find cheap oil forever. Now it is quite clear that this time is over. Firstly, there are no such resources, and secondly, we know that there is a need to limit their use. Even the toughest capitalists in the United States are now pulling their investments out of the fossil economy, and they are not doing it out of good faith, but because it has been identified that the fossil economy is about to collapse with the depletion of natural resources alone. That is why the welfare state must begin to be built on a new basis. This objective has not been chosen because this change is somehow easy, fast or free, but because ‘must act’ to borrow the climate. The essence of the goal is clear. We need to reduce emissions and poverty at the same time, and instead of taking one big leap now, so every year — as outlined in this budgetary plan — we are moving towards a sustainable future. Then it is essential that this change does not mean giving up; it means getting something better. At the same time, therefore, it is worth remembering that the sustainability of a welfare state depends on people — people’s well-being, people’s competence, and people’s ability to work. It is by investing in people that this sustainable basis is being built. That is why this government will begin the reparation of education and systematically raise the educational level of Finns. At least secondary education is guaranteed for each person. The reasons for this are, of course, human, but also economic. Less than half of those who have attended comprehensive school alone are employed, as four out of five of those with higher education have been employed. That is why there are really strong reasons for investing in the ability of more and more Finns to achieve a high level of education just because of employment. Another issue that is directly reflected in employment is the investment in mental health. Mental health problems have been the main cause of disability throughout my lifetime. This is in no way acceptable, neither humanly nor economically, and that is why this government is investing especially in low-threshold services and in ensuring that everyone gets to treatment on time. At the same time, emphasis is placed on the fact that no one has an acute concern about whether money is enough for food, medicine and rent. We know that poverty is not activating, it is discouraging, and that is why we must ensure that social protection is actually in the future. That is why this government is embarking on reforming social security rather than going down the path of cuts in the opposition's alternative budgets. At the same time, there is a real effort here to ensure that biodiversity is taken care of when climate action is taken. In particular, this is an activity that cannot be done anywhere other than in Finland. Finnish nature is not protected elsewhere than in Finland, so it would be nice for every patriotic person to cherish Finnish nature and find those euros there. This government will find the euro: we will put 100 million into the protection of Finnish nature. At the same time, it should be remembered that there is no ‘some other’ person to solve the world’s problems. If strong international action is called for, then strong international cooperation should be fostered. For example, if you are not prepared to give the EU any power to negotiate or agree on common lines for climate taxes, then it is pointless to reject the proposals of domestic measures by saying that ‘yesEU will,yesEU will.’ At the same time, it cannot be said that these must be dealt with internationally and then, in another turn, resist all means.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u121	Mr President! First of all, I have to say that I understand that public spending creates the success factors of the future in this country. That is why this government has really taken action to correct the last government's regrettable cuts in education and training, and I am pleased about that. It is good that we are also discussing economic policy here insofar as investment in transport projects is hardly ever due to the national need and its infrastructure for the future, mistimed in terms of the economic cycle. The investments in everything that we need to do in our business and people's mobility are, for the future, like money being put into the bank. Indeed, this government invests in education and wants the public authorities, which make it possible to provide training, not to trample on the salaries of those people, but to provide resources to ensure that teachers' holiday money can be paid properly in the municipalities. Perhaps one might think of using a few words about the way the Coalition Party wants to look at this in its alternative budget. It focuses on cutting the very least-incomed and increasing the income flow of the well-incomed. The Coalition Party has repeatedly criticised this government in advance for its debt-taking and has made it clear how badly and recklessly this government is using its public finances and its budgetary powers. It makes me sad when you think about how the assembly, in the tone of the interlude, has shown in these discussions how we think and do everything from grandchildren, leaving them with a great debt. According to them, the government steals from children when we may be in debt to restore subjective day care rights, while reducing group sizes, investing in pre-school education and making secondary education free of charge. The emphasis and frosting of debt is also placed on the fact that the burden will become unsustainable as the age groups fall and there will be fewer debt payers in the future. What should be understood about that thinking? The Coalition Party does not approve of investing in the future of our children, but blindly frustrates how bad debt is and robs our future grandchildren. Should we now accept in this government that the decreasing age group?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u122	Mr President! First of all, I am in favour of the representative. The motion made by Mr Östman, in accordance with protest 3 and then also the proposals for objections contained in it. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister In that debate, Lintilä answered my question quite satisfactorily about what is now to be done about these declining property values across Finland. He described how it really does not only affect the value of the individual’s property, which you are now sure to have in the protection of every person’s own property, but also affects employment and, for example, whether it can be moved after work to something that has an impact on, say, the ability to borrow and regional development, things of this kind. However, if I have understood the Minister's words correctly, I hope that we will also look for solutions which, in this situation, would understand that this is a very important element of regional policy and can influence the development of regional policy in this country in a way that we may not yet understand in depth. There has also been debate and debate here about this calculation of Parliament's information service, which shows that now that the government is pursuing this policy, we will have 5,000 fewer jobs next year, so that it would be almost better if we did nothing, so there would be no damage in comparison. There has been a great deal of controversy here as to whether these figures of Parliament's information service are correct or incorrect. Was there a line of greens that said that only taxation and social security are taken into account here? Well, when it comes to the labour market and how people think about it when they go into the labour market, then taxation and social security are the most important elements when we understand that, in accepting work, the incentives and, on the other hand, the avoidance of these traps in the main area are related to taxation and social security, because they have an impact on what is left over from the salary. That is why in all these reforms the Christian Democrats have now particularly wanted to speed up this reform of social security too. It is certainly the case, as Mr Vehviläinen rightly pointed out here, that social reform is one of the most important, if not perhaps the most important, structural reform that we have, and it is particularly important on the municipal side. But then, if we look at each person’s own economy, this social reform and its effects on the acceptance of work and then on the ability and opportunity of companies to employ is absolutely central. So both these reforms are urgently needed, but at the moment there is no prospect that we will be receiving these proposals from the government, and in that sense it would be very important to hurry both. We in the Christian Democrats have brought our own, encouraging basic safety proposal and we hope that on that basis the matter can be taken forward. Here Mr Kiviranta also expressed an interesting view that tax policy is not a good economic policy. I have come to know Kiviranta as such a sharp economic thinker, and he is an expert in taxation, but he was a bit squeamish about why he thinks that taxation is not also a cyclical instrument. However, this government itself is doing, among other things, through these added depreciation rights, which is also tax policy, a cyclical policy, and, for example, I can fully support this proposal from the government. It is of the utmost importance that we should then also be able to create a stimulus for our investment. I personally see that tax policy is also a cyclical policy. Of course we need infrastructure investments, for example, they are also important, but infra-investments often take place in a slightly longer time perspective. However, taxation can quickly influence household hand-held income. Indeed, this government has also made a tax policy, for example, in an attempt to influence the fact that the revenue in hand would not be reduced, which, as I recall, had also led to these tax reductions by a couple of hundred million. But all in all we have to say about this budgetary plan, as I have already pointed out in my own debate, that this is a problem because it lacks these future employment measures and then these major structural reforms, that is, social and social reform, which would be absolutely essential.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u123	Mr President! This government makes a different economic policy than the previous one. The objective of economic policy is to increase prosperity. We want economic growth to benefit everyone, not just those who are already doing well. The International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the OECD have come to the conclusion that without care for people's health and well-being, the economy is not doing well either. The welfare economy is also one of the top themes of the Finnish Presidency of the European Union. Prevention of illness, maintenance of working capacity, gender equality and care for continuous learning are examples of actions that clearly support economic growth. People’s well-being and economic growth affect one another. Human well-being is a prerequisite for both economic growth and social and economic stability. On the other hand, economic growth increases the chances of improving the health and well-being of all people. In the welfare economy, the aim is to keep everyone involved in society and to ensure equal opportunities for all. The welfare economy means that public funds are invested to improve people's well-being. As a result, people suffer less, work and pay taxes. When a person is healthy and well-being, he also needs less social and health care services. This is important for the national economy when the population is ageing. In the welfare economy, social well-being, environmental well-being and economic well-being are to be balanced. In the welfare economy, investments in well-being are seen as future investments that pay for themselves. Of course, there is a risk involved in all investments, but that risk is worth taking, because now there is a lot of research evidence of the benefits of welfare investments. Investing in children and young people is one of the most important future investments we can do. In the welfare economy, alternative costs are also calculated, i.e. what society will pay if welfare investments are not made for one reason or another. This should also be better taken into account in the drafting of legislation, and I very much miss the assessment of health and welfare effects in the preparation of legislation. This should concern ministries other than the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Mr President! The change in policy direction is also reflected in the reparation of education, science and research. The direction towards educational and cultural radical Finland is already shown in the title of the Government Programme entitled “The participating Finland”. The Government invests in knowledge and education with a total of approximately EUR 350 million covering all levels of education. Investments raise the level of competence of Finns, improve the quality and equality of education and invest in the well-being of children and young people. The basic funding of the university and polytechnics will be increased by 60 million from 2020. In addition, the university and polytechnic index will be restored in 2020, which will further increase university funding by EUR 67 million. An additional EUR 80 million is proposed for the recruitment of teachers and instructors in vocational education and training and support for teaching and guidance. As early as June, an additional EUR 20 million was approved in the amending budget for the recruitment of teachers and instructors to organise vocational education and training. In the longer term, investment in education and research will strengthen the potential and competitiveness of our economy as a whole. We'll never be able to compete in a race for wage cuts. We can only manage with a high-quality and high-quality research and innovation and a skilled and well-trained population. This government sees the whole school path as valuable, and that is why we will restore subjective day care rights, invest in equality in comprehensive school, make the second stage truly free of charge, extend compulsory education and increase funding for higher education institutions. Preparations have already begun for extending compulsory education. This is a far-reaching and comprehensive reform for the future, employment and well-being. And now this has to be done right, so it is important that each young person is held for longer than now and that each young person is given an individual and goal-oriented path of learning. Extending compulsory education does not just mean sitting on the school bench, but can include, for example, ten classes, apprenticeships, work trials, internships and so on. However, it is important to ensure that each young person has a longer period of targeted learning. Contributions to education and leisure activities are critical for the equality and well-being of young people. Finland’s future depends on young people, and prevention of exclusion is also the best policy for internal security. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u124	Mr President! Everyone agrees that Finland's employment needs to be strengthened. However, focus on mere reading, whether 75 or something else, is highly dishonest intellectually. Staring at the employment rate alone without a comprehensive analysis of revenue and expenditure is misleading. A similar illusion arises when it is claimed that the sustainability gap or dependency ratio can be corrected by importing people of low employment and unskilled but of working age. The employment rate does not describe the amount of well-being or work or total output. It describes the number of people who, during a certain period of time, have even stopped by to do some kind of work. That work can be, for example, an early distribution to an hourly salary of EUR 8 98 cents, plus a night allowance of 80 cents. By the way, the salary is roughly the same as that of my first summer jobs in the 1990s, in relation to today and the cost-of-living index. According to the headlines, the turnover of early dividers in the capital region is, by the way, 100 per cent a year. Variability may have something to do with the salary and residence permits I mentioned. Mr President! In other words, it is very important what kind of jobs people do, how often, who these people are and whether they get along with their wages. However, the government only stares at the employment rate and even that with its eyes crooked. If the government subsidizes taxpayers' money to a sufficient number of people outside the labour market every month for just a few hours, it will make the employment rate rise sufficiently high and get to celebrate its own excellence. Unfortunately, public finances do not benefit from this type of employment but suffer. The government says it will reduce inequality and reduce income inequality. At the same time, however, it adds to the disadvantage and low income which must then be corrected in line with the tax payer's government's value base. Mr President! Finland’s tax rate is so high that it would think it would be easy to manage public services and social benefits. However, this will not happen. There are problems in a number of sectors. Yet, year after year, the state has billions of dollars in secondary, unnecessary and harmful targets. The sustainability gap and the reduction in the number of contributors are the main problems that we need to address. It is necessary to improve the efficiency of the use of taxes and to reduce the role of the State, i.e. to prioritise. The middle class must not be taxed to death, the total tax rate must be reduced. When the number of contributors is reduced enough, the whole system is at risk. I'm concerned about the willingness of the average middle class to pay taxes. Why pay yourself to be sick if you don't want to get much in return? Eligible people buy themselves new services and well-being with money. The working lower middle class has the same purchasing power as those living on social security, especially in the capital region, especially in families with children. Normal pay is becoming more and more challenging to get along. Others, however, try, while some do not care. The main tasks of the state are to guarantee the security of citizens and to care for those who are disadvantaged, but producing a disadvantage, either across borders or through political solutions, does not fall within the remit of the state. True Finns want a welfare society that takes care of security, schools, medical care and other basic activities, as well as helping people who cannot do it themselves. Society must seek an independent and self-directed individual who, as an adult, is able to take responsibility for himself. Mr President! The Government says that it will increase employment by promoting work-related immigration. As I have explained above, it would be worthwhile to promote employment that generates more taxes for the state than it does. The fact that immigrants whose gross income is significantly low from year to decade and that they are heavily dependent on social support does not constitute such immigration, under no circumstances or from any point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u125	Mr President! Today we are having one of the most important debates in this parliamentary term. Technically, the current government's budgetary plan for this parliamentary term is on the table and the debate is based on the report by the Committee on Finance. In practice, we are discussing the economic policy of the Rinte government, its credibility in the current situation and, above all, the future of this policy Finland will lead — in other words, whether Finland will be expecting us in 23 years, whose economy will be substantially stronger than it is today, and which will thus be able to provide all Finns with quality welfare services such as today, or whether in three years' time we will have a future in which the fruits of the consistent economic policy of the Sipilä government, which has ended in spring, will have been eaten up and another period of severe adjustment. The answer to this, Mr President, is regrettable. The economic policy of the Rinte Government, now known, is jeopardising the foundations of public finances. So the government is playing hard gambling, in which potential losses will fall on future generations. This is the view of all domestic and foreign experts. Last week, the EU Commission warned us that our public spending is threatening to increase too much next year. Prior to that, the IMF estimates that Finland’s public finances will not be in balance in 23 years, even though it is recorded as one indicator of the current government’s economic policy. However, during the autumn, the most stunning opinion was heard from the Government's Economic Policy Review Council. It states that the government does not have a credible plan to balance public finances. As a responsible actor, each of these evaluation bodies has also given advice on how the government could achieve its objective of balanced public finances by 23, and just as we did in the assembly, the most important instrument here is a much more active employment policy than the government. For example, the Bank of Finland, which is critical of the government’s economic policy, notes the following: ‘Studies’referencing that it is possible to increase employment in a different way through the introduction of a level ofunemployment security, the elimination of additional days of unemployment security and the reform of the family leave All the above-mentioned actions are also included in the Coalition Party's alternative budget. There would therefore be ways of achieving a more responsible economic policy for the government. The most amazing thing, however, Mr President, has been the reactions of the government to the criticisms received. Instead of rushing the government to mobilise employment measures, Prime Minister Rinne has hanged himself to the timetable agreed in the Government Programme. In view of the Government's indecisiveness, the question arises as to whether the issue of the unemployed and responsible management of public finances is not at the heart of the current government's policy. That is why I appeal once again to you, good government: stop the current risk game with the future of our welfare society and take the criticisms you have received seriously. None of us wants to be under the next parliamentary elections in a situation where the most important question is what is being cut from. The power and responsibility are yours now, use it wisely. Mr President! To the end: I support the protests made by Mr Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u126	Mr President! Threat images of the world economy, trade wars, instability in the economies of key EU countries and climate change — all of them creating dark clouds over small Finland. In addition to global cross-border uncertainties, we also face national challenges such as falling birth rates and deteriorating dependency ratios. Despite the major challenges I have mentioned, and that is why, we must do everything to promote sustainable growth in Finland. Finland and we Finns will be fine if we set ambitious targets and work decisively together to achieve them. In this debate, too, I would have liked to have heard the things on which we agree and for which we are all prepared to work together. The Government's report on the budgetary plan draws strong guidelines for a better Finland. We must do everything in our power to ensure that more and more Finns have work and that public finances are in order. This is the only way we can secure public services that belong to everyone, such as health centres, schools, day-care centres, sports fields and roads in good condition. What, then, does this require? Maintaining cost competitiveness, promoting local reconciliation, encouraging people to take up work, securing the everyday life of an entrepreneur, investing in education and knowledge, ensuring regionally balanced development and keeping every Finn involved in wise social policy. These are all the sources of this — the defence and development of the welfare society. I call on the government to make a strong commitment to raising the employment rate to 75%. This objective requires some 60,000 new jobs, i.e. new jobs, in addition to the decisions of Juha Sipilä’s Government and the jobs brought about by the economic cycle. At the latest next autumn's budget debate, decisions must be made that will strengthen employment by 30,000 people. I expect the government to work decisively to promote the availability of skilled labour and to develop learning and skills. With the constant change and change in working life around us, Finland must be able to offer everyone an opportunity to improve their skills and, if necessary, to exchange for new careers. I strongly support the government's plans in this regard. Mr President! The Centre Party wants Finland to have a great power for sustainable development. We have all the tools to combat climate change, to solve global problems with Finnish expertise. Finnish agricultural and forestry expertise, developing and intelligent industry, high education and bold entrepreneurs and innovative companies across Finland are the core of the solution. That is why I am pleased that the budgetary plan takes a good neckline on climate change. Its solution is not only an obligation for Finland but also, above all, an opportunity. We should use our own know-how and natural resources in a sustainable, intelligent way and at the same time create new values. I would therefore like to say that Finland will not rise with gloom, on the contrary. Finland will only rise by believing and trusting in ourselves and each other and by building a supportive and predictable environment for this work and entrepreneurship. This Government report now under discussion provides a good platform for this strengthening of trust and creating new growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u127	Mr President! Concerns about the financial situation of municipalities have rightly been raised in the debate. However, the budgetary plan takes into account the worsening situation of municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u130	Mr President! I appreciate the well-written speeches made by my fellow Members. For the time being, I myself have started by trying to listen to the debate here and then to structure my speech during the debate, when it is possible to take into account to some extent what has been said here last and perhaps to exclude things that have been repeated in many speeches in a row. When we talk about public finances, it is like a kind of building with certain basic blocks: gross domestic product, total tax rate, total public expenditure, debt, employment rate. At the moment, the situation in Finland is that GDP is EUR 232 billion. Last year's growth was 1.7 per cent. We have a total tax rate of 43%. It is higher in Denmark, 46%, 44% in Sweden, but in general the Nordic countries are at the forefront of the OECD's comparison. It can therefore be estimated that maintaining a Nordic welfare society requires at least a 40% overall tax rate. Public expenditure is about 95 billion. It includes the central government budget, the budgets of municipalities and other general government and annual social security contributions. The debt is EUR 106 billion at present, i.e. central government debt in Finland. And the employment rate, which Mr Purra spoke about a moment ago, has last been 72.7% in the monthly statistics in September, and the target is, as we well know, 75%. I share Mr Purra's concern that the way in which the employment rate is calculated — i.e. working at least one hour a week and then the proportion of these people among all 15-64-year-olds — does not necessarily tell us everything we should be aiming for. This should be accompanied by a reduction in the number of hours worked as a whole. For example, in Denmark, where the unemployment rate was 5% last year, while we had 7%, there were 27 hours per person employed, when we had 30. In other words, Finns actually did more hours of work, even though we had an unemployment rate of 2 percentage points higher than in Denmark. Once we have access to this total tax rate from these basic national economy blocks, I would like to emphasise the efficiency of the funding that we can use to make services and transfers. Effectiveness does not mean any fine-tuning; it is a question of public services being well-targeted and efficiently produced. In Finland, for example, the efficiency of hospitals is top-notch compared to other Nordic countries, to mention one example. Another important issue is the prioritisation of expenditure. We always have to think about what we call future spending and what we call solidarity spending. There are also expenditures, both for the future and for solidarity, for example, investment in education and training is certainly such a thing. The differences in income are, of course, related to taxation, but also to the fact that we have comprehensive public services. In my opinion, the public finance plan now under discussion is based on the ideology of the Nordic welfare state, which aims to maintain and develop good public services and to some extent also to compensate for the huge income differentials that have been torn in recent years.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u131	Mr President! First of all, I support the presentation made by the Finns of Finland by Lulu Ranta. Finland's economic growth is clearly slowing down after the upturn in 2016. The Ministry of Finance estimates that GDP will increase by 1.5 per cent in 2019 and by 1.0 per cent in 2020 and will further slow down towards the end of the planning period, to 0.7 per cent in 2023. The general government deficit is projected to increase in 2019 and the development is projected to continue throughout the spending limits period, with the deficit increasing to nearly EUR 4 billion during the planning period. Mr President! In October we heard that 58 per cent of Finns want to curb their debt, and it is very important that we all strive to ensure that our children and grandchildren do not pay the debt we are taking. The Finns Party wants to invest in Finland and Finns by offering our country a new, better and fairer direction, not only for next year or this parliamentary term, but also for more than parliamentary term. This requires structural reform and new thinking in order to remedy the current shortcomings in our society and to halt the inequalities that divide our citizens. Mr President! Among other things, the reform of social welfare and health care has emerged here, which is undoubtedly one of the biggest structural reforms that this Parliament will possibly undertake. In order to know what is coming and where we are going, it would be very important to know what is coming. In May we heard that there may be 18 provinces, but there has also been a model with 5 to 12 provinces. It would therefore be very important to know what is coming, and the Finns of Peru are proposing and demanding that a parliamentary working party be set up in this Parliament, where we can jointly go through this possible social reform. This was also Prime Minister Rinte's presentation, most recently in March 2019, as well as Andersson's presentation as early as 2017. In other words, we would be happy to stick to this and we would like this issue to be dealt with in parliamentary terms, not just on the tax issue, but on the real aim of making progress with this important reform. Mr President! The government has been toothless in treating Finnish care for the elderly. In October, Tehy estimates that 30 municipalities are in the process of negotiations in which staff in the care sector are being made redundant or threatened. This cycle of development is unsustainable, it must be stopped. Finnish nurses should be given a promise that they have work to do. They are needed — they are needed in the care of the elderly, they are needed in hospitals in various industries, they are needed on call — and it is time to tell Finnish workers. This approach, that people are being laid off, does not say. It is important to ensure that municipalities survive in the future. Mr President! The delay in the nurse’s measurements until 2023 is disproportionate. It would have been reasonable for the matter to have been taken up immediately after the beginning of the reign, because that is where our previous term ended. It is not only enough to provide resources for control. We have just heard that the regional government agencies have received a record number of reports of irregularities in relation to the care of the elderly. In 2017, there were 258 notifications, in 2018 there were 437 and this year, 2019, as many as 940 misreports. Doesn't that wake us all up to act and actually take action? I would like to know what the government is doing with these catastrophic figures. There's gonna be misreports, and care for the elderly isn't going to be okay. We're gonna be delayed to 2023, and we don't know what's coming out of there. But it would be good to know about the financing of the social welfare reform,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u132	Now there is enough willingness to have a small, short debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u133	Mr President! I would now like to say to Mr Juvonen that your protest actually has the full support of this government's work on this social reform. I have just dug up this statement of yours, and it says here in a very smart way: ‘The government requires that the Government implements the Constitutional requirements for social and healthcare reform,in order to ensure the availability, quality and accessibility of services in all parts of the country and to ensure that private actors complement services which are organised and financed by the public sector. “ This is very much in line with the whole government line. And as far as the content of the social welfare reform is concerned, there are very good records in the government programme so that they must be able to discuss them at this stage. As far as funding is concerned, the aim is to make the need-standardised financing model based on the THL criteria. I am quite sure that a common understanding can be found here, if it is good enough for the Finns of Finland during the processing period.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u134	Mr President! The chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health replied with those very words that this was being taken forward with determination and that a parliamentary debate should also be built on the special arrangements. But instead I would like to respond to this, in which I fully agree with Mr Juvonen. You spoke of a nurse’s appointment, and you consider it unreasonable to delay it until 23 C.E. that this could not be fully implemented. Yes, it's unreasonable, but it's not the government's fault. We are now finally putting it into the law of nurseship. Unfortunately, this process, so that it can be fully fulfilled, will require a few years. Unfortunately, you have the problem of delay. You should look in your mirror.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u137	Mr. Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u138	Mr President! I'm sorry we're always going to argue with the nurse. The nurse's measurements weren't weakened last season. That is very important to tell you. Caretaker measurements were not weakened from 0.5 to 0.4. It hasn't been weakened. But you did have the Prime Minister's portfolio in 2015, when you didn't make it happen. There was a great deal of discussion about it, but that was when the setting up of this nurseship fell. But the important thing is, there's one thing we agree on. Our shared will mode is, our promise of service for all Finns is that when a person gets old, he gets taken care of, he gets into the nursing place, he gets 24-hour care, he goes home to a nurse. We take care of him, we don't leave him alone at home abandoned. As far as social reform is concerned, we have been dealing with social welfare here for years, even in the previous period, and we certainly know the main features: the services are in order, but we also need savings. It is not enough that it is included in the government programme, but that we should also be told about it. You have now told us about the care guarantee, where funding is also insufficient.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u139	Let us now turn to Mr Kiljunen and Mr Kankaanniemi, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u140	Mr President! I am sure that we now agree with the Finns of Finland that this matter of care needs to be put in order,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u146	Let us give a response to Mr Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u147	Mr President! Mr Kiljunen, let us live in realism and say that this was not done. Even though the government program has been written, the surgery was not done. And now we're in a situation where you have the power and you're postponing the nursing appointment at the beginning of April 23. It's unreasonable. And during the 2011-2015 period, you had all the key ministerial posts — the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Basic Services and so on — and you failed to manage the appointment. You have no basis whatsoever for reproaching the Finns of Peru on this matter. Mr Juvonen has done a huge job, and I believe that without him there would not be a situation in which this is now so strongly on the agenda. Take care of it now, and you will have credibility in what you say.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u149	And now back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u150	Mr President! The nurse’s size is actually done as soon as possible. We have a proposal from the expert group, and the minister has promised that the expert group's proposal will be implemented within the timeframe that the experts consider possible. On the other hand, budget estimates are often far too short-term. Of course, this budgetary plan under discussion allows for a longer perspective, but it does not take into account the real consequences of the decision than in a small part — a good example of the government’s decision to transfer tax revenue through depreciation rights for the benefit of the next government. Of course, this will cause problems with the EU, but it will not in itself reduce tax revenues over a longer period of time. The most important decisions are the most far-reaching. For example, now that funds are finally being invested in early childhood education, it is well known that it will pay itself back many times over the next few decades. Or when the right-wing government replaced a huge number of young people by a crisis in vocational education and training, the consequences will be paid not only as social problems but also as economic costs, at the worst in several generations to go on for decades.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u155	Mr President! The goal of this government's economic policy is to increase prosperity, increase employment, reduce inequality and reduce income disparities. Of course, the government has also taken into account the risks and uncertainty of economic development. The ageing of the population and the dramatic decline in the birth rate make it difficult to manage public finances. Increasing the employment rate is key to managing this entity together with managing the cost development of social and health services. Despite the negative arguments heard in this Chamber, too, this government has addressed the management of employment through a number of actions and lessons have been learnt from previous government attempts to reform social welfare and health care. In the future, the reform will be carried forward by the customer and services ahead, investing in prevention and basic services. We want to invest in the employment, removal of barriers for the part-time, long-term unemployed and disabled, and in the future, for example, the sole entrepreneur can receive support for the recruitment of the first employee. Wage support will be increased by red tape, reducing the use of a more flexible and clearer model for more and more people. In many areas, the problem of matching is addressed together with the education system. The Government invests in early childhood education by reducing group sizes, and investments in education and research are significant. After all these measures, the government’s important objective in the normal economy is to balance public finances in 2023. The Government Programme and other measures will be implemented to the extent possible within the framework. The Government as a whole wants to ensure a responsible, long-term and financial stability-friendly spending policy. In view of the realities that we have, the need for construction is decreasing, the growth of investment is slowing down and, consequently, our exports are slowing down. The number of pensioners is increasing and the situation in municipalities is challenging across the board. We recognize these realities. We need, and we are doing, an active policy to improve employment and the positive development of exports, but we also need structural reforms and a change in attitude so that people over 50 have the opportunity to re-employment and work. Our companies, our municipalities and the state also need better management and understanding of the importance of well-being at work. These, too, are the measures that make a positive development of our employment and the well-being of our people, and these also have a positive impact on the finances of our municipalities. Mr President! We have the will to make a different policy than on the right side of this Chamber. We do not want to make huge cuts to social security and pensions,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u158	Mr President! There was an interesting debate here about the nurseship. Well, that's the way it's gonna work, but when there's no money, it's gonna be said that we'll look at it in the future. This is kind of like if, for example, the government decided to build a flagpole and scale it. For example, this would come to the city of Hamina. It would then be said that this money will, however, be insufficient to obtain enough steel. In other words, at a rather weak level, this nursing dimension is in that respect, and I do not quite agree that it is then simply stated that ‘we will see in the future, in the future, in the future, in a flaghouse’. Mr President! The budgetary plan is based on raising the employment rate to 75%. Unfortunately, most of the government's employment tricks are done by means of wage subsidies. The State is therefore hiring on a fixed-term basis and paying part of the salary. Statistics become more beautiful, labour productivity does not increase, and few workers get sufficient income or continuity for their working lives. Such measures are completely inadequate. Growth should therefore be sought on the market and not supported in these socialist employment and tax models. If we really want to influence fiscal policy and the budgetary position, we should consider giving up the spending limits procedure. Public finances are full of structural problems: the population is ageing, pension expenditure is increasing and health and care expenditure is increasing. If economic growth is not achieved as estimated by the government, if the forecast deviation is 0.5 percentage points, these expenditure increases will appear in a particularly dangerous light. If the government adheres to its own programme and invests EUR 3 billion in one-off investments, this will mean an additional pressure of around EUR 1.6 billion for the years 20 to 22 of the planning period. It doesn't look good. A major challenge for the taxpayer also arises from the dream of achieving carbon neutrality by 2035. This climate socialism is particularly dangerous for the nine lowest income deciles, especially for motorists and small-town residents. Food, medicine and everything that depends on logistics is tilting. The government does not think of the poor, at least in this respect. The Harakka nature centre in Helsinki, which has not yet been designated after the Minister for Labour, operates on renewable energy. This is significant, because otherwise Helsinki is mainly powered by carbon power. Yet here in Helsinki is the most critical of the regions where the car is a necessity. The debate on climate leadership is incomprehensible because, for example, the United States could not care less about how much taxes are raised in Finland and how much of the Finnish taxpayer is being punished. We cannot curl up in a socialist tax model and call out Impivaara climate slogans in the face of a global phenomenon. The declarations make the comrades more comfortable, but everything costs a normal Finnish worker and woman. Speaking of gender, Lohikoski, the Left Alliance, in his group speech, proposed gender-conscious budgeting. I have understood — correct me if I am wrong — that the budget is based on an estimate of revenue and expenditure. It is mainly done on the basis of the data studied, such as the analysis of the accounting operation and the economic indicators in general. However, where in the world do we live if the Left Alliance wants budgeting to be based on gender? On the other hand, this makes the political positions quite clear and helps to understand the starting points in relation to immigration, for example, which consists mainly of male genders — why? My question is: how does this gender-conscious budgeting differ from feminist regional policy? Both have now been submitted to the government. Why does that gender matter so much today? I personally think that everything should be based on man, no matter what's in the crotch. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u159	Mr President! In this speech reference was made to rhetoric and the preparation of speeches. I believe that one of the best speeches in this Chamber was made one day when a baby exclaimed in that gallery. He did not actually say a single word, but it was a very strong speech which reminded us of what we are working for here and what decisions we are making, for future generations we are building this country. Children have a future — and you young people who are now listening in the gallery. Mr President! This country is going to get hurt, nothing is going to work, we are going to bankrupt this country, we are going to cut off our children. Such talk has come from the direction of the opposition throughout this red mud regime. It has become very clear that the opposition does not believe in the government's objective of employment and balance in public finances, but I am very pleased that we all believe that we need more work and more livelihood in this country, throughout the country. It is about the common money and the common good and common country that we are building. We need, quite rightly, responsibility and also the wisdom to be able to secure services for future generations, and that is why it is important for us to discuss both this government and the opposition, to present different perspectives. It is quite true that the work of the government is by no means easy. This is also reflected in the budgetary plan before us. It notes that the risks to economic development and uncertainty have increased. Among other things, the international economy, and the euro area in particular, has become aware of the slowdown in economic growth. These concerns underline that the government must indeed take effective action to meet the employment objective, because through work we secure funding for our basic services, such as services for families with children, education, care for the elderly. Mr President! The government is now doing what we believe in in the government. It has already been pointed out in this debate that we have done and we are taking action to make a strong contribution to the increase in employment throughout the country. Last season we lived, we could say, in some way historical times, when employment in the whole country went up, up to Lapland and Kainuu. There is still a shortage of labour, and it is important for us to continue this work so that this positive development continues in order to create work throughout Finland, throughout the kingdom. Mr Vehviläinen well explained that we are implementing a social welfare reform that saves money and helps people. We will not cut off our children, but we will raise the children's allowances for the most vulnerable at the beginning of next year, we will raise the guardian raise of the student allowance, and in this way we will create for young people the prospect that it is worthwhile to have a family and that we in society value the family. [Call for the Cape]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u160	Mr President! The representative Junnila mentioned here an example of the plan to build a flagpole in Hamina, preferably still in Finland’s centenary of independence — a 100-metre pole when Finland turned 100. This government has acted exactly as the city of Hamina has done, has also invested money in it, and the pole has been set up. Of course, there are always problems along the way, and these calculations of strength and others just need to be sorted out, just as in the nursing work, we need to find out whether they are sufficient for the number of nurses and how to train more and ensure that it is genuinely implemented, and then there will be delays — so there will be delays in the construction of this kind of flagpole, that in the sense of
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u164	I would remind the honourable Members, both active and passive, that when talking about parties present — or even parties that are not present — they use established and official names from these parliamentary groups and, in particular, no names of ridicule.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u165	Honorable Speaker! The Government's objective is to achieve a budgetary balance by 2023. This objective still requires a significant increase in the employment rate. The Centre supports all the solutions agreed so far, but we believe that further action is needed in addition to these. The Centre has published strong proposals for further employment measures, which we have also heard here in the speeches, always in order to maintain cost competitiveness for the employment of young people. A vigorous employment policy is always a welfare policy. That's why it's important to the city center. President! In addition to the employment objective, we must resolve how we can get jobs and job seekers to meet. There are many places where we are in a situation where job vacancies are the darkest of the clouds, but there are no suitable job seekers anywhere. So let's talk from a point of view, depending on the problem of encounters or lack of talent. An important way to do this is for the state administration to update its employer policy to this day. Regrettably little modern opportunities for teleworking and multi-spatial work have been recognised and identified in central government. Fortunately, the ministers in the centre have now stepped on the front line. Mr Katri, Minister for Economic Affairs At the end of August, my corner started a study on increasing the number of jobs that are independent and multi-placed. This is about the ways in which working, living and working in more localities can be done in organisations under the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Minister of Defence Antti Kaikkonen has also launched a similar study in the Defence Forces, the Defence Administration Building Agency and the Ministry of Defence. The report explores ways in which working and operating in more localities could be carried out in defence management in the 2020s. The aim is to assess the benefits and opportunities for more flexible work. Mika also The Ministry of Finance, led by Lintilä, has set up a regional reform strategy project aimed at drawing up guidelines on the state's activities and presence in the regions in the 2020s. I welcome these ministers' projects and studies with pleasure. This is clear-eyed activity. Mr President! Another important goal of the government is the carbon neutrality of Finland by 2035. The Centre is strongly committed to these goals, but we also want to emphasise the fairness of solutions for all Finns. The fact that the regions where carbon sinks and carbon stocks are the strongest do not give rise to a sense of justice is not the case with the role of a mere payer. Ultimately, they are climate change solvers, heroes. They cannot, for example, be cornered by forest owners or farmers. It is clear that not all ways of increasing or reducing carbon are automatically good or bad. The black and white that's now in place and the blame on each other just deepens the potters. President! Undoubtedly, climate change is one of the greatest challenges, but the anxiety it causes can be considered a failure. We already have knowledge and means to mitigate climate change, and new technologies are also being developed. The biggest challenge is to get everyone involved in the voluntary work. That is where we Finns can serve as an example, even though our share of the world is small. However, it is absolutely essential that we get global players, both companies and major powers, to carry their land. Without it, we're in trouble. President! The centre wants to be there to create hope, perspectives and solutions for climate debate. There's no reason to fall into hopelessness.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u166	Mr President! For six months now, a government under the leadership of the Labour Party, with the centre as a support party, has been sitting in the country. However, the labour market is completely confused and the situation is out of control. This amazes people in this country and also worries people. Including the person who signed it and our team. Mr President! I would like to introduce a little of this objection to this report by the Finns of Peru, which contains paragraph 32. I would ask everyone to read the objectives of all 32 of our positions. The first paragraph contains this general objective, which the chairman of the committee, Mr Koskinen, was somewhat overstated. I believe that this general setting of objectives is extremely important and we have a clear line in it. I don't read it. You can all read it yourself. I will just mention a few of these points separately. In the third paragraph, we express our concern at the development of sovereign debt and guarantee liabilities and the fact that they are enormously high in terms of taxpayers' risks and must be taken seriously. In the fifth and sixth paragraphs, we address this topical climate policy and demand that the government review its climate policy realistically and operate internationally on the basis of the 'polluter pays' principle and speed up the planning and introduction of EU-level climate duties. Finland’s 0.1% climate emissions mean nothing to China, India, the United States and many EU countries that are increasingly polluting. So we need realism. In paragraph 6, we state that the government must act in such a way that the fall in climate policy is not included in the costs of housing, motoring or food and is not burdened with low incomes and rural residents. This is now happening as a result of this policy, including through an increase in fuel tax. This is not acceptable. Mr President! Next, we have a demand for the government to take effective measures to solve the problem of matching the labour market and to employ Finnish labour force in Finnish jobs. There are many ways, but the government only looks beyond the borders of the country by means of feedback and other measures, by allowing illegal immigrants to work. This is a policy that we do not accept. Then, as far as agriculture is concerned, we have a call for the government to improve the profitability of agriculture and other primary production and the income of farmers and to safeguard the self-sufficiency of the domestic food economy, particularly in the case of CAP and financial solutions in the EU. Local government finances are linked to point 11. To that end, three types of measures are needed: There is a need for municipal measures, a need for a municipality-state reform and a need for new money from the state to the municipalities. There is still something to be saved by these measures, but dozens of municipalities are going so far as to think that it is a little late to save. Mr President! Then we have a statement calling for regional policy and Arctic cooperation. We call for measures to promote education, research and development, innovation and intangible investment, to safeguard forest logging opportunities in line with the growing needs of industry, to eliminate poverty and exclusion, and to implement carerisation. As Mr Vehviläinen has already read our statement on the reform of social welfare and health care, it is excellent. If that is what the government is doing, we will certainly support it as a common goal. Then there is paragraph 28, the abolition of compulsory education and instead the focus on improving and safeguarding the quality of early childhood education and improving the educational outcomes of comprehensive school, including by reducing group sizes, increasing support education and eliminating school bullying. So we have an alternative: to improve the level of basic education and not to extend it as a coercive measure to finance well-off expenditure. Then there is the paragraph on the reduction of housing costs and also the paragraph on measures to bring freedom of expression, opinion and religion to a high Western level in Finland. In other words, we have a truly diverse – not a party of one thing, but a multifaceted – whole set of solutions to society’s acute problems in this statement. We are raising funding by not pushing free money abroad, by cutting down the cost of immigration and by dismantling red tape. There are many other items for which we are also prepared to present savings.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u167	Mr President! The centre is not a support party, as Mr Kankanniemi said. The centre is an active 100-year-old defender of Finnish democracy, who has made a republican form of government and comprehensive school in this country and has built a Finnish welfare state together with red soil. Oh, my God, what a riot, even though the situation picture and the goal are common! Are we arguing about the means? That is what I thought earlier today in this debate when we went to the debate on this budgetary report. It is true that Finland is not expected to be drawn from the global economy this season. Even this country cannot afford to be lulled in place, as the economic outlook has clearly deteriorated. We agree on this. Future economic and employment developments now largely depend on the solutions that we Finns themselves make. That is why this budgetary plan invests in, among other things, the growth of skills, working capacity, well-being and exports. The opposition stresses that there are no employment measures. I really do think there are, and that is what we have heard today at the mouth of the ministers. What is more, it is slandered here that these measures are not impressive. However, I would like to ask for patience and encouragement for us to move forward together and also for the wind to sail for these objectives. It is certain that, for example, investments in research, development and innovation, as well as knowledge investments, will also be reflected in employment development, although they will not be included in this section. The Government has gone to work for a more competitive Finland, and companies are well placed to succeed if employees are dared to hire. Taxation must also encourage work and entrepreneurship. This government will therefore continue the entrepreneurial pro-business line of the Sipilä Government with boldness. One key factor is the stability and predictability of tax policy. Business taxation will not be tightened, and the government will double the right to deduct investment. In addition, the Government promotes the operating conditions of small and medium-sized enterprises that employ them in a variety of ways. Finnvera's guarantee system will be developed, Business Finland's resources will be strengthened, recruitment support to facilitate the recruitment of the first employee will be tried out and company advisory services promoted in matters of employment. Mr President! The maximum amount of export guarantees is to be increased from the beginning of next year. The aim is to promote the competitiveness of the financing of Finnish exporting companies and thus improve their access to export projects. If bread is exported, the work of a farmer, consumer, machinist, builder, and marketing expert will increase. Exports can by no means be underestimated. Finnish work and services should be of interest to the world, and we should refine our sales products to the point where we get the maximum price. The central parliamentary group understands that it takes time to prepare matters together with the social partners. However, we expect these measures to be brought forward in next spring's spending limits debate, and this will at least make its 30,000 new jobs clear next year. Employment measures have been identified and more are needed. Mr President! For the central parliamentary group, the economy is not an absolute value. Let us make it clear that this government is not separated from the everyday life and distress of local government finances. We understand people and want to make sure that the municipal economy is doing well. Nor does what Mrs Ranne said when she claims that the government does not intervene in the root causes. It is true that the tasks of municipalities have continued to increase: in the 1930s, municipalities had 40 tasks and by the 2010s they had more than 500. Representative The Vehviläinen here gave an excellent speech on the importance and need of social welfare reform and on the importance and need of the related regional reform, and I would like to urge the common view that regional and social reform should be vigorously pursued at this point. — Thank you, President!
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u168	Mr President! I just listened to Professor Petri Salo's picture of this time. He said this: We live in a diverse, complex, limitless, unpredictable and uncertain time with twisted problems, difficult reforms, experiences of outsiders and longings for the past. This is both—and a time in which, in the midst of well-being and quality of life, we experience invisibility, success and happiness in the midst of impatience and uncriticalness, self-appreciation and empathy, despite disparateness and fragmentation, despite motivation, irresponsibility, and in the midst of meaninglessness. In the face of such a time frame, it is good that the Government Programme and the economic plans invest in education and in children and young people — the future. The OECD report talks about future competences that are needed in the future's working life. It is necessary to know how to use different tools interactively, understand language, understand knowledge, information and technology. It is also necessary to be able to interact with very different people, to work together, to get along with others, to manage and resolve conflicts. It is also necessary to be able to act independently and be able to act as part of a larger entity. Faced with such challenges, it is great that we are now investing in education. The entire Government Programme is also known as ‘Participative Finland’,and this is followed by ‘Finland with knowledge, education and innovation’. The aim is therefore to increase education and skills at all levels, to reduce learning gaps and to increase educational equality, to improve children and young people's well-being. Education contributes to building social equality and equality. Finland is an attractive place to study, study and invest internationally. Three larger projects are about to start. Firstly, this extension of compulsory education, which wants to catch young people. When it is implemented, it is important that we do not forget these specific measures either, so that all young people and children get the support they need. This extension of compulsory education is also linked to the creation of a third path in secondary education alongside vocational and upper secondary education which allows for different paths and routes for everyone to find their own place and strength. This third path, which has also been referred to here today in the debates, is linked to workshops, tenth grade classes, folk colleges, preparatory training and rehabilitation measures. It is important that each young person obtains at least a secondary degree. And since work is to be created in areas where higher education is needed, it is important that school trails are built in such a way that there is no bagpipe, but that every route can go as far as common enough. Today, the Finlandia House has had a seminar on continuous learning. This is another major reform of the whole life cycle of learning in different areas of life, both at school and outside the school system in work, hobbies, organizational activities, voluntary work. In order to increase employment, it is important that we invest in this continuous learning, listen to researchers, to the results they have obtained, to the most effective means of getting all people to develop themselves and to keep up their skills and keep working, and at the same time to get everyone who has lost their jobs back to the right job for themselves. This preliminary OECD report, which appeared in September, has highlighted many challenges, including the fact that, although Finland has a high level of competence, it is insufficient when we look at the challenges of the future. Skills want to build up for those who already have a high level of education. In other words, especially those with less education, we need to get this continuous learning. It is one of the ways in which we can boost employment, and it will also allow us to invest in the important things that we want to take forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u169	Mr President! Also my condolences to the family of Antti Rantakangas. There has been a great deal of talk today about the economy. However, I think that too little has been said about local government finances. My argument is that I come from the countryside and that neighbouring communities are already in crisis and not everything in my own municipality is in perfect order. That is why I thought to raise the issue of this situation in the municipalities a little more strongly here. We know that in the coming year, next year, 53 municipalities will raise taxes. This applies to 1.1 million local residents in Finland, but the pressures will be significantly higher in the coming years. We have just been through a booming period, and the municipalities are already in record state of affairs at this stage, and the forecasts promise a downturn in the economy. We know that Germany and also the western neighbour are already in pain, and unfortunately we are on the same train. Municipalities are the foundation of our society, and many things are linked to the existence of municipalities or how municipalities are able to carry out the tasks assigned to them. This is the real thing. Here we know that municipal self-government is protected by a constitution, which means that the residents of the municipality have the right to decide on the administration and finances of their municipality. The principle of self-government is that the municipality itself decides on the tasks it has assumed under its administration. It is also true that when municipalities have extensive autonomy, municipalities also have a great responsibility to carry out structural reforms and find ways to improve productivity. The pressure is high in the municipalities, but the means are limited, and that is why the state and society need help. Mr President! We are now in a situation where negotiations have begun in too many municipalities, the economy is in bad shape in the municipalities, and I see great concern that basic services will soon not be able to be produced in a high-quality manner. This leads to an overload of staff, and the consequences can be very worrying in terms of many human indicators. Unfortunately, this has already happened in many municipalities, there has been some unfortunate burnout. The means for the municipalities have already been used, and the worst seems to be just ahead. We will also be violating the Constitution in our country in many places in the near future. Even layoffs turn against us: an overloaded situation leads to premature sickness pensions, increases fatigue and, at the same time, even higher absenteeism rates. The situation is untenable. The same debate still needs to be accompanied by a strong increase in the number of elderly people in our country. This in turn increases the demand for social and health services, it has been calculated that about one per cent per year. As the birth rate of children decreases, municipalities will be left with a growth rate of 0.5 per cent of the demand for services. According to the calculations, the growth in operating costs is 3.4 per cent per year and, in the current situation, municipalities are still investing exceptionally heavily. Real estate has become obsolete and needs to be fixed before regional reform, and the debt burden in municipalities will increase from around 20 billion in the next few years to 30 billion. According to the updated JTS forecast, the deficit of local government would be EUR 3.1 billion, or 1.2% of GDP in 2023. We already know that small municipalities in particular are in big trouble. In the next few years, municipalities with less than 6000 inhabitants will have a tax increase pressure of 5 per cent at their peak. At the same time, the values of municipalities and municipal property in municipalities are collapsing. Mr Lindén just went out, but he rightly said that efficiency should be increased on the public side. Municipalities need to focus more and more on productivity-enhancing measures and structural reforms. Better leadership and new approaches are needed. However, it is already known that too much remains to be done for local government to adapt. For most municipalities, especially small ones in Finland, it is an impossible equation. In these circumstances, the budgetary plan for the years 20 to 23 is not very promising. Municipalities have the possibility to apply for an additional EUR 10 million, which can be allocated on a discretionary basis from the allocation of basic municipal services. The amount is negligible in this situation. Moreover, another 10 million for the discretionary pooling of municipalities in crisis or in crisis is not enough, although at the same time there is a spirit in the air that is forced to enter into massive municipal mergers negotiations in this country in the coming years. The question arises as to whether the collapse of small municipalities has begun and whether there are any in Finland since this term of government. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u170	Mr President! The Group of the Party of European Socialists pointed out that employment policy is a marathon rather than a 100-metre sprint. When using sports metaphors, it is good to note that not many in this hall could keep up with the best marathoners in the world, even the 100 meters. For this reason, it would be desirable for Finland that the Finnish Government should even try to achieve that marathon speed. Now the shot has already been fired and the government stands still. After four good years, Finland's public finances have once again turned downwards. In order to cover government expenditure, the main objective of the Rinte government is to increase the employment rate to 75% and to increase the number of employed persons by at least 60,000 persons. The left-wing government on the slope is also committed to the balance of public finances in 2023. The EU Commission's latest forecast for Finland's economy is that Finland's deficit is projected to be 1.1% this year, 1.4% next year and 20211.6%. The EU Commission also calls for attention to be paid to the fact that many risks can lead to slower growth than predicted, leading to a higher deficit. At the beginning of my speech, I said that the government will stand still in its employment policies after six months. I'm afraid I've fallen into an alternate fact. The government has actually reduced employment by 5,000 people by its actions, in other words, the government actually left home for better sneakers or new excuses, not to compete with other countries in the world for success. So the direction is wrong, and the speed in the wrong direction seems to be getting tougher every year. If the government does not immediately take strong action to improve employment and the economy, then the government will fail to deliver on this too. The government says every day that it will take important steps for employment next summer — those measures should have been taken yesterday. For those who are currently unemployed, summer is a long time. Mr President! Once again, we have to talk about these same things, because here it seems that the government has closed its eyes to reality. Fortunately, some government representatives today have taken a vow of debt — fortunately because it is a position that recognises reality. I completely disagree with it myself, but at least we are talking about it under the right names. That is where the good aspects of debt-taking will end. You, good government, are only trying to run the last 100 meters of the marathon and you're still losing. The people of Finland will lose. The general government deficit will be paid in the future by today's children and young people. It is irresponsible to make left-wing populist politics with the money of children and young people. The government does not welcome the bright future of young people and children. Instead, the government once again welcomes the comments of the EU Commission and the IMF on the state of public finances. I have previously highlighted the most important competitive advantage, namely reliability, of Finland here in the speaking room. When a Finn promises something, it also holds. Dear government, put on those sneakers in the alternative budget proposed by the convention, and when you really hurry back to the track, we can help you get back on the road to reliability. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u171	Mr President! There has been a lot of talk today about young people and education and the like. I'm sorry to say that I've noticed one thing. Let's stare at the statistics, but we can't read them right. There is much talk, for example, of the fact that four out of five academics are employed, but the number of comprehensive schools is not. It ignores the fact that the same category includes all those who are excluded and others, those with alcohol/drug problems. They will not be employed even if they are forced into secondary education. In fact, the view that there is a certain group of people that cannot be placed in the same category as they want to be. It is said that this group would not be employed at all, so to speak. But really, if we look at it, at the moment, most likely those workers who do not necessarily even need training will be employed in the free labour market. Of course, if you have attended a vocational school, high school or similar and go to work, then you will be considered to have got that job because of that education. I myself have employed between 50 and 100 employees over the last 20 years, something about the middle ground. I've never looked at school papers from one single person. All other things have been far more important than the school results. I know a lot, so to speak, about men and women who have come a long way in life with a pretty bad certificate, a pretty bad school job. Here too, there are certainly several Members of Parliament who have been so busy at the time that they have not been able to attend many schools. Of course, it is not the same as many other jobs requiring schools. But the truth is that at the moment those people who are motivated are active, even without training. That's what a lot of people like me talk about ass crackheads. In fact, there is a long way to go in that society that more men and women are going to be needed in this society who are doing the work that many others are not prepared to do in those turbulent and squares. What amazes me quite a bit in these discussions, and what is really contradictory, is when we talk about how important this education is — and now we are going to force those people or young people who do not necessarily like it. I see this as a very worrying phenomenon in vocational schools already at the moment: vocational school teachers do not necessarily wrestle with motivated students there, and now more are being hit there. I remember the situation myself in my professional school, or a lot of situations when we had friends there who had come to study either for home or for someone else, but it didn't taste like that at all. At least I feel a little sorry for the teachers who have to wrestle with those students. Now, then, there are many times as many of them caught there as teachers to worry about. What is still quite confusing about this education is that, at the same time, we are talking about the need for work-related immigration and immigrants coming to save our country – it seems rather strange that those rescuers are the uneducated people. In my view, it is contradictory that an uneducated immigrant should save Finland's future, while, at the same time, the government is making decisions that require secondary education from all young people because they cannot be employed without education. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u172	Mr President! Less than five years ago, when the government programme was discussed and the government of the previous period was formed, the economic situation in Finland was catastrophic. We were right on the brink of a gap, and if we had continued the policy of the previous period, Finland would have fallen into a situation where we were being dictated from outside. So it was after the governments of Katainen and Stubb, and tough measures were needed to change the course. So it also happened that the direction has changed, and now we are in a much easier situation in this regard. Now, however, from the point of view of the government, it is criticised for what has been done over the last period and it is praised that the government has now invested in basic security. This has happened and we are grateful and satisfied and we acknowledge it. It would have been quite incomprehensible if this government had not gone to improve basic security in some respects. We support it, and even the Finns in their alternative budget do not propose any cuts, quite the contrary. In order to improve the position of people in the most difficult situations, we have proposals both on the tax side and on benefits for families with children and people in difficulty in general. Let this be clear when there's a bit of a suspect here. Mr President! When the Committee on Finance dealt with this JTS, I practically asked every expert what they thought about extending the pay subsidy in the way the government planned. In practice, no expert considered it effective or, at least, reasonablely effective. It may have been that an expert close to a particular government party chose his words softly, but there was no support for using pay subsidies as planned by the government itself as independent experts. In fact, it seems to be the only employment measure the government has been talking about in addition to these investment appropriations. If wage subsidies are taken to the private side and implemented there, they create short-term jobs and, in the worst case scenario, replace permanent workers. So the result as a whole is plus minus zero, and when you take the costs that come to the state from it, it easily turns negative. In the case of disabled people, pay subsidies are in order, but it is, as Mr Purra well said here, a social policy, not an employment policy. Mr President! The government's actual employment measures are delayed and delayed. Today, too, we heard that they will be discussed in the spring spending limits debate and that they may become legislative proposals and decisions next autumn and then start to have an impact at the beginning of 21. In general, these measures do not have a very rapid effect on employment, which is already close to 22 and 23, when the period ends and when 75% should be achieved in line with the government's objective. It should be argued that the government should speed up their preparations and not wait for the social partners to be hunted down on these issues. There's been a lot of talk about the nurse's composition. Minister Kiuru said in the previous season, when there was no minister that it was a couple of hours' work. A year ago and a year and a half ago, when this JTS and this year's budget were discussed, the left in particular became
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u173	Mr President! That is where Mr Laakso raised the point that training is not necessarily necessary to do work. After all, we work on many bases, and someone can develop into a real expert and author by working. That is why I think it is important to develop apprenticeships in the school system, for example, in which you can then also complete a degree, and when you change your working life and lose your occupations and change the content of your work, then you would also be prepared to change your profession and not fall on top of nothing. It is therefore important, as part of this ongoing learning reform, that these people who are well-informed at work are also taken into account and developed ways and also for those who lose their jobs for various reasons, to examine what constitutes an obstacle to education. When people are asked why they do not go to education, there is at least the fact that education is not close enough, it is too expensive or it is too expensive or it is difficult to link learning with one another, so all this must be taken into account when we think about these trainings, so that we can get everyone to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u174	Mr President! In this debate several times have been referred to and recalled what happened during the previous term of government. The fact is that we can see a clear continuum in that when Sipilä's government started in 2015, the situation was quite different. Even painful measures had to be taken to restore the Finnish economy, and it was successful. Finland’s economy was regained on a sustainable basis and a positive cycle was created to improve employment throughout Finland. It is now important that we continue this work in such a way that we are really taking effective action to increase employment. It must also be borne in mind that, in the last period too, basic security was improved within the framework that could be achieved in the current economic situations. For example, there was the introduction of a guardian increase for students, three increases in the guarantee pension, a significant increase in the lowest parental allowance, and so on. And now we continue this work. Of course, when improving people’s well - being, it is central to the fact that a healthy person with the ability to work must have the opportunity but also have the zeal and the incentive to take up the work and thus participate in the construction of a fatherland. It is particularly important, as Mr Kinnunen said, that there must be different school paths and opportunities to study in such a way that different people and different learners can keep up and receive the training they need.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u175	Mr President! Looking back on this debate, the government would have had more than 6 hours to answer those questions I asked earlier in the day, and I am in the impression that there are hardly any answers to those questions. In addition to this employment, what are the concrete employment measures that the government is now going to take — Mr Kankaanniemi, in his speech. It would be interesting to hear what the government's employment measures are. The labour market organisations will consider them until next spring and then they will be implemented — it is not known what they will be able to achieve, what the impact on employment will be. In his group speech, the SDP said that he did not believe in a stick in the management of employment, but yet the Minister of Labour, Harakka, has said in the past that a stick cane can be found. Then interpret what these words mean in practice. The other issues to which I feel little answers have been received are questions of the billions: How do we react to the pressures of the rise in Finland's membership fee, the increase in the net membership fee, the deterioration in access? What do we do about it? What is being done for the ageing of the population and how to raise the birth rate of Finns will be huge questions in the future in terms of the sustainability and overall carrying capacity of the pension system. The fact that climate policy would not harm the national competitive environment too much compared to other countries — there have been few answers to it, and certainly not what is happening with regard to social reform. Does the government have any plans to take the social reform forward — other than the provincial model that still haunts the country at the request of one party.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u176	Mr President! I will continue with this speech by Mr Mäkelä when the Minister for Finance, Lintilä, is here in the ministerial box. Perhaps it would be a good thing if the Minister, on behalf of the government, were to briefly, inter alia, a representative of: The questions raised by Mäkelä could be answered in some way. I will also come back to this in the good speech by Mr Kankaanniemi to raise the pace of employment measures, let us say now. The Government has outsourced the search for employment measures to labour market organisations. It remains to be seen whether we will not hear what these measures may be until next year. In particular, I would have come back to this pay subsidy, which Mr Kankaanniemi is somewhat critical of. Indeed, as the Committee on Budgets has pointed out, many experts have considered this system of payment of pay subsidies to be a somewhat or rather inefficient system. Obviously, there should be some kind of global reform of the payment of pay subsidies, possibly planned by the government. The difference in the effectiveness of pay subsidies is, among other things, whether the wage subsidy is targeted at the company or the public sector, and also whether it is targeted at those who have been unemployed for a short time or at those who have been unemployed for a long time, part-time or older. In my opinion, the government should definitely pay more attention to this issue in the future. I would like to ask the well-informed Minister Lintilä: can you explain in more detail what action the government might be planning and bringing to the decision of the Parliament in relation to this pay subsidy?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u177	Mr President! I don't think Mr Mäkelä was in the Chamber about an hour ago when we had a brief debate on this social welfare reform. Perhaps I am thinking in such a way that when I read your objection and the 25th, your position on social reform certainly shows to me that we have the same kind of thinking in this matter: the social reform that has been carried out on the margins of the Constitution is necessary and must be carried out. It is a good starting point for us. I would also like to say that this government is now the seventh government that is trying to make a mess. I would venture to estimate that it would be in the interests of every parliamentary party that we could finally make the war. At the moment we have 190 organisers of the war and some of the resources are so weak that equality inevitably suffers. Everyone knows that it is essential that we put the responsibility for the organisation of the war on the wider shoulders and that funding should be removed from these municipalities, which are many ageing municipalities with a low number of working-age people and a low birth rate. This work is done in accordance with what has been written in the government program. I think it is important for us to have these basic laws on social reform in a year's time and then, like the Minister here, Mrs Lintilä said earlier in her own speech, in this way we could get it started, so that it is 2023 in progress. At the same time, I would also like to say that, of course, many municipalities are already in very poor condition, and the development of local authorities is bad. We know that the municipalities are faced with this interim situation, as is the case with the difficult situation. But even for municipalities, the most important thing is that local government policy is consistent, long-term and that it is given greater responsibility for organising and financing the wars from the municipalities. This is what we're doing. As I said at the outset about this effort of yours, I think this was a very wise and good statement you have here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u178	Mr President! The representative, Mr Savio, is taking on a very important and important issue in seeking employment measures other than the wage subsidy in question and, of course, there are such measures. For their part, the Finns made a shadow budget. There is little help in the direction of the government, but certainly all employment measures, whether from the opposition or from the government camp, are those that the government will be happy to use if they have reason and sufficient understanding. Here, too, earlier in the day, the speech of the Parliament Group in the centre highlighted further measures by the Centre on employment issues. There is a hot list of seven points, which will certainly be used to move forward with employment measures. Personally, I firmly believe that the government will be able to achieve this objective on this path, a courageous and energetic path, but we all realise in this Chamber that it is not an easy way to go when it comes to reaching the 75% employment rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u179	Mr President! In this regard, inspired by Mr Kivisaari, I thought a little bit more about the Minutes, in order to be sure, when he, the representative, was apparently familiar with the alternative budget of the Finns of Peru and did not remember exactly our employment-related proposals. Perhaps this is a brief list of a few. Among other things, we have had a proposal, or of course our proposal is still in force, to raise the minimum limit for the YEL contribution so that the start-up entrepreneur would only have to pay the YEL pension premium with much higher earnings. Then we have a proposal to eliminate the tax increase in fuel taxation, including, among other things, an increase in the reduction in labour income, which would certainly clearly increase employment, the cancellation of the reduction in the household allowance, EUR 92 million for small entrepreneurs, an increase in the current threshold for VAT and a corporate tax model for SMEs that employ more workers and whose owners do not raise dividends from their businesses. Here are a few options for our alternative budget. The government is also free to use these, if that is what it feels like.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u180	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 1 hour is reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u181	Mr President! So much I will return to the recent debate that I hope that the representatives will raise these issues, in particular with the Minister for Labour, which came at this final stage. I think it is right and reasonable that five hours of discussion on this subject should be sufficient and can go ahead in order. Mr President! The availability of skilled labour is among the top concerns of companies in surveys. The growth in employment must not stop in the hands of the experts. The Government's proposal to supplement the draft budget for 2020 proposes an increase of EUR 20 million for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture. The aim of continuous learning and competence development is to promote the availability of skilled labour. This appropriation is intended to contribute to the ongoing reform of learning and to the implementation of immediate, rapid-acting, employment-promoting measures. The proposal proposes an increase of a total of EUR 101 million and a reduction of a total of EUR 95 million in revenue. The main element of the supplementary draft budget relates to the veterans of our wars. The previous government already decided, and at the beginning of November a legislative amendment came into force to provide free services on behalf of the state to veterans living at home for their needs. However, the municipalities had estimated the needs for funding at a very low level, which is why it is necessary to increase the number of services to be taken home by front veterans by EUR 110 million next year. There is also an increase in the front bonus for our honourable citizens from the current EUR 50 to EUR 125 per month from the beginning of April 2020. The reason why the increase starts in April is purely due to Kela's own technical capabilities, so the start is in April. This also aims to ensure that veterans living outside the home receive support for, for example, payments for enhanced service housing. This change, like the previous legislative amendment on services to be taken home, is based on a proposal from veteran organisations. An increase of EUR 2.4 million is proposed in the operating costs of rescue operations to strengthen the operations of Kuopio Rescue College. In total, an increase of approximately EUR 1.2 million is proposed in the operating expenditure of the Natural Resources Centre for the implementation of the agricultural census 2020, the food waste monitoring and the capping directive at national level. The Ministry of Finance's section includes an increase of EUR 5.6 million in the development of state aid activities and digitalisation projects. The supplementary proposal also includes a number of additions to the operational expenditure of the various agencies and to support organisations active in different fields. Mr President! The main reason for the decrease in the revenue estimate is the Government's proposal for increased depreciation of new investments in machinery and equipment. This proposal contributes to creating a growth-friendly and investment-friendly environment for businesses. According to the proposal, investments can be reduced rapidly in taxation in all sectors, so this is a new incentive. The tax losses generated by changes in municipalities will be fully compensated for by municipalities. As a whole, the proposal will increase the net borrowing of central government by EUR 196 million. Overall, the net borrowing of central government is estimated to be EUR 2.2 billion in 2020.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u182	Mr President! Thank you to Minister Lintilä for a clear and good presentation. My grandfather is a 96-year-old war veteran from Kuusamo. Some time ago, when he moved to the service house, two photographs followed him to his wall. In the second picture is my grandfather and my late grandmother. Their paths met in an evacuee. In the second picture is seen by Marshal Mannerheim. That's the picture of the marshal I was looking at when I was a little kid at the grandmother's house. It was in grandma's living room year after year at the same place that everyone could notice. By the picture of the Marshal and the conversation with Papa, I realized that there was a man in it who did our country a great service. I also realized that every veteran and generation of war, men and women, did our country a great service. Mr President! To celebrate the 100th anniversary of independent Finland, in 2018, Statistics Finland collected a list of comparisons where Finland is at the top of the world. Here are a few comments about it: Finland is the most stable country in the world. Finland is the safest country in the world. Finland has the best administration in the world. Finland has the least organised crime in the world. Finland is the happiest country in the world. Finland has the cleanest air in the world. Finland has the highest number of forests in Europe. Finland is the most readable country in the world. Mr President! This prosperity was made possible by the veterans of our wars. They defended our country, which is in many respects the best country in the world, although we have, as we have heard today, much to improve, but there are also many good and many things to thank for. Thanks to the veterans for that. For my part, I would like to thank the whole Parliament for the fact that all the parties together decided to improve the cause of the veterans of our honourable citizens. This government proposal proposes an increase of EUR 110 million in State compensation for services to be taken home by front veterans, and just as Minister Lintilä explained, the need for an increase is based on the notification by the municipalities of the need to implement the veteran services they estimate. In addition, an increase of EUR 4.7 million is proposed for breast dishes. The breast premium will rise from the current EUR 50 to EUR 125 per month. The increase has been agreed among all parliamentary parties, as has been the case in recent years when the benefits or services of veterans have been improved. Mr President! We're about to have Fourth of July. Then, under it and at all other times, it is important to remember and take good care of veterans. “Take care of, in the absence of brothers.”
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u183	Mr President! I also welcome these extra money from the veterans. When I was in the garrison service myself, I wrote to my grandfather these words: “You did a workhouse, a religion and a fatherland—for me. It's my turn to make a contribution to tomorrow's children. Can I do it?’ Today I remember my great-grandmothers Jalmar and Eevert, my godfather Aake and all the veterans who have built us the happiest land in this world. Many sacrificed their health, many their lives. About 8,000 veterans still live in Finland. It was great that all the parties agreed on this increase in the autumn. With one thought, this front increase will be increased from the current EUR 50 to EUR 125, and the rehabilitation of the marriage mates of severely disabled persons will also be facilitated. Warm thanks to the veterans and the generations of the past. Their example teaches us gratitude, realism, and faith in the future. We love the Fatherland. It is our turn to take responsibility in the chain of generations and build this country for the children of tomorrow. Children bring joy. Today we have also had in mind the work of the so-called veteran MPs who worked here in Parliament in the past. They've been building this land, too. In particular, we are thinking today of our late colleague, Antti, whose memory we had a moment of silence today. Thank you very much. It's our turn to take care of things in common.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u184	Mr President! I agree with the previous speakers in the sense that it is important that we take care of the veterans of our wars. With this supplementary draft budget, the government will also invest in the future, invest more in education and raise funding for organisations. Both these additions are indeed necessary in view of the overall budget for next year. There has already been an in-depth debate here today on the government's employment policy. I will continue with that from the point of view of this amending budget. The labour market is undergoing a change due, among other things, to technological development, digitalisation and the climate crisis. We have every opportunity to implement structural change in an ecologically, socially and economically sustainable way. It requires investments in education and research, development and innovation in particular. In a society where the transformation of work is rapid and long careers in the same jobs in history for many people, it will be possible to decide how to better deal with jobs and factors. One key to this is flexible training paths. Mr President! To address this problem, an increase of EUR 20 million in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture is proposed for continuous learning and skills development. In order to meet workers and jobs, the opportunities for retraining and lifelong learning need to be made easier. The OECD estimates that 21% of jobs will change significantly over the next 10 to 20 years. The professions become more skilled. The pace of change is so rapid that it is only through the training of young age groups that we are unable to respond to the need for new skills. The interim report of the Permanent Learning Group of the Ministry of Education and Culture states that 80% of new jobs created require higher education skills, while jobs disappear where skills requirements are low. Of the Finns aged 30 to 60 who are currently on the labour market, around 300,000 have only gone to comprehensive school. There is therefore a great need for re-training opportunities. Opportunities must be created to retrain and develop their own skills flexibly and easily. The government is now increasing funding for this. This will contribute to the Government’s employment objective. This appropriation is intended to be used for the implementation of immediate, rapid-acting measures to promote employment. Mr President! This amending budget will also provide valuable resources for civil society. We will increase subsidies for environmental organisations, peace organisations and organisations related to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which will strengthen civil society and safeguard the capacity of these organisations for their extremely important work. I very much welcome the additional funding of EUR 400000 for nature and environmental organisations. This will ensure that we can better involve organisations in working with us to halt biodiversity loss and combat the climate crisis. Now that we have decided to make Finland carbon neutral by 2035 and to take urgent steps to halt the loss of biodiversity, it is important that civil society is strongly involved in decision-making. During this period, we will implement a number of large-scale legislative and development projects affecting the environment, including reforms of the Nature Conservation Act, the Climate Act and the Mining Act. They also require the expertise of environmental organisations. The work of organisations is needed not only as a sparring partner in decision-making but also in environmental information, environmental education and public advice. Mr President! The Natural Resources Centre is about to receive an additional EUR 1.2 million for the national implementation of Agricultural Calculation 2020, Food Waste Monitoring and the Emission Ceiling Directive. Luke’s three-year food waste monitoring and road map project, which started in spring 2018, will build a national food waste monitoring system in cooperation with industry and ministries. In spring 2019, the EU adopted a regulation requiring Member States to report their food waste to the Commission from 2020. This is an important law, because food waste is a huge waste that must be effectively reduced. A large part of food loss occurs in households. One Finn produces about 23 kilos of food waste per year at home. This means that about 125 euros of food goes straight into the trash. However, it is important to reduce food losses at all stages of the food chain. The project will hopefully find new solutions to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u185	Mr President! First of all, this veteran thing. Next Saturday will be 80 years from the outbreak of the Winter War, and in fact in a couple of weeks' time the Front Veteran Council will celebrate its 40th anniversary, so these decisions that are coming to us for discussion will be very important and also appropriate during the Independence Day. First of all, I would like to add something to this front. In this respect, it is intended that the front increase will be substantially increased to EUR 125 per month from the beginning of April. And then there's this bigger thing, that is, the services to be taken home by front veterans. Indeed, just over a year ago, all the parliamentary groups worked together to get all the brothers of the veteran organizations on the same line, to get things done, which means that all front veterans will be included in the same home services with the war veterans. And, as has now been pointed out in this supplementary proposal, this amount of money had been estimated very much on the part of the municipalities, and it is now, in fact, EUR 110 million for next year on this matter. In this connection, I would also like to point out that, in fact, in decades, there has not been too fast action against our honourable citizens. We have no more than about 8,000 veterans of our wars among us, and these decisions have been made here year on year and the population has decreased. However, I welcome the fact that it has now been possible to move this forward on this point as well. Myself, and perhaps quite a few of you, has also been in contact with the Fallen Family Federation, which has its own ideas about how war orphans should be considered, as well as the war widows that we may still have alive, perhaps some 40, and who are 98 years old in the middle. That is what I wanted to say here. I know that this cooperation and these proposals have been made in cooperation with the parliamentary groups, and I also listen to the Committee on Front Veteran Affairs, and that is probably the way to go about this. We will be discussing this proposal again in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Finally, on another point: EUR 2.4 million to be put to the Rescue College: I think it is very important. It dispels the idea that Kuopio should not be developed. This is a very good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u186	Mr President! The process is to complete the budgetary plan. A total increase of EUR 101 million is proposed and revenue estimates are reduced by EUR 95 million. The tax revenue estimate is reduced by 98 million, as the Government proposes that the acquisition of new machinery and equipment investments in taxation should be subject to double depreciation compared to regular depreciation between 20 and 23 years. This is intended to support business growth and investment opportunities. The proposal will increase the net borrowing of central government by EUR 196 million. Nevertheless, the new targets contained in the proposal are very welcome. We will improve employment and the availability of skilled labour. We will add EUR 20 million to next year's budget for continuous learning, skills development and the availability of skilled labour. Funding may be used, inter alia, for conversion and additional training and for shorter training packages complementing the current training provision. The skills of educational institutions and universities will be used to meet regional labour needs. Education is the best and most long-term way to strengthen Finland’s economy and employment. We improve everyone's chances of learning through a longer career, finding employment in the sector they want at different stages of their working lives and increasing resilience to changes in working life. The parliamentary working group on continuous learning has started preparing this comprehensive package. This includes the preparation of a financing model for continuous learning and the clarification of the roles of educational institutions, employees and employers in enabling continuous learning. The changes now proposed will also increase subsidies for environmental organisations, peace organisations and organisations related to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which will strengthen civil society and safeguard their operating conditions. An increase of EUR 400000 will be set aside for grants from natural and environmental organisations for next year. Funding will support the fact that we can better involve organisations in working with us to preserve biodiversity and halt species loss. This means that in the coming months and years a record number of natural management and restoration projects will start. The organisations are also doing important work to combat the climate crisis. The prerequisites for organisations to take action to promote human rights, to train and inform about the world political situation will be improved, and many organisations will return to the level at which they were before the last government cuts. Support for peace organisations at a time when conflicts are increasing and Finland is investing financially significantly in defence development is also quite appropriate. The role of organisations is important for society as a whole. Strong civil society will increase the opportunities for citizens to participate and contribute to the overall responsibility for sustainable development. Civil society plays an important role in the functioning of open democracy. The Government's decision strengthens the role of civil society both at home and abroad. For the Greens, ensuring the capacity of civil society is an important issue of value. High-quality work also requires sufficient resources. In our society, organisations are responsible for a great deal of competence and expertise, which we need to take care of. The changes also bear responsibility for the services of front veterans and the right to dignified old age. As Mr Kinnunen and many others have already said, each of us is reminded of the sacrifices made by our grandparents and our older generations and the stories of individuals, my grandfather and my still-living 101-year-old lottana grandmother. They did unscrupulous work for future generations, children and young people. This focus must also be maintained in our work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u187	Mr President! Today we really have had a day of mourning when Mr Antti Rantakangas has left us. I also warmly share the grief of his loved ones. I myself look back with great respect and warmth to Antti. I was with him in the Committee on Economic Affairs for one period and now in the Committee on Budgets for the last period and this period until now. We worked well together, and he was always a very fair and kind gentleman. Of course, I was particularly touched by the fact that, last Wednesday at his last sitting, he personally gave me a beautiful confession. It was very touching to my heart. It can be read there in his last speech — or it was not his last speech at that sitting, but it has been recorded at that day last; it was perhaps his third last speech. Representative Rantakangas was also a strong municipal man, including the chairman of the Municipal Development Foundation for a long time. Now that we are dealing with this budget supplement, I considered that this item ‘Citizens’support ‘opened’, although it is intended to compensate for the tax revenue losses incurred by the municipalities as a result of the dual increase in the depreciation period. That's the right thing to do, and according to the board of directors, that's what's gonna happen. It should be noted, however, that the local government economy, which was mentioned a little earlier here, is in a very worrying situation in this country. Timo Reina, Vice President of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, is responsible for the economy, wrote serious texts in his blog earlier this autumn. He noted, among other things, that the increase in the tax rate of municipalities at 23% was on average 2.2 percentage points, that of municipalities with less than 6000 inhabitants as much as 5.5 percentage points and that it was more than 3 percentage points in 187 municipalities. He also noted that the loan stock of municipalities is increasing, it is expected to increase by EUR 9.6 billion by 23 for municipalities and joint municipal authorities, i.e. by around 44 per cent, and the number of municipalities with a negative annual margin is estimated to be 123 and 152 in 23 this year, compared with 43 last year and only four in the year before. Now, of course, there will be minor changes. We know that the central government shares will increase and that the compensation for tax losses will come to the municipalities, as the present case shows, but this increase of around 1.1 billion states, which includes this compensation for tax losses, is, however, predicated money, so that in reality it does not alleviate the plight of the municipalities much, but nevertheless the situation is as Vice President Reina writes. So the situation is worrying. There, in the end, are the services of the municipalities and the people who need them, the elderly, the children and the sick. The municipalities do not have very great opportunities for adjustment. Vice President Reina notes that taxes and charges are expected to increase at a record rate, which is a poison for the development of purchasing power and employment. He then notes that investments are being reduced, postponed and prioritised, which in turn increases the debt to repair. Yt negotiations are ongoing in several municipalities and joint municipal boards, and the number is increasing. In other words, the situation is worrying, and in small rural areas it is most worrying because the outlook for demographic trends, both age and quantitative, is difficult. These factors require that the government really seriously address the questions of local government finances, and I would have liked this clarification to have responded to them and sought relief more than has been found now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u188	Mr President! Like Mr Kankaanniemi, I would like to begin by expressing my condolences to the relatives and loved ones of Antti Rantakangas for his departure. It came to us other representatives, certainly everyone, as a very big surprise and shock. As far as this supplementary draft budget is concerned, I am sure Mr Rantakangas would also have been pleased that this proposal proposes, among other things, to increase the amount of the pre-financing from the present EUR 50 per month to EUR 125 per month from the beginning of April next year. This proposal for an increase is absolutely to be welcomed, and it is clearly the best contribution to this supplementary budget as a joint proposal from the parliamentary parties. It is also an indication that the present Parliament is far more pro-veteran than, for example, the 60s and 70s, as Mr Vehviläinen has rightly pointed out. This Parliament also understands the enormous importance of the great sacrifices made by the veterans on behalf of our nation, in the face of the 80th anniversary of the Winter War. Mr President! Unfortunately, this proposal is far too late for a lot of veterans, but it is of course better that the increase is finally made. It is also important that the services already granted by Parliament to the home of front veterans should be adequately funded through this supplementary budget. Although this is not a new decision in itself, but rather a clarification of the estimate of the appropriations already allocated, it is important to ensure that the funds are sufficient for that purpose. The Finns of Peru are therefore very happy that these reforms have seen and seen the light of day and are guaranteed adequate funding after years, even decades, of expectation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u189	Mr President! There are often criticisms that ministries act as silos and are separate from each other. It is now great that the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and the Ministry of Education and Culture are working together genuinely to promote employment. In this Government proposal, to promote the availability of skilled labour, EUR 20 million will be added to the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture for this very continuous learning and development of skills, and it will be transferred from that branch of government of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy from the item of public employment and business services. The OECD report describes Finland’s challenges in this ongoing learning and its renewal. According to the report, our school system encourages only and only, or at least too much, to take part in education leading to a qualification, even though it may not always be natural. This is, of course, guided by the fact that education leading to a qualification is free of charge, is open and associated with these benefits. And of course it is sometimes very appropriate: if we change the sector completely, we will have a new degree. But it is not always the most effective way — sometimes a part of a degree or a shorter course module can be done. And the fact that adults carry out several degrees may weaken young people’s access to education. We also have shortcomings and gaps in our education provision. We lack short and working life training, we lack such alternatives to raise the level of professional competence, and I hope that this 20 million will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u190	Mr President! On the previous point, a number of contributions were made to the government's employment measures. Here we now have one important, good measure of employment, with the aim of promoting business life and giving companies more scope for action through the double depreciation of investment. This implements the centre line, we have a very important and absolutely essential condition and a condition that the government must make every effort to promote entrepreneurship in our country. One of the conditions for us to participate in the government was that company taxation should not be tightened. It is important for us that companies have a stable and predictable environment because new jobs are mainly created by small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why it is so important that we promote business life through various means and incentives, such as the double withdrawals that we are dealing with here. In this context, I would like to thank my fellow Members, Mr Kankaanniemi, Mr Kinnus, Mr Savio, all those who have beautifully remembered our fellow Members, the lost Antti Rantakangas. In this connection, too, I would like to say that now that you are looking at those flowers in the front row, the mind has stopped in such a way that it is difficult to believe that Antti is gone. But as has been pointed out here, the memory of Antis and his upbuilding, all the parties taking into account his activities bears a stand and also shows us a model. As a new representative, I was able to get to know Antti and learn a lot from him, and in many cases I leaned on him, and Antti was always happy to help and give advice and advice. And as we remember Anti, he had a good word for it, and he found good ideas for development, and he had a desire to build this common country. He also found one of those nice twinkles in his eye. It was always nice to meet him. With warmth, we remember Antti and wish his loved ones and loved ones strength and blessing in the midst of grief and divorcing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u191	Mr President! Valuable speeches, and I myself believe that Mrs Rantakangas will be watching us somewhere and will urge us to continue working for a better future and a better tomorrow. I believe that, in this debate, we will certainly agree very much with the measures taken in the draft budget for veterans, for example, for maritime innovation aid, such as the Emergency College or for double depreciation, but I do agree very much with Mrs Kinnuse that this response to the availability of skilled labour is one of the important measures that the government is going to take as a measure in the draft budget. So from next year's budget, this EUR 20 million will be allocated to fast-acting training and employment services. Such new funding complements existing training opportunities and improves preparedness for changes in working life. It is a fact that there is a shortage of labour in many places in Finland, and with such small, agile and rapid precision training, people can be qualified in sectors that require more factors. Of course, these conversion and additional training and other support measures should be launched in areas where there is a shortage of skilled labour. The aim is, of course, to allow access to training in addition to work and to start training as quickly as possible so that the challenges of labour shortages can be met.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u192	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u193	Mr President! This very wide-ranging draft law mainly contains technical changes. In the Committee on Transport and Communications, we have started expert consultations on this package and tomorrow we will continue. As one aspect of this whole, I would like to point out that efforts are being made to improve the advice of private roads when it is transferred to the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency. Up to now, the municipal road boards have provided advice on non-assistance matters, but they were abolished following the entry into force of the new private road law last year. After all, we have plenty of private roads in Finland, along which the lives of people living in different parts of Finland have been changed by the law that came into force last year. In my municipality of residence in Oulu, for example, the private roads assisted by the city have been about 800 kilometres. Municipalities can make different decisions on how to assist these private roads, but the important message for municipalities too is that the Red Mule Government wants to support the private roads and the budget for next year is set at EUR 20 million. It is now important to ensure that state subsidies for private roads are distributed equally and smoothly throughout Finland, that we keep the private roads in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u194	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 11/2019 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u195	Mr President! Report 11/2019 by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on the Government's proposal to amend Articles 1 and 2 of the Act on the application of certain obligations laid down in the Law on the restructuring of municipalities and services and Articles 3 and 7 of the Act temporarily restricting certain legal acts of municipalities and joint municipal boards in the field of social welfare and health care. The purpose of the proposal is that the co-operation areas established during the reform of the municipal and service structures should not be dismantled prior to the entry into force of the reform of the social and health structures in accordance with Prime Minister Antti Rinte's Government Programme, nor would it make it difficult for the future new provinces to decide on services in the region as a whole, in line with the needs and on an equal footing with the needs of the inhabitants of the region. The extension of the obligations under the Municipal and Service Structure Reform Act, the so-called Paras-Framework Act, is intended to ensure that the cooperative areas already established by municipalities continue to operate in such a way as not to jeopardise access to social and health services or to impose additional costs. It is proposed to extend these obligations until the end of 2023. The aim is to secure the services until the new regions responsible for organising social welfare and health care are established. The amendments to the Act on the temporary limitation of certain legal acts of municipalities and joint municipal boards in social and health care, the so-called restriction law, are intended to ensure that new regions formed on the basis of the social welfare reform have the opportunity to modify the service structure in accordance with the needs of the residents and on an equal basis. In addition, it is intended to prevent the conversion of production structures in such a way as to reduce their conversion to the needs of the whole region. It is proposed to extend the limitation law until the end of 2025. In addition, the Restrictive Act proposes to strengthen the obligation to include the condition of dismissal in outsourcing contracts, the value of which alone or in combination with other contracts exceeds 15 % of the annual expenditure of social and health care under the responsibility of the municipality or joint municipal authority. In the current law, the limit is 30%. The committee notes that the proposed amendment of the provision on the condition of dismissal does not prevent municipalities and joint municipal authorities from acquiring services from private service providers and from concluding contracts on access to real estate and premises to the extent they still wish. As stated in the explanatory memorandum to the proposal, the contract may include a condition for the possibility of termination to increase the costs of municipalities for contracts covered by the proposed regulation, since the condition of termination is taken into account in the pricing of contracts, in particular in the remaining years. The Committee considers it important that future social and health service providers should be given the opportunity to make use of the resources available in the region as larger entities than long-term total outsourcing agreements would allow. In its opinion to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs notes that there are still strong grounds for the proposed restrictive measures. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses that the reform of social and health care must be carried out in a controlled manner and in a way that safeguards fundamental rights. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the lengthening of the period of validity of the laws intended to be fixed-term laws is not entirely without problems. The adoption of the extension of the restriction law amounts to a total of almost 10 years. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers that, taking into account the expected scope of the social reform, extensions can be considered acceptable. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers that the extension of laws and other amendments are necessary for the implementation of the reform of social welfare and health care and for the functioning of the service system. The committee shares the view of the Constitutional Committee that the impact of the restriction law must be closely monitored and any possible shortcomings must be addressed without delay. The committee also considers it important that the government's proposals on social welfare reform be submitted to Parliament in such a way as to allow sufficient time for its parliamentary deliberations. The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u196	Mr President! I announced in the referral that I consider this government proposal to be very necessary in all its aspects. Now I can say with satisfaction that, as the chairman of the committee said, the committee has produced a unanimous report on this matter. In addition, I believe that the committee has given just the right attention to this issue. It makes sense to maintain the cooperation areas without any development which would be difficult in the future in the context of the reform of social security. Of course, this restriction law is problematic in that it is a restriction on the autonomy of municipalities. However, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also said, this is temporary and has certain flexibilities and this condition of dismissal is quite appropriate. At the time, this did not appear in the referral debate to the effect that dismissal could become an additional cost. Of course, it's natural for them to come. When contracts are separated, it causes losses to the other contracting party, which may have to be compensated by the other, the outgoing side. It has now been taken into account that this is happening. I also think that lowering outsourcing from 30% to 15% is quite appropriate, precisely because the social reform, which I hope will move forward vigorously, will then be able to operate in a rational and controlled manner. Finally, as the President-in-Office said, the overall time will be long for this restriction law. This type of procedure should not be so long in itself, but we all know that we have not reached any decisions here on social reform. It is a matter so big and so important that it must be dealt with in this way. Mr President! However, I now appeal to the government to speed up this social reform on the one hand and, on the other hand, to have a parliamentary institution monitor it and direct it, because it is a reform at that provincial level, which is not a government-opposition issue, but, indeed, the whole issue of the people and the issue of local government, more than it is in the interests of the state administration, even if it is in the interests of everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u197	The 13th item of the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. At second reading, it is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, it will be decided at the sole reading on the initiative of the measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u198	Ärade Herr Talman! Finland borde i likhet med flera andra lännder läja att inte lägga en extra skatt på frukt- och bärsafter då de inte innehåller tillsatt socker. Finland har i dag en punktskatt på läskedrycker som ämtar in betydande summor till statsbudgeten. Punktskatten föreslås nu hojas. Förslaget om höjning av punktskatten på läskedrycker gäller dock alla drycker som innehåller me n 0,5 percent socker. Det auriinnebär att aven naturligt framställda bär- och fruktsafter beskattas på mosma sätt som kolsyrade läskedrycker, trots att många saftprodukter är framställda utan processat socker och tilsatsämnen. Dessa kan jalsomässigt därför inte Jämstallas med kolsyrade läskedrycker trots att de innehåller you give socker, naturligt fruktsocker, för det är en skillnad på processat som används i bland you give läskedrycker och concentratjuicer och naturligt som finns naturligt i frukt och bär som används då man gör juice, saft och must uta tilsatsämnen. Irade the Talman! Produktionen av färskpressade bär-och fruktdrycker är en krävande produktion med stora mervärden som har blivet en viktig bisyssla för många frukt- och bärodlare i hela landet, vilket stödjer en Levande landsbygd. Produktionen av bland give äppelmust har också minskat på finländska fruktodlares svinn och ekonomiska utsatthet. Då hagelstormar tidigare förstört äppelskördar och äpplena behövt slängas kan i dag åtminstone en del av skördens värde räddas genom att man kan göra äppelmust av de äpplen som träffats av hagel. Det är så klart också bra för milön att kunna ta tillvara på råvaror så att man minimerar svinnet. Irade the Talman! För bär-och fruktsafter påverkar kattehöjningen prisbilden effectsom marginalerna är så små och saften därför blir dyrare för konsumenten. Kolsyrade läskedrycker och Koncentrat har ofta en produktion med högre marginaler så att en kattehöjning inte i läsäg grad behöver påverka deras utgångspris i handeln för konsumenter. Det auri visas tydligt i de grafer och den statistik som finns som underlag för för förslaget. Det finns också flera exempel på lännder som har valt atte alls beskatta bär- och fruktsafter utan tilsatt socker, och bara sju länder inom EU uppbär en likande punktbeskattning som Finland. Under förra mandatperioden lämnade jag därför in ett skriftligt spörsmål som föreslog att man i punktbeskattningen skulle spärskilja frukt- och bärsafter från produkter med tilsat socker med heivsning till att de rent älsomässigt inte kan Jämstäs. Dossutom skulle det ge våra små musterier bättre öjlighet att verka och överleva i kkonkurrensen precis enligt samma logik som vi i dag för mikro- och små ölbryggerer har en lättnad i accisen med hevisning till bland you give ders sysselsätände effekt. Irade the Talman! Det är något jag och många andra har fortsatt att drivea. Konkreta förslag på hur detta kunde genomföras utan att det skulle snedvrida knkurrensen har också lyfts fram i utskottets sakkunnighöranden. Det är också glädjande att utskottet bland let hört äppelodlare i sina sakkunnighöranden. Finansutskottet föreslår nu ett uttalande där man förutsätter att finansministeriet utreder om punktskatten på läskedrycker kan ändras så att bär- och fruktsafter undantas från Skatten. Denna utredning förutsätts att lämnas till ricksdage under vårsessionen nasta år i enlighet med vad som också står i regeringsprogrammet. Det är är ett mycket bra uttalande och ännu ett steg på vägen framåt. Det ger stöd i det fortsata arbetet som nu görs i den ar frågan. Irade the Talman! Naturligt framställda livsmedelsprodukter är en nordisk specialitet och en grundpelare i en livskraftig landsbygd. Inhemska producer av bär- och fruktsafter utan tilsatt socker skulle få förbättrade verksamhetsförutsättningar om man skulle särskilja dem från läskedryckerna i punktbeskattningen. Det auri är något jag hoppas på att vi kan besluta om nasta år. — Tack.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u199	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 22 November 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u200	A 16th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u201	Mr President! The proposal introduces amendments to the Law on the Financing of Regional Development and Structural Fund Projects which will allow the mobilisation of an appropriation to support the growth and vitality of the regions set out in the State budget. This appropriation would replace the previous appropriation for innovation and experimentation in the regions. The package of regional development and urban policy includes a more detailed approach to contractual or programmed cooperation with cities and regions in connection with the Government's decision on regional development, as well as development projects based on the strengths of regions, which will be launched quickly. In addition, this appropriation could be used for the implementation of the national urban strategy and the regional urban programme as well as metropolitan policy as provided for in the Government Programme. Excellent. According to the Violent Finland package of the Government Programme, the role of regional councils as regional development authority will continue. Unions will be allocated rapid and flexible regional development funding. This appropriation is intended to support the independent development of regions and regional centres, to reform the economic structure and to respond to restructuring situations. Mr President! I am delighted that the government is taking a stronger stance on behalf of the provinces of Finland. There's a lot of work to do. It is social equality and justice. Every corner of the house is equally valuable. This is also an important step towards the need for a contractual urban policy instrument for every province. The government is pushing into a situation that has been prevalent in the city region of Seinäjoki, for example. It has been the role of some medium-sized provincial cities and their sub-regions in urban policy. The Association of Southern Ostrobothnia and the Seinäjoen urban region have drawn attention to the prevailing national urban policy and are proposing a broader picture of regional policy as a whole. Now, the non-university centres of the Seinäjoen urban area, but with high development potential, have threatened to be in the middle of a fall. They need support for the strengthening of ecosystems, urban development, the design and implementation of enterprise, knowledge and innovation policies. The extension of the urban population in various urban policies should lead to an equal end. Fortunately, the government's will is in this direction. The Government takes into account regional centres and their sub-regions. The aim of the new regional policy is to give people freedom and the opportunity to choose where to build their lives. It is based on the strengths of different parts of the country. President! The government's proposal is very welcome. It is the road of a new, whole Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u202	Mr President! There has been a lot of talk about local government finances here today. It is also the subject of a lot of discussion in the Administrative Committee and needs to be continued in order to safeguard the sustainable finances of municipalities. The issue now to be decided is national support for sustainable growth and vitality in regions and cities. EUR 20 million has been earmarked for next year. The amount of EUR 15 million will be used through contractual cooperation to achieve the main objectives of the Government Programme. It is therefore important that these funds also be used to implement the main objectives of the Government Programme: to mitigate climate change and safeguard biodiversity, to modernise the economy and strengthen innovation centres, to strengthen knowledge and education, to increase inclusion and prosperity, and to prevent inequalities. Mr President! Although the money is allocated to the regions, the aid is also intended for urban policy implementation. It is worth doing so in close cooperation with the cities. The national urban strategy is due to be completed next spring. The Ministry of Finance is responsible for preparing it. This work must be started without delay, and cities should also be involved in doing so. Cities play a key role in solving the challenges of the future. It is therefore important that, even if money is now decided to support the sustainable growth and vitality of regions and cities through the provinces, the cities will also be involved from the outset. I also welcome the objective of promoting interregional cooperation and networking. It is also important to monitor the results of this money. Mr President! Taking care of the vitality of cities is in the interests of Finland as a whole. The question that goes beyond the form of national aid that is now being decided is how to direct the funds for the new EU Structural Funds period. They must also take into account partnerships with cities, in order to ensure their sustainable growth and vitality. The Sustainable Urban Development Programme has so far been successfully implemented by the six largest cities in the framework of the 6Aika project. It has produced impressive results with relatively small funding. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the future programming period also ensures adequate resources for effective cooperation between cities, inter alia, in the development of carbon-neutral solutions, the provision of quality training and the promotion of effective employment measures. Cities are an important partner for us when we solve major challenges for the future. In particular, we need to identify the challenges of large cities and the metropolitan area as a locomotive for the whole of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u203	Mr President! Indeed, in the past, the provinces have used such fast-to-use forms of financing, and they are very good. In this legislation, too, on several occasions, and in particular on the basis of a good report by the Committee on Administrative Affairs, a number of points have been recorded as ‘regional self-development’, based on their ownstrategy... I think it is very important for the regions to recognise their own strengths, create their own good strategies, and thus start to implement them, including in this area, where innovation environments are possible. I am also looking at these subcontracting chains, but most importantly — we have been waiting here for 15 years to see the direction in which our service restructuring is going — it will also lead to future service structures. It is important to cooperate with the regional cities and also with the multilateral cooperation that is sought through, among other things, this cooperation and cooperation between the labour administration and municipalities, which also affects our business life and labour shortages. So I see this as a multi-pronged opportunity and a cross-disciplinary opportunity across various sectors, and if it is well used there in the province, this is a very good tool. Here the previous speakers have also commented on this urban strategy, and I do see that Finland should have a strong urban strategy in addition to this rural strategy, because we have very similar problems in urban neighbourhoods as well as in villages. And also through such open, self-sustaining development funding, we can work well with urban neighbourhoods and villages and look at their need for services, their need for knowledge, and then also the solutions to the pain points that come from the strength of its growth. So all of this is a good financial instrument for the Regional Unions. I also hope that this 2%, which will then be used for these national projects, will guide the search for further international capabilities for the development of urban areas and also for what would benefit, and also for those projects, to listen to the will of the provinces themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u204	Mr President! In the referral debate, I also touched on this issue a little bit, and as such I considered the government's proposal to be all right. The committee seems to have unanimously accepted it, thank you for that. The problem we face is the differences between regions and the fact that the development of regions in general is in very serious difficulties. Back in the day, we had the county development money in the budget, but it's melted away. Now, of course, it is a positive feature that this government has returned this 20 million, which is a good start but quite inadequate, of course, in relation to the needs that are there. And when this 20 million is divided into three parts and in this way, in a way, it is tied up in advance, so that the provinces will not be able to use it on their own, as a democratic system in principle requires, there is of course no big celebration of this now. The fact that, under the hand and fist of Brussels, our regional and structural policy, as well as agriculture, is very strongly tied and tied up through it makes it even more difficult. Of course, it is a problem that we are paying a huge amount of money in Brussels and even more in the future than we can get back, and when something comes back from it, for example, to regional and structural policy, it is already very bureaucratic money. So I call for the return of national, Finnish, patriotic regional policy, which began the Centre Party of Finland in the 1960s and 1970s with merit, which has now become such a paper war and ineffective in many respects. I hope that this will not lead to that now, but that the provinces will really be revived. Of course, when we have 20 provinces and 20 million dollars, some of which have already been tied up in a way, it is certainly not worth waiting for the results.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u205	Mr President! I agree with Mr Kankaanniemi' s views on a number of these issues, but on the other hand, at least in this report - and I hope our bureaucrats will accept this - it has been said that this money will be made available through as light bureaucracy as possible and flexiblely as possible. The second point of departure is, of course, that when a regional strategy is drawn up and then funding for various development projects is sought — I hope that this will be a lever for funding that we can apply for and that we can better apply for Horizon funding in the province, for example. These partnerships with universities, entrepreneurs and thus funding opportunities would be sought. Just as Mr Kankaanniemi said, we are paying a lot of money there and we need to learn that system even better. Let us hope that there will also be a signal to the regions to open up their sources of funding. It's not a very simple project to go for Horizon money. It is a long-term job and, in fact, funding is already needed to apply for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u206	Mr President! I think it is important that, in this debate too, we also recognise the need for autonomous urban development and we see that these cities also bring growth to the whole province. I would now like to raise the situation in Uusimaa. Uusimaa is a very strong growing province that also needs support for the development of the region. A good example of this is higher education start-up places, which are far less than elsewhere in relation to those graduating from the matriculation examination. The committee also drew attention to the flexible use of this money, and we were assured that this is a simple system of how to apply for it. I also support this idea that we should be able to make wider use of EU money. However, it has a huge potential to make money in Finland. For example, the province of Uusimaa is working increasingly closely with the cities of the region, especially the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. It is also reflected in the strategy. In other words, I think that cities should also be seen as a resource for the provinces in that we are gaining vitality and jobs in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u207	Mr President! I very much hope that this could be used as leverage, or by what Mr Pirttila said it would be, but still as part of national funding, which could, as it were, be replicated alongside EU funding. True, the amount is rather small and the importance is small. When it comes to what Mrs Elo said that this should also be used in cities and in Uusimaa – some cities in Uusimaa are called Helsinki, Espoo, Vantaa and Kauniainen. If we start doing this regional policy here, then, of course, we are a long way from the original thinking. In other words, we should not go to the point where this money should also be distributed to the cities. I understand urban policy as such and its needs, but it may not be about this kind of money, but about the fact that these cities, for example in the cities of the south, must pay attention to social factors, and urban policy, which the city itself is pursuing, is dealing with the problems and the employment aspect is also being taken more into account than is currently the case. Employment testing may be a factor in favour of supporting it, and it involves dealing with cities or urban areas. And the fact is that they will solve the positive development of employment. This money — I think it is a bit misleading to speak with this name if this is used for the financing of Helsinki-Turku-Tampere.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u208	Chairman! I just wanted to say in this debate that it is Uusimaa too. And when I referred to the NEW TIME project in my speech, it also includes Oulu as a northern city, and of course I do not deny it in any way. Then, in the urban strategy, we will certainly take the towns and the rest into account. But I think it is important that, when we talk about the region, we recognise that cities are also regions and important locomotives in their regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-26-ps-70.u209	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented for part, in part, for the second reading. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on 10/2019, it will be decided on the basis of a single reading of the agreement and then on the basis of a second reading of the legislative proposals.
