ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u1	For the sole reading, item 2, the Government's Communication to Parliament on the Government Programme of Prime Minister Antti Rinte, appointed on 6 June 2019, will be presented. The debate on the communication ended at the plenary session on 12 June 2019. In the debate, Mr Ville Tavio Jani Mäkelä, supported by Mr Petteri Orpo Sinuhe Wallinheimo and supported by Mr Sari Essayah Päivi Räsänen, have put forward proposals for a motion of censure to the Government. The proposals have been distributed to representatives on a multiplicity basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u2	The proposals must be put to the vote. The vote will take place first on Ville Tavio's proposal against Sari Essayah's proposal, then on the winning Petteri Orpo's proposal, and finally on whether the Government enjoys the confidence of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u3	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The matter shall be referred to the Constitutional Committee, to which other specialised committees may deliver an opinion by 30 September 2019 at the latest.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u4	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I am pleased and honoured to present to you the report of the Parliamentary Ombudsman for 2018. [Fresh—The President-in-Office] As usual, at the beginning of the report, the Ombudsman and the assistant ombudsmen speak on a subject of their own choice. In my own speech, I will address the rights of the elderly from the point of view of the institution of the Ombudsman. The activities and findings of the Ombudsman in the monitoring and promotion of the rights of the elderly are set out in a separate section of the report. In my speech, I will address the question of the role and powers of the Ombudsman in monitoring and promoting the rights of the elderly and how they differ from those of other supervisory authorities. Let me just say briefly: The Ombudsman has extensive access to information and extensive powers to take action to remedy any shortcomings he or she has identified. Since the elderly and their relatives rarely complain, the Ombudsman’s competence to carry out inspections and to take their own initiatives on the basis of them or otherwise is central. The Ombudsman is a general judicial officer. When the powers of other supervisory authorities are limited to certain rights, such as those relating to social and health care services, the Ombudsman controls not only them but also all other rights of the elderly. The role of the Ombudsman as a general judicial officer is also reflected in the fact that the Ombudsman supervises the exercise of the rights of the elderly in all public authorities and in all private individuals exercising a public function, regardless of the administrative authority or operator concerned. For example, the transformation of public authorities services into electronic services could jeopardise the availability of services for older people in all administrative sectors. The Ombudsman therefore controls all rights of the elderly in all administrative sectors. This is the main difference between the other supervisory authorities. The Ombudsman is also the supreme judicial officer. This means that the Ombudsman monitors not only the operators providing services to the elderly and their own control, but also all the authorities responsible for supervision. Only the Ombudsman can monitor the functioning and coverage of the entire control system. Overall, the role and perspective of the Ombudsman is wider than those of other supervisory authorities. I would add that the Ombudsman's Office is accompanied by a Human Rights Centre with a human rights mission. The Ombudsman, the Human Rights Centre and the Human Rights Delegation together form the Finnish National Institute for Human Rights. This institutional structure is highly appropriate, inter alia, for the promotion and monitoring of the rights of the elderly. Ms Sakslin, Assistant Ombudsman, will examine the Ombudsman's activities in the monitoring of the rights of the child: The rights of the child are guaranteed in our Constitution and in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The Ombudsman's activities pay particular attention to the monitoring of these rights. The judicial review of the rights of the child has been one of the Ombudsman's special tasks for more than 20 years. The monitoring of the legality of children’s rights was strengthened in 1998 at the time of the establishment of the second Deputy Ombudsman. Every year, 300 400 cases of child law enforcement are settled in the Ombudsman’s Office. Most of the solutions concern social care. The second most important issue of children's rights was the issue of early childhood education and basic education. However, the number of complaints made by children themselves is small. It is therefore important for the Ombudsman to be able to intervene in the illegal or otherwise reprehensible treatment also on his own initiative and by carrying out inspections. In carrying out his duties, the Ombudsman attaches great importance to the debate with children, particularly with children taken into care. The Child Ombudsman and the Ombudsman shall be considered jointly to constitute independent national control under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The monitoring of the implementation of children's rights is in particular the task of the Parliamentary Ombudsman. As the supreme judicial officer, the ombudsman has extensive access to information and extensive powers. The role of the Ombudsman for Children is, in particular, to promote the interests and rights of the child by bringing these aspects into the context of social debate and decision-making. The role of the child’s rights in the Ombudsman’s law enforcement has been strengthened. The task could therefore be identified in the legislation as a specific task for the Ombudsman. — I therefore saw Ms Maija Sakslin, Assistant Ombudsman. In his speech, Assistant Ombudsman Pasi Hölönen deals with the special role of the Ombudsman for nearly a hundred years in the control of the rights of those who have lost their freedom: It is the Ombudsman who is responsible for the supervision of closed institutions, namely the Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice. This role is supported and enhanced by the Ombudsman’s mandate as a national supervisory body under the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention against Torture. In the area of judicial control, the weight of inspections is higher than their number. The number of inspections corresponds to approximately 2% of the annual number of complaints, but around 10% of the work force of the rapporteurs in the Office is used for inspections. Most of the inspections have just been carried out on closed facilities. The inspections are comprehensive and one inspection can lead to a number of activities by the law enforcement officer. The effective steering effect of online contributions is considerable. Clearly, most inspections of closed institutions are carried out in the field of social welfare administration. However, due to the large number of establishments, only a small fraction of thousands of installations can be inspected. Police prisons, prisons and closed health units can be checked more regularly and with greater coverage. Recently, the Ombudsman's work has been increasingly focused on the inspection of elderly and child units, such as care homes and child protection units. The activities of older people's units and of children's units can also be a restriction of freedom, and for this reason, but not only, they must be subject to effective supervision. — I therefore saw Assistant Ombudsman Pasi Owlönen. Mr President! Following these interventions, the report provides an overview of the Ombudsman’s activities in 2018. It contains information on issues and measures, as well as on various domestic and international events. During the reporting year, we received some 5,600 complaints. This is the second largest number ever. Despite the large number of complaints, we were able to resolve the complaints in such a way that no complaints were pending at the end of the year. This is the sixth time in a row that this objective has been achieved. However, it must be noted that the staff of the Office have worked at the extremes of their ability to cope. Approximately 80 initiatives were taken and resolved. Over 800 of all complaints and own initiatives, or around 15%, led to the Ombudsman’s actions. This percentage of measures is very high in international comparisons. In the reporting year, inspections were carried out on nearly 130 sites. This is one of the greatest inspections of all time. About half of them were unannounced, so-called surprise inspections. The next broad section of the report, number 3, deals with fundamental and human rights. This period has been included in the report since the entry into force of the fundamental rights reform in 1995 as requested by the Constitutional Committee. This section includes the Ombudsman's activities in specific tasks based on international conventions. These are, first of all, the role of the National Supervisory Body under the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention against Torture, the so-called OPCAT mission. The task of the national supervisory body shall be to carry out inspections at places where persons who have lost their liberty are kept. I would stress that this is not only about prisoners or people in police custody, for example, but also about the elderly, children, psychiatric patients and persons with mental disabilities. In fact, most of the missions of the National Supervisory Body have been carried out in the social welfare and health care services. The second specific role of the Ombudsman is based on the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The Ombudsman, together with the Centre for Human Rights and its human rights delegation, shall act as a structure for promoting, protecting and monitoring the exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities. As in previous years, the fundamental and human rights section has also reported on the Ombudsman's fundamental and human rights mandate and the Human Rights Centre and its activities. The Human Rights Centre gives its own report, but it is not a Parliament document and it is not dealt with in the same way as the Ombudsman's report. In addition, this report's basic and human rights period contains a list of ten key Finnish fundamental and human rights problems, which in previous years has sparked debate here in Parliament. The list has been updated. There have been positive developments in the elimination of certain shortcomings, but on the other hand some shortcomings have been identified more frequently than in the past. The basic and human rights sections have also reported on the Ombudsman’s proposals for compensation and on matters leading to amicable solutions. These issues reflect the ways in which the Ombudsman’s Office has taken action to help people gain their rights. The section also deals with the theme of basic and human rights of the year. Every year we have a specific theme of fundamental and human rights, which will be raised, among other things, through all the inspections. The theme of the reporting year was the right to privacy. The section also includes the Ombudsman’s fundamental rights statements, based on complaints settled in the reporting year and own initiatives. Finally, the section deals with all complaints against Finland in the reporting year before the European Court of Human Rights. It is gratifying that the Court of Human Rights issued no judgment on Finland during the reporting year. The fourth section of the report is the most extensive, administrative or case-by-case section of the findings made in the field of law enforcement. In this context, I shall not go any further. Finally, the development of the division of duties between the Parliamentary Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice, which has been raised several times here in Parliament, has now begun. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for example, has been busy several times. As mentioned in this annual report, the Ministry of Justice set up a working group to prepare for this development of the division of labour and, in May this year, the working group has submitted its report. My wish is that this development of the division of duties between the Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice could proceed to Parliament's legislative measures on the basis outlined by that working party. I do not believe that the current overlapping system between the two supreme judicial authorities is the most effective and appropriate system for society and citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u5	Mr President! Once again, thank you to the Ombudsman for the extensive report — which I have now only been able to browse because this is such a very thick document. I'm going to get to know it very carefully. From the headlines, there seems to be very similar things there than in many previous years. Again among the ten main fundamental and human rights problems are shortcomings in the conditions and treatment of the elderly, shortcomings in the protection of children, shortcomings in the exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities and restrictions on self-determination. I have not really been able to go into this report but superficially, so I would like to highlight a couple of problems that have come up against me under these headlines. President! Finland has ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which aims to guarantee people with disabilities an independent life and inclusion in society and society. In practice, the realisation of a self-like life requires, for example, the right to an interpretation service, a personal assistant and a transport service. These services ensure that disabled persons can live on an equal footing with others, work and earn money, and participate in hobbies and events and events of their choice. The transport service for people with severe disabilities is a subjective right, i.e. the municipality has an absolute obligation to organise, and according to the law, the municipality must provide a person with severe disabilities with reasonable transport services with associated escort services if a person with disabilities or illness requires a service to perform everyday activities. Unfortunately, in many places in Finland today, due to the reform of this taxi law and the introduction of various transport hubs, transport services for people with disabilities are no longer functioning in the desired way. Of course, there have been shortcomings in the past, but things seem to be getting a little worse. I have received a lot of public feedback from disabled people about poor access to taxis, waiting times and uncertainty about return rides. The rides must be ordered hours in advance, and it does not always guarantee access to the rides. Often the subscriber has had to wait for long periods of uncertainty whether the ordered car will arrive at all. The equal rights of persons with disabilities to inclusion in society will therefore in no way be realised. Many people with disabilities have also reported that the new Act on Transport Services has significantly reduced the legal security of people with disabilities and the possibilities for safe movement. For disabled people, such as changes in on-call and station positions and the elimination of driver training obligations and the lack of a local knowledge section of the driver test have been weakened. I understand that the Ombudsman has also recently received a number of complaints about transport services for disabled people. Mr President! According to the international definition, memory disorders are neurologically disabled diseases. They can be prevented, treated and rehabilitated. Treatment and rehabilitation can slow down disease progression, maintain functional capacity and increase quality of life. This is now being interpreted in very different ways across Finland, i.e. whether it is a neurological disability disease or not. In some places, a person with a memory disorder receives services under the Disability Services Act, in some places not. For example, transport services under the Disability Services Act and the services of a personal assistant would make life easier for many people living at home with memory problems and would also extend the possibilities of living at home. Legislation should be so clear that people do not end up in an unequal situation depending on where they live in Finland. We therefore urgently need a new disability service law that will provide clarity on these issues. We have been discussing the Government Programme here in Parliament for two days, and for the memory-disadvantaged, the Government Programme has a positive emphasis on an accessible society as a good society for all. During the forthcoming government term, new solutions to the housing of older people, such as community housing and the construction of community homes, will also be developed. The specific needs of people with memory disorders and the security of the housing of an ageing population will be better taken into account. I am glad that the Government Programme now speaks of the concept of community home, because words matter. ‘Efforted service housing memory unit ‘hears from the From the point of view of care and care, it is important to understand that at a time when a memory ill can no longer be in his own home, he does not need institutional care, but he needs 24-hour care and care in domestic conditions. On the other hand, we must make special efforts to develop home care, because the success or failure of home care will determine how we will deal with the challenges of the future of care and care. Although it is difficult to prepare carers for home care, it should in some ways be ensured that employers are better equipped to assess the number of employees required in home care. Work pressure there is excessive in many places and therefore the quality of care and the right of customers to good care suffer. In addition to human resources, there is also a need for a whole new way of thinking and new ways of working in home care. We have too much emphasis on home-care services that can pass an elderly person inside four walls. We have far too many elderly people who will never get out. I think this is a serious violation of human rights. Instead of taking home services, the most important element in maintaining the functional capacity of home care customers is getting out of the home to move and engage in various activities, and this requires transport services and also personal assistance services. On the other hand, it would be important to remember that the boundaries of home care are also met at some point, and, for example, a person who does not remember to eat or drink or know how to go to the bathroom is no longer a customer of home care. For him, a better and more humane place would be a community home. At the moment, there are people with memory disorders whose right and human place is no longer there in their own home. The mantra in our society, which says that it is always best for all elderly people to be in their own homes, has led to inhumane situations. There will be plenty of work to be done to monitor the rights of older people, and hopefully a new Ombudsman for the elderly will be elected as soon as possible. The joint work of the Ombudsman and the new delegate, on the one hand, and the division of labour, on the other hand, must be carefully planned. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u6	Mr President! This is an important point in the Ombudsman's report, which is precisely the rights of the elderly, to which attention has been paid. As is known and it is said here too, THL claims that there are 93,000 of these elderly service customers, less than 60% of whom are in home care and then the rest are in 24-hour care. These shortcomings are constantly evident. This big report at the end of the last parliamentary term on the shortcomings in the services of the elderly came under the supervision of the Regional State Administrative Agency and Valvira, and as a result, among other things, at the end of the parliamentary term, Parliament added three additional staff years to the Ombudsman's supervision. But this isn't good enough for anything. Now that I have to take some bigger steps, I'm actually appealing to the Social Democrats. As Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen has just given a speech, so these speeches have been made during the last parliamentary term and also during the 2011 parliamentary term – now is no longer enough, now is the time for action. You have the keys, you have the money, you have the resources — take care of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u7	I have drawn up replies to the representatives of Östman, Guzenina and Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u8	Mr President! As has been said, the Ombudsman is currently monitoring the rights of the elderly. I'm glad someone's watching. I would also like to thank Mr Mäkisalo-Roppo for a very good speech. I hope that the government will carry out all the things that were discussed in his speech. The KD has called for the Finnish Parliament and the Government to act in favour of the establishment of the post of Ombudsman for the elderly in our country, because older people need a spokesperson, especially an Ombudsman for the elderly, who has become familiar with their affairs and defends the role of the elderly in society. So that KD will at least be supported if the government implements this project.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u9	Mr President! This report by the Parliamentary Ombudsman is in a way a report on how Finnish welfare society treats the most vulnerable, and the focus on elderly people, disabled people and children is particularly important. Indeed, more than 5000 complaints were lodged in the reporting year 2018 — the second highest since these inspections were carried out or since the Ombudsman’s office existed. This should make every one of us sound alarm bells. Fundamental rights belong to everyone, regardless of age, and that is why the Rinte government has really wanted to invest in people, to strengthen services, to recognise the pains of society and to remedy these shortcomings. When Mr Östman called for this post to be set up as an Ombudsman for the elderly, it is there in the government programme, it is coming. Now we have to do everything we can to ensure that no more newspaper headlines in Finland are forced to read in which children who are in child welfare have been mistreated or the elderly have been mistreated.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u10	Replys to the representatives Kiljunen, Koskinen, Juvonen, Alanko-Kahiluoto, Lindén and Mäkisalo-Ropponen last.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u11	Mr President! The Parliamentary Ombudsman institution has also been internationally recognised as important, for example, in law enforcement, and a great deal has been done to monitor it by building similar institutions elsewhere. I found it valuable that there was a strong chapter in this report specifically on the rights of the elderly and the supervision of services for the elderly, and this spring there has been quite a wide-ranging debate on the problems of supervision and care services. I know that municipalities have a primary responsibility to control, Valvira has a role to play. It was also valuable to hear from the Ombudsman that this judicial review is being carried out here. In all the speeches that have been made, reference has been made to this establishment of an ombudsman or ombudsman for the elderly, which, according to the government programme, will take place, and I wanted to ask the Ombudsman: have you already considered the division of labour, planned how cooperation will be built up and what kind of new elements we will then be able to get into this legal control?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u12	Mr President! My speech relates to exactly the same thing as Mr Screeching. — The Ombudsman’s initial review of the judicial review of the old age field is very thorough and well thought out. Perhaps you could read between the lines that it would have preferred the Ombudsman to have the powers and possibilities of the Ombudsman's Office to improve this control, and that would probably be necessary regardless of these other solutions. My question is the same as that raised by Mr Screaming. With this decision on the role of the Ombudsman and the establishment of an office for the elderly, what is the Ombudsman's position? Should it be linked in the same way as the division of duties between the Ombudsman’s Ombudsman and the Ombudsman’s Office, i.e. this work of the Ombudsman for the elderly would be weighted as if towards the future and towards improvement, and then such individual judicial supervision would be more than the Ombudsman’s, or what kind of views? It is now an opportunity for the whole Chamber to tell us which direction this preparation should take.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u13	Mr President! The elderly and their relatives complain and complain about the treatment very rarely. When you read about these complaints here, they are just the stories you hear from people in that field. They're the contacts, they're the stories about the people around you: the information doesn't pass, the old man is released with his hip broken in his own home, no one knows he's there, he's been dumped — that's just these everyday stories. Hospice isn't working. There's no pain relief. There is no indication of whether or not the hospice decision has been taken and whether the relatives know. This is a shocking situation. Now is the time for action, not for speech. There's been a lot of talk about poor old people living in homes. It is time to do something and add to those places of 24-hour care. Those keys are in your hands. Who's got the key to the coffers? Add those care facilities and home care with clear nursing resources and measurements.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u14	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Juvo for his excellent speech. I remember last season in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, just towards the end of the season, when we heard about this crisis in care for the elderly and they told us very shocking everyday events about the situation in the field: for example, there may be care institutions for the elderly, where there will be no nurses at all at some time, no nurses at all, on the spot. When the last nurse's shift ends, it'll be a couple of hours before the next nurse gets there. In other words, this situation is indeed untenable and I am very pleased that it was possible to agree, first and foremost, on the establishment of an old-age ombudsman's post and, finally, on the subject of a more stringent carer's statute. In fact, when I was negotiating this social restructuring in the government negotiations, I can tell you that it was decided in the context of this social restructuring that the role of the various supervisory authorities will also be clarified in parliamentary terms, so that all parliamentary parties will have their own representatives in this work. In other words, let us look at how the monitoring tasks of the social services of Valvira and the regional government agencies can be carried out today and what should perhaps be done in order to ensure better control than is currently the case. It was also agreed to create such a separate state funding mechanism aimed at strengthening social welfare research and skills and will also be funded for social welfare integration research, which is one of the new tools to ensure that no one falls between social welfare and health care services, i.e. the position of people in this service network will be improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u15	Let me remind you that the time to reply is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u16	Mr President! Perhaps I will take a slightly different floor. Here I would like to thank the Parliamentary Ombudsman for the excellent work he has done, as well as his predecessor in his day. I give these greetings because I have a long career in the field of social welfare and health care, for 20 years as head of two major medical districts, and that is where these matters will be resolved. It was my custom that whenever this Parliamentary Ombudsman's report came in a paper version, I made copies of all the pages dealing with healthcare complaints and distributed them to the entire supervisor in the working community. There were important orientations on a number of essential issues. Even now, this human rights point deals with access to health services. In time, your predecessor solved, for example, the question of which is heavier, the amount allocated to the budget by the municipality or hospital district or the need for care, and on that basis the legislation was reformed and the legislation on healthcare guarantees was introduced in Finland, which is now hopefully being tightened up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u17	Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, then the Ombudsman can comment on the speeches made.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u18	Mr President! After all, the crisis in the care of the elderly is not new, but it is new that we now all agree that the elderly need to be put right. I am delighted if we can agree unanimously to the establishment of the post of Ombudsman for the elderly. I have made two written questions about this last season, and even a bill, and now, if this is progressing, it is a great thing. The Ombudsman has done an excellent job in monitoring care and care for elderly people, there is nothing to say, but there is not enough control resources, and now, if there is a dedicated post, it will make the situation much easier. Mr President! I have two questions for the Ombudsman. One is: in your opinion, how do you now meet the criteria of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in Finland, are we living in the spirit of this agreement at the moment? Another point that came to my mind when I listened to this debate, when I have not been able to read this report so well: how has the Ombudsman monitored the situation of home care at the moment, because there will be a lot against these inhumane situations?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u19	Mr President! I am very pleased that the rights of the elderly and the supervision of them have given rise to a lively debate here, and it was nice to hear that, for example, Mr Lindén, in his own working unit, has, in his time, contributed to the effectiveness of the Ombudsman's report by distributing it there. There were direct questions here, at least Mr Kiljunen and Mr Koskinen asked about the division of duties between the Ombudsman and a possible Ombudsman for the elderly: I do not think that there will be any problems with this division of duties. I have written my own speech at a time when it was not known that an Ombudsman for the elderly was coming, and these tasks relating to the monitoring of the rights of the elderly would be carried out within the framework of the Ombudsman’s institution — the Ombudsman, the Human Rights Centre and the Human Rights Delegation. I understand that this possible Ombudsman for the elderly would be very similar to what the Finnish Centre for Human Rights does, i.e. general information, education, training, initiatives, studies, follow-up, this type of task. I imagine and perhaps I would hope that the duties and powers of a potential Ombudsman for the elderly would be similar to those of a representative for children today, i.e. this is precisely the general task of promoting the rights of the elderly. Instead, I would like this delegate not to have the right to investigate individual cases, to investigate complaints and, in particular, to carry out inspections. If that were the case, then this action would overlap and I do not think it would be desirable. But if, as I said, those tasks and powers are similar to those of a child’s representative, that certainly will not be a problem. Of course, it does have the effect that the work of the Centre for Human Rights takes it into account if there is a special representative, just as it does today: when there is a child representative, then the Centre for Human Rights has taken into account in its own activities the fact that they do not have overlapping tasks and activities. Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen then asked how the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities would be met: Yes, my view is that when Finland ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in June 2016, there has been a great deal of improvement. But much remains to be done, and the rights of people with disabilities are, after all, somewhat similar to those of the elderly, that we must constantly strive for a better but hardly ever get into a situation where there are no problems. After all, the scope of the CRPD is very wide and anyone who is considered to be disabled from the perspective of the CRPD does not require any medical diagnosis. In other words, the scope is very wide, and this agreement is in force as a law, in principle all that is contained in this Convention for the Disabled is to be complied with. For example, a large number of elderly people are covered by this Convention, such as elderly people with memory problems, but there is no need for a diagnosis of Alzheimer's. The problem of home care control is already that the Ombudsman and other supervisory authorities cannot go there to people's homes. In a way, getting the information on how home care services work is challenging, and it is very different from controlling activities in a particular institution or housing unit to which one can go. It is a constant challenge, and we are also trying to develop different methods. In this context, the Ombudsman and The Human Rights Centre has commissioned a study, including interviews with family members on how these services have been implemented and acted in practice. — — — — Maybe this is it at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u20	Let's move on to the list of speakers. I will not give any further comments until after the interventions have been made, and the Ombudsman will have another opportunity to comment at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u21	Mr President! It has been very pleasant to hear the consensus we have on the need to improve the state of care for the elderly, and we have many good means to do so. Especially now, of course, the situation of home care is one that requires a lot of action and also ideas on how we can better organise home care supervision. Of course, one of the key points is that municipalities and other providers of services must have sufficient resources to provide adequate medical staff. Many of the problems are caused by excessive urgency. It is a particularly valuable report by the Ombudsman, because it reflects precisely how we in our society take care of the most vulnerable. According to this report, the number of mentally disabled persons in Finland is estimated to be about 40,000. Personally, I have received a lot from disabled people. I've learned from them about life and humanity. People with disabilities even participated in my election work on their own initiative and with their own gifts. Someone was handing out brochures, someone was pouring coffee at the house night, someone was telling their own experiences. People with disabilities brought joy and light, and they have now remembered, made messages, made phone calls and said hello to this Parliament. Their message, and also my own attention, is that, as a rule, people with disabilities are quite good in Finland and they are happy with their lives, but, as this report points out, there is still something to be improved. The report notes, for example, that the application practices for disability services in municipalities are inconsistent and that different guidelines may limit access to statutory services for people with disabilities. I therefore consider it very important that we continue to improve access to the necessary services, including personal assistance, for people with disabilities. With the new Government Programme, we have ample hope that the services of both elderly and disabled people will improve throughout our country. This Ombudsman's report states that judicial review is largely carried out through the investigation of complaints, but also through own initiative and on-the-spot visits, and explains how a total of 25 checks were carried out on the housing and institutional units and psychiatric hospitals of disabled persons last year. With regard to these checks on services for the disabled, I would be interested to know how many of these were carried out in the form of these unannounced or unexpected checks, and for subsequent reports I would like to express the wish that the proportion of these carried out in this way is shown as unforeseeable. In the case of disabled people and elderly people with memory disorders, for example, it is important that we, as a society, take care of the controls, because they are unable to take a stand themselves and many of them are unable and unable to play or send a message, but they are entirely dependent on us as far as care is concerned. I would also like to join in thanking the Ombudsman and all those who have contributed to this important report and everyone who cares for these weakest ones in our society, and I am very pleased that, according to the government programme, we will have an old-age Ombudsman in our country.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u22	Mr President! According to Article 25 of the UN CRPD, persons with disabilities are entitled to the best possible level of health without discrimination on grounds of disability. Once again, the Parliamentary Ombudsman's report points out that in Finland this does not happen, but that people with disabilities are even discriminated against in matters of life and death. The decision not to resuscitate is a medical decision taken by a doctor to refrain from resuscitation when the patient becomes inanimate. This usually applies to people who are very sick at the end of life. Unfortunately, in Finland, treatment limits and this DNR decision are made for people with mental disabilities, even children who do not have a fatal disease and who do not suffer. The decision not to revive is an active offer of passive euthanasia to people who are unable to defend themselves. As a result of a common illness, parents of a mentally disabled child treated in a hospital may be asked to limit treatment, i.e. to propose a resuscitation ban. Parents may even be made to sign a document when a mentally disabled child moves to a housing unit. For example, Valvira, intellectual medicine experts and disability organisations have frequently pointed out that this puts a disabled patient in an unequal position on the grounds of disability. The Ombudsman has already made a remark to HUS in 2009 that the hospital district violates the Constitution by following the advice that people with deep mental disabilities are generally excluded from intensive care.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u25	Mr President! What can you say after a speech like that? That was really stopping me. In this country, in practice, in some passive way, people are actually being killed and life is being fought for. Mr Parliamentary Ombudsman, you are the bearer of bad news — thank you for that. This book, the Parliamentary Ombudsman's report for 2018, was quite hard to read to such an inexperienced young boyclope, who does not yet have a great deal of experience in life, and in my own speech I would like to raise the issues of the people to whom my own generation owes everything, that is, the elderly. Here, the Ombudsman had paid considerable attention to various issues. There was talk here of the right of family members involved in the care of the elderly to be informed about the unclear billing of home care. There was talk of customer safety at night, hospice, outdoor activities, and so on. In my own speech, I would like to raise three different reports which have been given here. First of all, outdoor activities are not allowed to be left to the deceased and the The inspections found that in many units daily outdoor activities are either not carried out or that it is not possible to establish this ex post due to lack of documentation.’ Well, then,the right of the family members who are taking care of the elderly to be informed: ‘Your Ombudsman’s findings that relatives who are taking part in customer care have not been able to obtain information about the client’s situation. The disclosure of information to relatives depends on the authority’s discretion when the recipient of services is unable to participate in the provision of services due to illness, mental disability or any other similar reason. The Ombudsman considered that there was a lack of legislation in this regard as it could jeopardise the necessary care of vulnerable social care customers.” A final example of the report, the safety of customers at night, which in fact has been the subject of a fairly large social debate just before the elections: ‘On the basis of the findings of an audit carried out by the unit providing services for the day-to-day housing unit,your Ombudsman’s findings are not appropriate for the safety of residents. The Ombudsman had already drawn attention to this during an audit visit in 2007. The situation had worsened further as the number of customers in the unit increased and the night nurse was also responsible for the residents of the service industries. The nurses hoped that there might be two night nurses in the nursing home. The nurses did not know the elderly or their illnesses living in the service house, so night shifts were considered excessively heavy.” I must say that the decisions that Parliament has taken in the course of history have had quite a lot of consequences. There is not enough investment in the elderly. And it has to be said that the government which was responsible for dealing with the affairs of this country between 2011 and 2015 — there was a coalition, there were demars and others — and who cut 300 million out of the care for the elderly, unfortunately, has made a difference. That too must be said in this context. I very much hope that the Social Democrats will now very quickly correct these errors as a government party and that the nurseship we have been talking about will actually be resolved. A little concerned about the Government Programme discussion was heard when the implementation of its nursing function might be prolonged for a number of years to come. So that's the kind of worry you're having. I must say that I very much appreciate the work that the Ombudsman is doing. You have told us how you have dealt with these issues at the very limits of endurance. Together with Mr Sanna Antikainen, we launched a citizens' initiative to get an old-age councillor to Finland right there a few months before the elections, and we really hope that this will now come into force. There was a record of this in the Government Programme, but I still hope that this issue will also be resolved very soon, that it will be organised as soon as possible, so that you can have more resources from another perspective to this work for the elderly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u26	Mr President! Representative Purra set a real example — true — of the problems of caring for a disabled child in Finland today, and that was a halting speech. However, it is good that we are hearing this much today, including representatives of the government parties. Mr President! The Parliamentary Ombudsman plays an important role, not only through his official role, but also through the media. The role of the Ombudsman is to be a visible and accessible defender of justice for citizens, who tackle the wrongs that take place through professionalism and an uncompromising attitude. It is up to the Ombudsman to direct the authorities to do what is right and to promote good administration. The next item is a couple of very important issues for me and also for the Finns, which I hope the Ombudsman will address even more in the future. The situation of many elderly people in Finland is unfortunate. If there are no relatives to care for and control the interests of the person being cared for, then the responsibility of society for the weaker will be emphasised. The mismanagement of the elderly has been prominently visible as some private care giants burn one hand after another. Parliament allocated additional appropriations to the Ombudsman for increasing expenses to monitor the implementation of the rights of the elderly. This is a great thing, and I hope that the controls will be tightened up. More than that, neglect is prevented if the likelihood of being caught increases. Possible sanctions and loss of reputation are strong threats. The following is particularly relevant for older people: the transition of public services to the network is further accelerated and traditional channels of service are disappearing on the map. It is great that the use of technology is developing services, but we must not forget those people whose skills are not properly enough to digitise or those who do not have the necessary equipment and connections. We must ensure that there is adequate support and guidance for everyone. Equality in access to public services must not depend on IT skills. Furthermore, traditional places of business must not be reduced any longer so that services do not run away from an uncompleted distance. Care must be taken to ensure the accessibility of services in all administrative sectors. I hope that the Ombudsman will pay particular attention to the challenges posed by the change in the field of service provision. — It is certainly not easy for the Ombudsman either, with such a wide-ranging job description. Finally, I would like to highlight the importance of monitoring: For example, there are now two pre-trial cases in the case of child welfare facilities, which is two too many. Control of closed facilities is not easy. Prisons, police prisons and psychiatric hospitals are the hard core of the Ombudsman’s audit priorities. In addition, the resources of the Ombudsman's Office must also be allocated to the services of care for the elderly and children. This also includes social services. It would therefore be important to have sufficient resources for practical monitoring work in order to find and address these shortcomings more effectively. As the Ombudsman pointed out, only a fraction of the institutions have the possibility of carrying out controls. The number of injection visits should be significantly increased. It will not help if there are few surveys of the operation of the installations and the arrival is still announced in advance. Overall, more resources and factors are needed for monitoring. Preventive action to avoid the emergence of irregularities must play a more important role. It is up to the authorities to ensure that the rules are complied with. The situation of home care and people with disabilities is critical. Indeed, the Ombudsman is not always informed about what is happening in home care. Often, a home - care person does not even have relatives or close ones who take care of him. There are also still major shortcomings in Kela rides for disabled people and older people, and complaints have been received. As Mrs Juvonen mentioned, now is the time for action. Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen and Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto have been raising these shortcomings for years, and now that they are also there in the government parties, they will probably take this matter forward. There's going to be action. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u27	Mr President! Today we have a report from the Ombudsman, which is very informative to read, and I hope that everyone will be able to study it carefully. I would like to raise a few points about social and health care services. The shortcomings in the conditions and treatment of the elderly have been highlighted. We have several tens of thousands of people living in institutional care and in service housing and even more in home care, and their quality and good, valuable care should be an honour. But there is a lack of food, hygiene, diaper change, rehabilitation and outdoor activities. Weaknesses have also been observed in the frequency of medical visits, medical treatment and dental care. The report points out that the shortcomings are often due to insufficient staffing. This is certainly the case to a large extent, and I am sure that this is also linked to inadequate supervision. On the other hand, as the Ombudsman has pointed out here, the challenge of supervision is increased by the fact that home care, for example, cannot be used to control people's homes as much as is necessary to ensure the quality of good care. I also think that outsourcing and its shortcomings are an important issue for older people. It has to do with the number of staff, but I also think it has to do with the kind of culture that we have in care facilities, that people are being cared for indoors. In my mind, I often liken the situation and position of elderly people, who are in 24 - hour care and cannot move out of it or rely on others. Prisoners have the right to go out every day, but it's not for the elderly. I would therefore like to see some kind of obligation placed on this at the legal level, that the elderly should also have a statutory right to outdoor activities. Then we would have to pay attention to it. As far as home care is concerned, I would also like to raise the issue of increased digitalisation, which is a good thing. We can organise more services, and often we can organise them more frequently, but it also brings our own challenges. In the case of medical records, for example, relatives are easily excluded from its knowledge. The Assistant Ombudsman has stated that the main purpose of notebooks or similar forms is to act as a channel of communication between medical staff and relatives or close relatives. The entries in the notebook, e.g. in home care, describe the current life situation of the customer. In many places, however, these notebooks have been omitted when electronic communication has been introduced, and I have heard that in some places their use is even banned. Well, of course, they are notebooks that are there at the customer’s home and are not there in electronic systems, but communication between family and staff is of paramount importance for people who need the care of others. The adequacy of control resources must be ensured, and I agree with many others who have pointed out here that there should also be unforeseen visits, that it is possible to monitor the quality at other times than when it is planned. There is the following issue of care for the elderly as well as child protection, which I would like to highlight: limitation measures. As far as child protection is concerned, we experienced a lot of shortcomings over the last year when inhumane treatment was discovered, children's rights had not been taken into account and the power exercised by the staff in relation to children who are in a subordinate position had also been exercised. We must also remember that these children are very vulnerable and have experienced many hard times, so we must be particularly careful. It is an honour for us to take care of children in child welfare investments in a good and high-quality way, just like our old people. Fortunately, last season, the Social Welfare Act was clarified in relation to self-restriction measures for children, but self-regulation as a whole should be clarified. It is now inadequate, as has been pointed out in this Ombudsman's report. We have situations in emergency services, round-the-clock care, and also in the case of disabled people, that we need clear legislation on when human sovereignty can be restricted, when it is necessary for it to be managed and when it is justified. I hope that the reform of self-regulation will now be taken care of during the forthcoming government term, even though it is currently lacking in the government programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u28	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Ombudsman! When I was in this Parliament myself in 2011, I said exactly what Mr Tynkkynen said: this book is extremely good and valuable, and it is worth taking advantage of it to get to know how things are in Finland. You might want to read it from cover to cover. Here are also some good ideas about what you can do and influence here in Parliament. I thank you for this report, and I understand and feel your pain. You said you've been working at the limit, and I believe that. I believe that the Attorney General's office also feels the same way. I have made a complaint there last December regarding the Military Accidents and Service Diseases Act, and it is still under discussion — I have asked a couple of questions and it has now been promised that in a couple of weeks I will have an answer. Surely these complaints, complaints and inspections will take time and will take time. Good things have come up here. There's been talk of an old-age councilman. The Finns have also made a bill on this, and it is a good thing if it goes ahead, but the delegate must act, that is, what is the job description, and must be effective in that regard. This book highlights hospice treatment. I myself have taken a hospice law initiative and I would like to talk a little about it. Thank you, Mrs Purra, for the very touching speech. As a mother, it must be said that it would lose its mind if such a situation were with one’s own child in the hospital. This is an interesting and shocking situation, how disabled children in Finland may be treated and how worthless their lives are in a way interpreted. A lot of you may remember Eino-boy's story. This little three-year-old had a brain bleed that destroyed his brain. Last season, Eino's father visited Parliament to tell his story and was also an initiator of this euthanasia initiative in the background of the debate. So here it is, the other way around. There was a sick little boy who suffered very much. His parents suffered around him. My father was a doctor, and they wished a little boy had gotten out. But there wasn't a chance like this. The Eino boy suffered for weeks, and eventually he dried up, and that was his end. This brings us to the question of why we do not have any guidelines for children's hospice care in Finland. HUS may have, and perhaps there are some hospital-level hospice guidelines for children, but otherwise they are completely lacking in the paediatric population. In other words, contrary to the situation of such a disabled child, there was no possibility that he might have died in such a very ill case when a little boy was so ill. This is an inconceivable contradiction, and when you think about it, you will lose your mind. Mr President! This is what I would like to ask you: what do you think when the hospice comes up here — although it has not been much complained about, but it seems so strange when those messages come to you? I have a couple of cases right now that I'm trying to help and be supportive when the hospice has gone completely wrong, which means it hasn't happened. As a nurse, I know that basic care is not enough at all, and we have many small nursing homes and operators who do not have to have that medical capacity. There's no drugs there. There's those strong painkillers. It is not enough to simply treat or treat the mouth in hospice; pain relief is also needed. This is the problem that I myself, as a nurse on the night shift, have seen, which means that even the nurse is at the point of being completely clueless when she does not know what to do when the nursing home has a homely environment that lacks such care facilities. Mr President! Indeed, many older people do not complain about their own care or treatment, nor do relatives. Nutrition, hygiene, diapers, outdoors, medical treatment and dental care have emerged here, so there are a lot of different themes, but then safety at night. I've been working nights for 14 years and I've been doing night jobs every now and then — yesterday I actually got a call to get on the night shift, but then I didn't leave, so that's when you don't find that nurse — and this story about what's here is just like my old life. So when you have those department customers and then the service house customers and there's only one night nurse, where do you get it? That's more caring hands. These restrictive measures have been raised here. We would not need restrictive measures, we would not need hygiene jumpsuits, and under no circumstances should we lock the doors of the elderly, not at night, not at daytime if there were enough caring hands. If the nurse is present, then there is no need for restrictive measures, and this is the problem we need to solve. I look forward to the nurseship being recorded in the law, that it really is convincing and impressive, and it brings them helping hands and it also brings those walkers. This report is an extensive book, and not all of it has been read, but I am still raising the question of the flow of information and how we could improve the flow of information so that it is on call or whether it is a hospital, so that when that customer goes home from there, the message would go to the family or home that a person is coming because there are so many of them left behind. With all the electrical equipment we have, why are they not working? Why does the message not get through, not into rehabilitation or necessarily home care, so that people will then know that there is an elderly person at home who needs to be taken care of? But this was perhaps my main question: what do you think about introducing hospice guidelines also for children, updating their instructions and what should be done about it?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u29	Mr President! There is a book here that I think this will be very useful, at least for such a new Member of Parliament, and I am sure that we should all look into this carefully. That is why I would like to thank the Ombudsman very much for this report. I am now approaching this issue through my own experience, which means that it is a question of caring for the elderly. In the last few days, we have been talking a lot in this Chamber, perhaps even on the subject, about the way in which nurses are measured. We know, and at the same time we hope that, as soon as possible, the 0.7-manufacturing target set by the government will be achieved. It is a step in the right direction, but when it comes to the issue of the elderly, the builders of our country and the honorable citizens, it is not just a question of numbers; it is also a matter of good care for each of them. To them we must give precious old age and the last years of life. I am sure we all agree on this. In my second assignment, as a priest on weekends, I constantly face the relatives of the elderly. In most cases, when talking about the care of the final stages of life and the elderly, I have learned of major shortcomings in the care institutions, heartbreaking stories. And this problem is not only a problem for private institutions; it is also a problem for the public. In fact, studies show that the problem is even greater on the public side. From the Ombudsman's report for 2018, we read that this problem is well-known — although it seems that society has only woken up properly since the press raised the problem and its magnitude last autumn, and I believe that for us who are involved in political decision-making, this problem came a little from behind the tree. The Ombudsman therefore supervises Valvira, the Regional State Administrative Agency and the Minister for Social Affairs and Health with regard to services for the elderly, but the Ombudsman also supervises the municipalities, i.e. the payers, who are ultimately responsible in the monitoring chain for monitoring the operators who provide services for the elderly. Mr President! Today we know that the control chain in our country has failed badly. Social actors do not have sufficient resources, perhaps even skills, at least not at municipal level. Again, much talk of self-monitoring in communities often does not work — which is an unfortunate fact in this busy world, but not an acceptable fact. Now is the last time to increase controls and measures, and it is good to hear today in this Chamber that the Ombudsman for the Elderly is also coming to our country. In this way we will get rid of one of the disgraces of our nation, this matter in order. Resources and controls must be increased at all levels. The problem is not acute only in institutional care. There is also a major problem with home care, as has already been said in several speeches. But our concern is also with the family carers and their ability to cope. We don't have enough respect for family carers. On several occasions I hear the wife’s words that, since we promised to love and care for each other throughout our lives, we also went to the end together. These words contain a greater and deeper message than life. These people are real heroes and pillars of society, almost without compensation. Mr President! It is an extremely good thing that in his report the Ombudsman has taken a strong stand on this important problem which affects all of us. The care of the elderly, taking care of them, is one of the ten key problems of basic and human rights in Finland. The Ombudsman's proposal rightly sets out the desire to establish measures to restrict the right to self-determination in the care of the elderly. Unfortunately, the required legal basis is not yet available, it is still lacking. I therefore hope that the present government will take firm action and resolve both this control problem and the fact that our elderly people will receive appropriate care.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u30	Mr President! I would also like to thank the Honourable Parliamentary Ombudsman and the staff of the Office. Parliament's Ombudsman's report for 2018 is 370 pages long. There is much justification for the implementation of fundamental and human rights in different areas, such as police activities, social welfare and child protection. However, it bothers me that the entire 370 page work contains the word “indoor air ” only four times, although the problem is acute. In three of these,the Then, on page122,the following statement is made:‘Schools continue The indoor air problem is significant and wide-ranging. Anyone who has been involved with people who are sick from the indoor air knows that many of these people are telling of situations that flagrantly violate the sense of justice. It is not just about schools, it is also about hospitals, police departments and so on. The report also referred, as I read earlier, to major health problems and to the risk of equal access to education. I therefore propose that the significant health problems mentioned in the report and the equal right of pupils to education be dealt with in greater detail and that the Parliamentary Ombudsman evaluates the state of public administration and the management of public tasks and, in particular, the implementation of fundamental and human rights in Finland in this matter. I would also ask the Parliamentary Ombudsman to comment on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u31	Mr President! I thank the Ombudsman for his comprehensive, valuable and very important report. It's sad that there are mostly Finns in this room. [on behalf of the Socialist Group: There are others!] However, I would like to raise a practical point directly related to this report. The Ombudsman also supervises all authorities in charge of supervision, and it is clear that licensing and control organisations also need to develop and improve their activities. However, it appears that at the last minute there was no mention of a centralised national licensing and control agency. There has been a debate on this for a long time and I regret to say that it has not been there. However, this would ensure a high and uniform level of control and licensing throughout the country. This Creative Agency has also been mentioned in this report, and I now appeal to the government parties and Prime Minister Rinde to re-examine this agency, which has been prepared with experts. This would support our current activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u32	Mr President! Thank you to the Ombudsman for that comprehensive package — which I have had no time to look at but superficially with myself. Yesterday, I criticised the government quite strongly for not having enough money to carry out what was there, but yesterday, in my brief speech too, I was able to take a superficial note of the fact that the disabled, the elderly and the children are the ones to whom money must always be found, every single time. The Ombudsman's work in this country is good in itself, but as previously heard, it is at the limits of sustainability, and I am not surprised because I know that there is so much more to investigate than there is to be investigated. I would like to see more money available for monitoring and the Ombudsman's activities, for example, for monitoring care for the elderly and, indeed, for many other controls. It would have been desirable, of course, that there should have been representatives of the government parties listening, but you handfuls of people who are here now give the message that the money invested in this kind of activity is actually an infinite amount of money in the overall budget and yet it is the thing that actually gets quite a lot of that money back. For example, the majority of the mismanagement of elderly people before the last elections would have been completely excluded from the problem if supervision were at the level at which the supervision should be. In reality, when there is no control, there will also be little compliance with the law or regulations. As was said earlier, about half of them are, so to speak, carried out as blows to places there, so that they are not mentioned in advance. In practice, I believe that the figure should be between 80% and 90%, but of course it would require more resources for the Ombudsman and more people there. If it is said that we are about to raise to 0.7 and that, as I recall, requires 4,000 new nurses to do the job, then we are talking about practically a few people in this situation compared to it. Indeed, this government must now put it in order, because it is quite clear that those hand pairs will be needed to correct these problems in the future. Finally, I would like to thank the Ombudsman very much for a good, comprehensive package.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u33	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Parliamentary Ombudsman for the work you have done for the legal protection of Finns. The Ombudsman is the last hope for many Finns who have felt their rights have been violated. The Ombudsman's adequate resources must be safeguarded. As one of the key problems of basic and human rights in Finland, you highlight shortcomings in the learning environments of basic education. You note that there are persistent indoor air problems in schools that can cause significant health damage and jeopardise the right of pupils to equal education. So thank you for these comments. Unfortunately, the problem of fundamental rights related to indoor air problems arises little in the public debate and the rights of indoor students have not improved. Mr President! There are several hundred thousand Finns suffering from indoor air symptoms every day. There are huge numbers of children and young people in Finland who are experiencing indoor air symptoms. The summer holidays of the schools gave many children, young people and teachers a break from the bad indoor air. Indoor air symptoms endanger the right of pupils to basic education. It's hard to learn when it's hard to breathe. The Basic Education Act provides for the student’s right to a safe and healthy learning environment. Why is this right not possible in Finland? As a municipal decision-maker in Sipoo, I have found that when indoor air symptoms begin, the rights of students are particularly weak. Fortunately, teachers usually have effective occupational health care and often have the opportunity to change workplaces if necessary. The students and the parents of the students are often left alone with the symptoms. The indoor air problems are nasty. The research methods of buildings are inadequate. The causes and mechanisms of the symptoms are all the less known. It is not just a matter of mould problems, but of countless air quality problems, such as volatile organic pollutants, VOCs, wool dust and other air pollutants, and inadequate ventilation. In any case, human symptoms are real. The indoor air solutions of the authorities do not reflect this reality. The symptoms are understated. There are no appropriate treatment paths. For example, the fact that a doctor reports that mold disease is caused by nervous system hypersensitivity as such does not help a child who suffers from symptoms. In the case of this type of hypersensitivity, it must also be able to be treated. The symptoms are real. It is also a major expense for Finnish society. According to the Parliamentary Audit Committee, the annual cost of health effects related solely to moisture damage amounts to between EUR 23 and 953 million. In addition to health, national property is at stake. The municipalities are estimated to have a debt of around EUR 4 billion to cover due to indoor air problems. Mr President! The indoor air problems are caused by problems in both the quality of construction and the maintenance of buildings. The previous government launched the Healthy Spaces Programme 2028, which aims to restore public buildings and improve the treatment and rehabilitation of indoor air-stricken people. During the ten-year programming period, an approach to real estate management should be established in which the condition of buildings, their suitability for their purpose and user experience will be regularly reviewed and evaluated. New practices will hopefully also help improve the indoor air in schools and thus improve the position of pupils. The continuation of the programme is included in the new Government Programme. There is a need for decisive action from the new government to safeguard the status and fundamental rights of those suffering from indoor air conditions, especially children and young people. Mr Ombudsman, you have stated in the report that many of the ten key problems of fundamental rights and human rights in Finland could be eliminated by allocating sufficient resources and developing legislation. I would like to ask you: what legislative changes do you see as necessary in order to safeguard the right of children and young people with indoor air problems to basic education in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u34	Mr President! Thank you for the report of the Parliamentary Ombudsman. The thing that just came up here is that information doesn't always pass. And that flow of information affects the care of the elderly, it affects a wide range of things. In particular, the flow of medication data is very important. I've been doing pharmacy work for a quarter of a century, and that's the same problem all along, it hasn't changed anything. So the information doesn't pass. When a doctor writes medicines, the pharmacy sees electronic recipes that what goes on with the customer, but the information does not move forward. The actual medication card, i.e. the information from which you can see what the customer actually uses, is not just passing. So after all, the customer is responsible for the medication information that is up-to-date medication. If you think about it when a pharmacy has to call a doctor, ask a question and make sure, then the flow of information is also cramped. For example, we should not tell the patient what the other doctor has written even if it is useful for the patient’s treatment. It's absurdly contradictory in my opinion. I think we should make sure we get that information. It is quite amazing that now there are Kela, tax offices and others where information is really good, but these information systems are so absurd — perhaps hundreds of different — that that information just doesn’t pass, and it’s a really dangerous thing. It's a dangerous thing in the way that if a patient can't handle his own business... It can't be the patient's responsibility right now. There are occupational health care, there may be different departments within the same hospital, there are health centres, there are wards, and there is no information going on between them. Medication data are not necessarily transferred, and it is only the patient’s own responsibility, and I find it incredibly worrying. I would like to see that now, at last, attention being paid to it and the government parties taking this message very seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u35	Mr President! I would like to express my greetings to the Ombudsman on today's national situation without any actual prepared speech, although I am sure you will be aware of that. If we look at today’s state of affairs throughout the country in various police facilities, and especially in view of the Tampere Police Department, which I know very well, for example, is there any point in senate properties doing many millions of renovations to these old buildings? After the renovation, even though we have closed the prison twice already, and every time we have returned to it, the occurrence reports for the guards will continue to return, but also for customers today due to indoor air problems. I would ask you to pay attention to this and, if possible, to carry out unannounced inspections of these prison facilities, because they are in a very bad situation. Long sick leave for the guards, and, of course, for those who can still work, even harder shifts. This is what I'm asking you to pay attention to. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u36	Mr President! I wanted to make a comment on what Mr Laakso said, and that is why I asked for this speech. — The Valley referred to the monitoring as to why there are weak points. It's because of this self-monitoring. We have moved to self-monitoring with the Act on the Elderly, and I would like to ask the Ombudsman about this: What do you think of the effectiveness of self-monitoring, and is that heavy? So in what way will that self-monitoring come about after all? Once the checks have been carried out, you will certainly have seen whether the self-monitoring plans are on the table and whether the relatives of the elderly will also see those self-monitoring plans, so that they will be able to assess the situation of the care unit. Then this audit: I myself have argued last season that we would need an independent audit unit in Finland that would take care of its audit, which would at least be complete, so that it would be uniform and similar across Finland. What do you see in audit supervision at the moment? To that last speech I made: In fact, I crystallize my idea that when a disabled child is wanted to die, why should a child as sick as the son of Eino not be allowed to die? That was the phrase I wanted to say in that jar, but I did not say it. In fact, Eino’s son’s father asked his child for euthanasia — the name he used — but sufficient pain relief and good treatment... Of course, the son’s relief from his suffering was certainly the father’s and mother’s desire. This was my idea that I was wondering about. One wants to die, the other doesn't want to die.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u37	Mr President! Good Parliamentary Ombudsman! This report is very broad and there are many good examples here. This is probably such a good opus, which — I believe with my own experience when I have been involved in municipal politics — should be sent to all the municipal councillors in Finland when they rise up on their own mission, because even in the work of the municipal councillor there may come up with such things that they have to attend to, and this gives good guidance to it. This also tells us of the shortcomings in child protection and, among other things, of the requests for information that may be made by the councilman to the municipality, and of which one often finds that such an answer is not always available, and there are good examples here, among other things. We are talking here about the control of the rights of the child — and, of course, there are the issues of the elderly, but I am thinking here of taking a personal look at this control of the rights of the child. Regrettably little I have come to know about this, but I have been in such a position as my own in my own work and trust, that I have had to deal with some of these child protection cases and have then been there to support the social workers. These are such difficult things, and it certainly very often has a different view from that of a social worker or that child welfare adverter. It is unfortunate to note that there are times when there will be no detention, even if it should be, and sometimes there will be detention, even if it may not be. So that these are such difficult things, they always get involved with the parents and the social workers, and sometimes there comes such an image to yourself as a close follower that the social worker may, in my opinion, exercise his own authority... perhaps “inconsiderately ” is a false word, but nevertheless a false one. I have been involved in such discussions, and in some cases they have been corrected, and someone has been corrected through the administrative court. I just received mail, e-mailed me, and I have not seen such a thing before, but sometimes it may be that the foster family also feels mistreated, that is, the family that has received children. Here I am trying very briefly to tell you what problems they have experienced. They have had siblings in their way to live with them, and then there have been disagreements or differences of opinion with the social worker and the children have been taken out of there, and there has been an appeal to the Regional State Administrative Agency. And the slowness of the proceedings of the Regional State Administrative Agency is what this family is now talking about. Then they see that the power of a social worker is one problem when, as family carers, they have no rights or opportunities to defend themselves against the view of a social worker. Both the child and the family nurse should have a responsible social worker, and then when it is the same social worker, the family nurse will be left alone when the problem arises. This calls for some legal assistance for family carers when problems arise. These are unfortunate cases, and these are particularly regrettable cases always for their children. I’ve been following a family from which children have been taken into care by sight, and in my view it seems to be a pretty drastic procedure. The situation here is that the mother is from a foreign culture and the mother’s methods of rearing are too harsh, according to the Finnish social worker. This is something that will probably become more common in the future, that when people come from different cultures, our own culture will not be adaptable to their culture, and it seems that there will only be more of these custodys. Thank you for this opus, and I really hope that this opus will go to all the municipal and city councillors when they start their own mission. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u38	Mr President! I would also like to thank the Ombudsman for his good work and this report. Unfortunately, I myself have not been able to get to know this, and I am sure I will also get to know it better. As has been shown in many of the speeches here, this is certainly a very good tool during this period. I would also like to thank the honourable Members present for perhaps having been the most constructive debate this season. Very good things have come up, and I have listened to them here with an accurate ear. I also agree that action needs to be taken instead of words, and the care of the elderly in particular is an area in which action needs to be taken to achieve improvement. I can see that the government programme really does give us a good chance of doing this and that it can also improve the care of the elderly in the future. With regard to the nurseship, which has been raised here with us, it is absolutely essential that it should now be recorded in the law, because unfortunately it has been found that the recommendations are simply not enough. I myself have been sitting for 14 years as Tehy's delegate, and I must say that this is the case that Tehy, as an organisation then a few years ago, was still a little critical of the fact that such a clinical chapter merely provides assurances that care will improve, but now it is absolutely true that without a legal dimension, there will just be no improvement. However, it must be borne in mind that the quality of care and care in particular must continue to be very important criteria at the time when resources are being considered in care units. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u39	Mr President! I share the view of my group colleague Kim Berg that this has been a very constructive debate, and I would like to thank you for the many contributions I have heard here. There has been a mention here of my former working community — of course I am no longer working there, but I will be attending a meeting tomorrow to meet the leaders of the HUS clinics, and I am sure I will accompany you here with some greetings. However, I really wanted to say here that between 95 and 2000 I was the supervisory authority itself. I was a county doctor in Turku and Pori. It is up to the doctor to supervise health care in his area. At that time there were 98 municipalities — 98 municipalities in the Provinces of Turku and Pori in those years — and at some point I felt that the shoulders of one and two authorities were quite a small group to control this vast area and the thousands of different units and jobs there. But I concluded at the time that Finland made a big mistake in 92 when we went in an extreme direction in the organisation of social and health services. I had to deal with the unimaginable actions of the municipalities. For example, I can mention one which is much lower than the dramatic examples reported here: for example, one municipality denied a woman who had lost her breast in a traffic accident through a breast prosthetic, stating that it is only given if there has been a breast loss due to cancer surgery. So the municipalities made such original policies. Since then, more than 20 years ago, I have been very convinced that the decentralisation of social and health services into 300 independent municipalities, some of which were very small and incompetent, is not always about resources, but also very much about knowledge. That is what I meant when I referred to the fact that Parliament’s Ombudsman’s report is otherwise sent to all the municipalities — it comes to all the medical districts, to all the agencies and to the municipalities — and there it is the job of good managers to pass it on to the decision-makers, or to the managers and employees, for example, and to bring these important issues. In my own opinion, I would say to Mrs Rantee that I disagree with the creation of Creative. When I gave an opinion on it during the last parliamentary term, I said that, according to my assessment, it would weaken social and health care control, because when a large, gigantic general monitoring organisation is set up, there is no guarantee that there will also be resources available for social and health care control which should exist. But this is, of course, an issue of assessment and opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u40	Mr President! The fact that Mr Vestman and Mr Niemi raised this topical issue of indoor air, which really also concerns schools, prisons, hospitals and other buildings throughout the country, is of great value, as it has been corrected by one homehouse and still paying for it. This subject was kept silent in our society for too long, but we are now happily talking about it, and in that reading room of MPs we are now quoting Finland's first home house novel Home sweet home, which is also available in other libraries. As a writer of that novel and also as an expert on this subject through its own airways, I share the hope that the shortcomings caused by indoor air problems, such as children's rights to school, may be taken more into account in the report in the future. It is great that we now have people across party boundaries who understand the extent of the indoor air problem affecting our country and its effects on people in particular. There are many concrete decisions in the new Government Programme to address the indoor air problem, and I look forward to working together to implement them and also to finding other solutions in cooperation with all parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u41	Mr President! It is easy to join Mr Lindén and Mr Berg in their comments. I, too, have longed for this type of debate in the Chamber to address the social problems and issues that we have and to seek a common direction. Thank you, indeed, to the Ombudsman for the report. It is an extremely good document for the new representatives. There is a lot of good in the Government Programme, as the previous representative said. There will be a follow-up to this Healthy Facilities action programme. It is a good thing, and the Government programme stresses in particular the importance of raising its focus. I also think that changes in legislation should be made on the construction and renovation side, especially in terms of raising the level of knowledge. It's also written on that government program. I'm glad they're being addressed. This is a truly humane problem and, in the case of local government finances, a huge one at the moment. Many municipalities are currently in considerable financial difficulties with these indoor air problems. Investment levels have had to be raised by about half in some cities, and at the same time old properties have to drive down, which then has quite big meanings in the municipal economy. Of course, the difficulty of this problem and the reactions of families and children, when it comes to it, do put the decision-maker in a rather difficult position many times. The severity and origin of these reactions are extremely difficult to analyse at the moment. Many school and kindergarten buildings have been studied and nothing can be found there, and the problems continue, and the decision-makers against the wall will then have to make decisions on what to do. It is good that the government programme has addressed this issue. It requires a lot of changes in the legislation. It also requires new thinking and measures in terms of the use of premises, perhaps also returning to the old-fashioned management of buildings, at least in large buildings.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u42	Mr President! First of all, we must thank the Parliamentary Ombudsman for a comprehensive and comprehensive report for 2018. It would probably be a very good idea for everyone to get to know this, as many people in this Chamber have already said, and, as Mr Mäenpää well understood, this would certainly be a very welcome epic for councillors all over Finland. I have criticised the government's programme on two days, but today I am not criticising but rather hoping. Mr Purra's speech, which I hope the whole of Finland will hear, was to be stopped. After that, I began to think carefully about the legal protection of disabled people and the legal protection of the elderly. Since we have to come up with solutions and suggestions for improvement in this Chamber and the government's task is then to implement, lay down regulations and laws to implement them, I would like to start with the legal protection of people with disabilities, the legal protection of the elderly and, of course, why not all of us have a lot to do with legal protection. In this initial debate, this taxi pattern, which has shown shortcomings since the reform of the taxi law, was highlighted in the case of disabled people. I would take it because, although it seems like a small matter now, especially since we have heard about human affairs in this Chamber, we need to be able to make improvements to everyday life. I very much hope that the government will take over the taxi law in so far as it needs to be improved, in order to improve legal security for people with disabilities and to increase the sense of safety in everyday life and to ensure that rides arrive. Same with the old people. As far as the elderly are concerned, shocking things have happened during the previous government, and we have all had to read the news. I very much hope that the new government will take up this level of care for the elderly, and I believe and trust that this will happen. After all, the reform of the Taxi Act did reduce the level of service, lower availability in rural areas. The language barrier is one where you run into it yourself, that there may be drivers who speak languages that I do not understand a word of myself, even though I speak a few languages very helpfully. And the sense of security has been weakened by this new cab law. Surprisingly, I am not criticising the government in this speech, but I really hope and wish that these things can be put right. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u43	Mr President! Here the Social Democrats Lindén, Berg and Eskelinen called for this debate to continue. We, as Finns, are ready to have that factual discussion. We have a majority here in this Chamber when we talk about the things of the less fortunate in this society. There's no one here today who's always squirming about your party, like screamer. Last night, almost until midnight, he was listening to us bludgeon and talk about giving value to ourselves but also to each other. We had spoken properly about immigration policy and what kind of mild phenomena it brings with it. Yes, we are focusing on it, but we sometimes have to defend ourselves against it when the most absurd arguments are thrown out of it, that we are the extreme right and that and this and that, when you bring those stamps, when there are no arguments to comment on. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u44	Mr President! The new taxi law does not work perfectly, we all know that, and at this point there is no point in blaming why it came and who was behind it, but we have to look ahead. Kela rides, especially for disabled people, do not work, and many taxi entrepreneurs are also sorry that it does not work. Just as Mr Peltokangas said, we must pay attention to this, and if any law does not work, it is not cut in stone that we cannot make changes to it. Now that the new government is working, I would like and I'm sure that the Finns of Finland all wish that attention be paid to problem areas and that the matter should be corrected.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u45	Now again, Parliament's Ombudsman Petri Jääskeläinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u46	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! First of all, I would like to thank you for this lively and good-spirited debate that has emerged as a result of this report. I will try to answer the questions that the Ombudsman had been asked. I am now going to have to go in the order in which they have come, and now, in this situation, I cannot systemize them in that way. This is where Mr Aittakumpu asked about the checks to be carried out on the housing units of people with disabilities, how many of these are unnotified. There is a list of all the inspections carried out during the reporting year in annex 6 to the report, indicating which ones have not been notified in advance. There is such a small asterisk, which shows that they are unforeseeable. Well, quite quickly, more than half of these checks on the housing units of disabled persons have been unforeseeable, these unannounced checks. Mr Purra reported on the problems related to the health care of disabled people, children with disabilities. They are precisely those whom the Ombudsman seeks to influence. The Ombudsman aims to promote the right of persons with disabilities to equality and equal access to healthcare services. We are working in various ways to develop, among other things, these inspection methods in order to tackle all these problems. Of course, some of them come through complaints, but some of them come mainly through inspections, and we are always trying to develop these audit methods. After all, the Ombudsman now has access to external experts in this role of the national supervisory body, and we have a dozen non-health experts available for these missions, mainly doctors. For example, we have a specialist and a geriatric specialist in the treatment of the elderly. The expertise of these people can be used. The rapporteurs themselves are mainly lawyers, i.e. the possibility of using external experts with other types of expertise, have, of course, brought depth to these Ombudsman missions. We also have experienced experts, i.e. people who have themselves been at school in the past, can, of course, raise potential shortcomings in a different way. There has been good experience of all of these. And just now, for example, we had internal training in hearing children with mental disabilities. This type of instrument aims to develop our capacity for these missions. There was talk of hospice. The Ombudsman has received few complaints about hospice care. But now I don't have the most recent information. The division of labour between the Ombudsman and assistant ombudsmen about a year ago was changed so that health care is no longer part of my sector, which means that I do not know the most recent situation, but while health care was in my sector, there were not very many complaints about hospice care. Then there has been a debate here about limiting self-determination. From the point of view of the guardian of the law, it is very problematic that we lack this law on self-determination, this so-called IMO package. With regard to somatic health care and the elderly, there is no legislation on how to restrict self-determination. However, when these restrictive measures have to be used in practice, it is indeed a real problem from the point of view of the law enforcement officer to assess them when the required legal basis is completely lacking. Ultimately, these will have to be assessed in the light of the provisions of the Criminal Code on emergency protection and forced state, and, of course, these provisions have been considered to be a completely different kind of situation than a restriction on the right to self-determination in care establishments. Then there were many speeches about indoor air problems. We have some complaints about them, and some of them have also been raised on their own initiative in connection with inspections. Of course, quite a few plants are in old buildings or otherwise in bad condition. All in all, of course, the indoor air problem is a problem of a kind which is difficult to deal with by the Ombudsman's measures, and it obviously requires a variety of measures on the legislative side and also on the resources side, but I may not be able to tell you more in this context what all and what specific measures are needed for this. Then there was self-monitoring, asking whether it was heavy and whether self-monitoring was enough. There is a need for self-monitoring and, of course, one of the fundamental reasons for this is that when there is not enough resources for external control, then efforts are made to improve self-monitoring and these self-monitoring plans are required. It is quite clear to me that self-monitoring must be possible, but it is equally clear that this alone is not enough, but also needs external control. Mr President! Perhaps here, according to my own notes, were the direct questions I am trying to answer. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u47	Thank you, Mr Jääskeläinen. — — — — Two more requests to speak on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u48	Mr President! That reform of the taxi legislation, when it also relates to this subject, I think, quite a bit: After all, the reform of taxi legislation aimed at three things: improved services, lower prices and better availability. In practice, nothing has come out of its spirit — except, of course, here in the capital region and in the urban areas, where there have been more taxis. I am particularly concerned about the situation in rural taxis. When Kela's bidding came, in practice it meant running out of bread with quite a few rural taxis and putting a note on the hatch for the entrepreneur. The duty to be on call was lost in rural taxis. In practice, it means that Grandma Ilomantsin can only get out of her cabin at night by ambulance, and in practice, the only life-hole that should be taken by the customer to the doctor and, for example, used in the same shop is currently impossible to use. I think it is important now to find out what this competition by Kela actually cost society. I have to tell you one thing from the election fields: an old lady from Kite had gone to Turku for cancer treatment, 815 euros cost her a ride there, but a crystalline taxi could not wait for that two-hour treatment, but drove back empty to Kitte, and then a taxi from Turku to Kitte, 830 euros, and drove back empty to Turku. This means that taxis drive empty across the countryside and around Finland. I think that the Government Programme has well set out the objectives that should be taken into account in the evaluation of this legislation, but at the same time it should also assess the costs that this has cost society.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u49	Mr President! I listened here in some way, with great gratitude and satisfaction, to this debate and to what is coming from the right side of the hall. We clearly have very similar values and objectives in these subjects and in what has been discussed here today — and that is how it should be that all of us who are here are on the side of people, children, the elderly, the disabled and the older, above all anything else. Mr Purra's speech touched me deeply, and I would like to mention that there is more of us who are older than we are here. I also have a disabled child, which is the reason I have ended up here. In a way, I wish that the situation in Finland had not been such that a parent had to take such a path that he would end up here, in this hall, to make things better. Clearly, we have a common will now, and when I listen to this debate here, I have no doubt that we, together, will get better at these things than what has now arisen here. Thank you for those excellent speeches today.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u50	Mr President! A few more comments on that taxi reform: It appears that the Assistant Ombudsman has taken a more detailed view of a couple of cases over the past year, and then it is pointed out that now, at the beginning of this year, Kela should be more closely addressed and corrected. Surely, in the field of elections, we have all received rather harsh examples of how unfortunate it has been, and that is the most obvious contradiction on the side of the Disability Services Act. The way in which taxis are ordered in a large area and the way in which taxis are ordered for use is, in fact, directly contrary to the idea of the Disability Services Act to get a ride if necessary. This would, in my view, encourage the Ombudsman to intervene more broadly so that Kela and the Government are brought to the attention of this clear contradiction and speed up the measures which, of course, the Government Programme obliges the Government to take. But it is precisely this contradiction between the taxi system in Kela and the Disability Services Act that is so extensive that it affects so many difficult groups of people that even in a way that is different from normal, we should probably react to it that a correction can be carried out quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u51	There are no longer speakers on the list of speakers on this subject. Does the Ombudsman still want to answer these questions?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u52	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on SiVM 1/2019 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u53	Chairman! This proposal proposes to amend the Student Support Act. It is proposed to specify the provisions on studies eligible for study aid in line with the current application practice. It is proposed to remove the requirement that the reason for the slowing down of studies should be temporary. The aim is not to interrupt student's student's student financial aid when the progress of studies is slowed down for an acceptable reason, such as illness, difficult life situation or, for example, dyslexia, visual or hearing impairment. The committee believes that clarification of the provision on the conditions for the continuation of study aid during the student's exceptional life situation will improve equal opportunities for students in terms of income. According to the explanatory statement of the Board of Directors, the delay in studies and the reason for them must continue to have a temporal connection, so that, for example, the difficult life situation during the first year of study is not an acceptable reason for the delay in studies during the third year of study. The committee considers this argument to be justified, but points out that sometimes the time span of the relationship may be long — for example, a major change in the life situation or traumatic experience may only weaken the ability to study after a long period of time — and it therefore stresses that the conditions for receiving student support should be considered individually, taking into account the actual situation of the student. At the same time, however, the Committee considers it important to achieve national coherence in the solution. The committee also welcomes the proposal to amend the legislation so that, in education other than under public supervision, access to study aid is no longer conditional on the training being organised by the organiser for at least one year. The committee will also draw attention to the possible need for change in the study aid legislation in connection with the examination of this law, in order to take into account the study that has changed since the reform of vocational education and training. The Committee stresses that changes in the reform of vocational education and training must be taken into account in the legislation on student aid, so that, for example, short-term transitions to apprenticeship and back to the educational institution do not break the student's right to study aid. The Committee therefore considers it absolutely essential that the Ministry of Education and Culture urgently examines the problems of student study aid for vocational education and training students and, on this basis, takes the necessary measures to amend the legislation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u54	Mr President! In the Government's proposal, the procedures for the granting of study grant conditions will be made more flexible. In order to obtain the right to study aid, it is no longer required that the organiser of the training organiser organises such training for at least one year. However, the organiser of the training must have operational, professional and financial capacity to organise the training. The aim is, of course, to complete a degree or part of a degree. In addition, the law would be amended to remove the requirement that the reason for the slowing down of studies should be temporary. In a student’s life situation, there may be more than sickness-like difficulties that make studying difficult. For example, the next of kin’s illness, dyslexia, or traumatic experience are examples of such obstacles or delays in studying. They should be taken into account, but of course there must be a limited period of time, the student allowance cannot be eternal. The Education Committee also unanimously states that it is important to take into account the actual situation of the student and the consistency of the decision-making practice at national level in the context of receiving student support. In addition, the Committee on Education and Rural Development makes a strong point about the situation of apprentices. With the reform of vocational education and training, short-term transitions to apprenticeship-based education and back to the educational institution should not be allowed to break the student's right to study grants. The Committee considers it important for the Ministry of Education and Culture to clarify these problems in vocational education and training. Mr President! Finally, for years the Finns have also stressed the importance of apprenticeship training, as practical skills are invaluable in working life. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u55	Mr President! Thank you to the previous government for this excellent amendment to the Student Support Act. After all, the student's student's student financial aid is not interrupted when the progress of studies is slowed down for an acceptable reason, such as illness, difficult life situation or, for example, dyslexia, visual or hearing impairment. There are many of these students affected by this change. It is quite clear that students should not be penalised for delaying their studies in such situations. Now that we are discussing student aid, it must also be pointed out that the student must not be punished for working either. Kela bears out student financial aid from over 40,000 students this year because Kela feels that they have been too busy and worked too hard. This is insane. The limits of the free income of student support prevent students from earning and acquiring their own skills and creating artificial scarcity. At the same time, the state is losing millions of euros in net income. Mr President! According to the study carried out by the Finnish Labour Institute, which was commissioned during the previous government, the adverse effects on income would be largely eliminated if, for example, the income threshold for increasing the student allowance for nine months were EUR 18000 instead of the current EUR 12,000, i.e. the limit on free income would be increased by 50%. In view of tax revenue and current transfers, this option would increase general government net revenue by an estimated EUR 5.9 million per year. So, except for the award of a hard-working student, society as a whole would win almost EUR 6 million per year net. This makes sense. At present, the system does not encourage the student to become active or to acquire work experience and skills. Working must be as profitable as it is in a situation. The limits of the free income of the student allowance must be raised. Regrettably, the Red-Green Government Programme does not include the award of a hard-working student for work. I call on the government now to take the wit and bring to Parliament a proposal to increase the limits of the free income of study aid.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u56	Mr President! I warmly support the amendment of the law drafted by the previous government in order to make study aid more flexible. It is also very important that those students who have difficulties and challenges to progress in their studies — for example, because of dyslexia or hearing or sight challenges — do not lose their livelihood. So this is the last government's legal project. Now I hope that the new government will be more ambitious in reforming this student aid. Three years ago, when I was chairing the youth of Peruvian Finns, we suggested that a model of incentives for student support would be introduced in Finland, which means that those students who would like to graduate more quickly would have an economic incentive for this, which would not at the same time punish those who study a little slower. In other words, if you complete, for example, a university degree, a candi and a master's degree, a five-year degree, for example, in three years, you will receive that five-year student grant in three years. For a number of reasons at the moment, quite a few students do actually study at a university or university of applied sciences in the morning and afternoon, for example, and then go to work and to work that in fact does not qualify at all for the profession they are studying for. Thus, these students would be able to study that profession in the morning, including that profession in the afternoon, and would still receive just as much student financial support as a student who decides to study five years but works at the same time in the evening. In other words, there are students who are desperate and in a hurry to enter the world of work to carry out the profession that they dream of and are studying for, and who, at the same time, would not want to do any other work at the same time. There are those who want to, but then there are those who don't want to. From the state's point of view, this would be a great thing, because this is going to happen in a way that enables these people to graduate much faster — that is, they have the capacity to graduate much faster, they have the internal motivation to study much more. They graduate faster, start working in their own field, also bring more tax money to the government. In other words, the state benefits financially, can be better supported by public services, and the student has a better position in terms of income if he wants to study faster. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u57	And the chairman of the Committee on Culture, Mr Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u58	Mr President! Indeed, the Student Support Act would need to be amended and further developed in the future. This proposal, which has now been here, must come into force from the beginning of August, but in the future the whole law will require a comprehensive review. I warmly support Mrs Vestman's emphasis on raising the limits of work for students. After all, work should always be worthwhile, even during study. A relationship with work is formed at a young age, and if we give a signal that young people are encouraged to work, if that is possible in view of their situation in life, it will only generate more good workers for Finland and is to be welcomed in terms of livelihoods. In other words, if the student progresses well in his studies, the income limits should be higher, and work should not be an obstacle to receiving student support. This is a clear new target for the current government, and I hope we will see this in the next four years in the new study aid law committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u59	Mr President! This bill, which would, among other things, benefit dyslexics and hearing and visually impaired people, so that their student support would not be interrupted in the future — and many other groups, students would benefit from this — is well supported. But I also agree with the views expressed here that it would be a very strong reason for this new Rinte government to consider raising the income limits for student aid. In my view, these income limits have not increased for several years. Yes, a significant withdrawal would be timely at the latest. Working during studies often increases practical understanding of the student's own field and can actually speed up the studies. At least when I myself studied at the end of the 1990s as a diploma engineer and also got work in my field during my studies, it did help both the employer and myself in the progress of the studies. Of course, it must be remembered that the student’s graduation period, the reasonable progress of studies, is important, but it may be that when you get good experiences from that working life, your studies will also progress more quickly. Of course, when there is no concern about your own financial income, it would also be easier to invest in studies. Mr President! On the basis of these experiences, too, I can say that this work, especially if it relates to its own field, will improve the student's working life capacity and, in my opinion, speed up the transition to full-time work when the studies are completed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-13-ps-17.u60	Mr President! It has to be said that it is precisely in the case of these students who, after their studies in the afternoons, are able to do work that is of particular benefit to them from the point of view of working life, which obviously also supports that study, and in this respect what Mrs Savio, Mrs Vestman and Mrs Laiho have said, for example, is quite reasonable. This was also calculated by the previous government: that is, when it was raised to a certain extent, there would be more revenue in the treasury of the State. So it also has a positive impact on public finances. In addition, it must be said that there are indeed these people who do not really want to do a job outside of study, but that study is purely and speedily so that they can get to work. Thus, this model of incentives for student support and the raising of these income limits, both as a tool for simultaneous implementation, would improve the position of very different students in a variety of ways. These two things are not in any way incompatible with each other, so both should be implemented. And I wonder who was talking about whether it was Mr Laiho, that we should now do that overall reform and review of this study aid. This is definitely something that the new government should do, absolutely. - Thank you.
