ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that the President of the Swedish Parliament, Andreas Norlén, and his party have come to follow the plenary session. On behalf of the Parliament, I welcome honourable guests to Parliament. Ärade ledamoter! En delegation under ledning av talmannen i Sveriges ricksdag Andreas Norlén är rauh för att följa plenum. På riksdagens vägnar älsar jag våra ärade gäster väkomna till riksdagen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u2	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today all groups have proposed the issue of care for the elderly and services for the elderly. That is why we are using this Question Time on this subject. I would now ask those Members who wish to put a question to the Minister to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u3	Questions for Question Time will begin with Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u4	Thank you, Mr President. On the weekend, we received bad messages about the situation in the care of the elderly, which I am sure none of us have been able to read with a cold heart. The care community of Esperi Care has neglected care for the elderly in such a serious way that the care community had to be closed down. Although this incident in Kristiina Town is the most flagrant in the head, it can probably be said that the care of the elderly and the disabled is not currently in order in Finland. In various ways, messages have been sent to the government from carers, relatives and organisations for years that there are too few people working for the elderly — both in housing homes and in home care. I hope now we all wake up to this fact. In the light of these examples, I ask you, Minister of Responsibility Saarikko: do you think that care for the elderly in Finland is all right?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u5	Mr President! Things in the care of Finnish elderly people are not as good as they should be. It is great that we can discuss this in depth today and shed light on the various approaches to a broad issue. There's good care, there's bad care. The majority of the elderly Finns do not yet need help, and six out of ten of them are home service customers. Four out of ten are covered by the services where the supervisory authority in Kristiinankaupunki used its strongest possible measure, i.e. shut down an entire unit of Esperi Care. I trust that the Authority had carefully considered its action. Prior to that, attempts had been made to instruct, reprimand, reprimand, and lead things to the right order. This did not happen and may be asked,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u6	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u7	Mr President! It is a good thing that the Minister has also woken up to the seriousness of the matter and admits that there is something to be corrected. It is a question of human rights, which are now being violated in the case of the elderly and the disabled. Problems in the care of the elderly are bound to be counterbalanced by the fact that in many places there are too few medical personnel. Promises and recommendations have not improved the situation, and that is why we need minimum measurements in legislation. The SDP has been calling for sufficient nurseship to be recorded in the law for years, but this has been resisted by various pretexts. The examples of Esperi Care show that without a strong legal backrest, the number of carers is usually reduced for savings reasons. I would like to ask Minister Saarikko: Would it not now be appropriate to finally register the personnel measurements in the law? Will you bring a proposal on this matter again during this parliamentary term in order to put this matter in order?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u8	Mr President! Before answering the substance of the matter itself, Parliament had given instructions to the Government that the laws still in time for this parliamentary term should have been brought to Parliament by 5 December. In other words, it is not possible to make the changes you have proposed in the context of this parliamentary term on a timetable. The main goal of the government, also because of the elderly in Finland, is finally to complete the restructuring that will guarantee better service providers instead of existing municipalities: larger and stronger provinces. As far as your question is concerned, I fully agree with you, the representative, that Finnish nursing staff — local nurses, nurses and other professionals — are the heart and core of good care. Attention should be paid to the issue of the health care staff's ability to cope, but it is also positive. The quality recommendation you refer to, which guides the number of staff, has led to good development. That's where it's recorded.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u9	Mr President! I was glad to see today, Minister Saarikko, your TV, in which you said that you were in favour of recording the identity of the elderly services into the law. I don't understand. Why do you say you're in favour of this, but you're avoiding responsibility on the grounds of schedule? After all, laws are being brought into this house all the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u10	Mr President! The focus of this parliamentary term's elderly work has been on the development of home care. For the past week, we have been discussing, and rightly so, the issue of enhanced service housing, in other words care places where day-to-day nurses support the elderly. However, the majority of services are home care. Among other things, we have developed 24-hour home care and service guidance for the services. And we have also ensured that the finances of the municipalities have not been weakened as in the previous period, [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u11	Mr President! I would like to thank each of the nurses and relatives who have brought these cases to our attention. Thank you for their courage, for their empathy, for the fact that we are discussing and discussing this issue. It's our parents, our grandparents, the people who built this country. They deserve good care, care. They deserve to be able to experience that ageing in Finland is safe, appreciated and cared for. We want every old man, an elderly person, to sleep safely at night. We want each of them to have enough food and food. We want each of them to be able to go outdoors as well. They must definitely have the right to do so. All of this goes a long way to the question of a nurse’s appointment, that we have sufficient staff to manage, for example, in our service housing and institutional housing. I would like to ask once again whether you are prepared to remedy this situation, to bring to Parliament a proposal to which all parties seem to be very broadly present.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u12	Let's stay in one minute. There's a lot of questions left. — Minister Saarikko and then Minister Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u13	Mr President! I've already answered. There are the timetable realities that bind this parliamentary era and the special focus of the government on the need for structural reform, the famous reform of the social welfare region, to be completed so that we finally have the time and opportunity to focus together on this kind of content debate, which is the most essential, and that Finns — those whose relatives are currently in the service of the elderly, for example — measure the confidence and the desire and courage of society as a whole and their interest in paying taxes to this society, so that their loved ones and elderly people are treated with dignity. It is also essential to take into account the facts after the quality recommendation has been set, i.e. the idea of what guidelines are for the number of employees in the field. Things are better. On average, 0.64 carers and 0.66 carers per person treated in private nursing homes and in the public sector. We are already heading in a good direction with this quality recommendation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u14	Madam President! We are now at the heart of social and health services. It is about caring, it is about taking care of the most vulnerable elderly and disabled people. Last season, we adopted an old-age service law here, which improved the legal security of elderly people and opportunities for good old-age services. This was supposed to be a joint message from Parliament that we can grow old safely and take care of the elderly, but it was different now. One of your government's first proposals was the weakening and cutting of the old-age service law. This has now become concrete in the form of neglect of care for the elderly and even in the form of neglect for the elderly. This has now also contributed to the fact that the workers in the elderly service are very tired, anxious and exhausted. Mr President, Mr Orpo, I understand that you are not prepared to present a draft law on human resources, but, Mr Orpo,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u15	Let us now take Minister Saarikko and Minister Orpo, in this order.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u16	Mr President! As I prepare for this Question Time, I wonder whether you will choose a style in the opposition in which you accuse us of cutting off the services of the elderly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u17	Madam President! We have to give every old man the best treatment. That is our common goal, and that is what we have all tried to achieve together. Each of us in turn — you were in government last season, now this government — has developed our services for the elderly. These problems have been known to us all, and together we have tried to resolve them. Under the leadership of Minister Saariko and previously under the leadership of Minister Rehula, special emphasis has been placed on home services involving 60,000 elderly people. They have been a key concern. But there are still problems, and I cannot accept any omissions that we have. And I cannot accept at all, and as a government, we cannot accept the fact that profit is being sought at the expense of the elderly. You can't win at the expense of the elderly. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u18	Mr Lindtman, then we will take the questions of the other groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u19	Mr President! The measure of civilization in society is how we take care of those who have built this country for us. And now the situation is that elderly people are treated in Finland in a way that does not meet the criteria for decent care. This has been known for a long time, and therefore a minimum measure, at least a minimum level, is needed as to how many staff are in the pipeline to avoid these omissions. This is about whether we are trying to find new explanations or whether action is being taken. Mr President! The government claims that it could no longer bring the proposal to Parliament. Last today, the government has brought to Parliament a proposal on agricultural income tax. The government is always producing presentations, coming to investors, coming to agriculture. But now it is a question of whether you will answer this question. The elderly demand this, the nurses demand it, the relatives demand it. Minister Orphan, is that the case last time you were here today?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u22	Let’s take first — which one first? Minister Saarikko and then Minister Orpo, briefly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u23	Mr President! I fully agree with the rapporteur's assessment that all this, which is now the subject of public debate, is part of our concept of human dignity. We are talking about enhanced service housing, round-the-clock care of the last homes of people's lives. We are also talking about death, the grief of the family and the very heavy care work, because all the studies show that we are living longer and longer, and that also means that the people being treated are worse off than before. My particular concern therefore rests on the messages and studies that concern the ability of staff and the attractiveness of the sector in the future. It would be easy to say that only by adding a section to the law would it all be resolved. However, this is not the case. For example, I want to challenge all municipal decision-makers in this Chamber. In our outsourcing of services to private companies, have we invested in quality factors in the competitions? It has been a very significant deficiency when, as decision-makers, we have only stared at the price. If the only thing that's going on is that we're just staring at the price,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u24	Madam President! As was wisely said here, the sign of a civilized society is how it cares for its elderly. [Left: And deeds! ] I will continue to renew my idea of working together in parliamentary terms. We will have the next government negotiations, whoever they are, within the next few months, and good preparations will be made. I think this is such a big question, and since, in this parliamentary term, determined work has been done on home services, for example, an old-age service law has been adopted in the past, so we will continue this work together and lay the foundations.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u26	And then we go to the other groups' questions, one at a time. The Finnish People's Parliament Group, representative Elomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u27	Mr President! However, the mega-enterprises in the nursing sector continue to make millions of profits as the service level is still weakened when staff are cut off. This is reflected not only in patient safety but also in the ability of the medical staff to cope. It is difficult to reconcile profit-making by large companies with the well-being of patients and carers. Nurses are at the edge of their lives. Everyone suffers when, at the same time, an atmosphere of fear is created, so that problems are not dared to talk about. Because of the government's decisions, a lot of grandmas and grandpas are not taken care of. I was working on care for the elderly myself back in the '70s. A lot of hard work was done at the time, but there were no such serious problems. The Centre has said that it wants to have a nurseship in the law, as the Finns of Finland have been demanding for a long time. You've been Prime Minister's Party for four years, but now you're waking up in the run-up to the election. I have some doubts about this. Is the government serious so that you want to record a nurse’s appointment in the law, and are you prepared to limit the millions of profits of mega-enterprises?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u28	Mr President! The staffing was not included in this government's programme. This is not Question Time for individual parties' positions, but Question Time for the Government's line. Mr President! You referred to these large foreign companies in your question, and I have studied this subject a great deal this week. First of all, a few key figures on the subject. Finnish municipalities, with many decision-makers here today, have outsourced half of the services of 24-hour care to private companies. Perhaps the three largest ones stand out, can be called, a giant health company and a care provider, but it is also good to remember that we have hundreds of small entrepreneurs, family-based operators, small nursing homes, which are now also counted under this private heading. This field of action is also diverse. And, as I have said before — and I am happy to repeat my message — I cannot accept that the common rules of society that are enshrined in the law and in the quality recommendation are being trampled on in the name of greedy profit. It's greedy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u29	Then there is another question about the same group.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I have at least an e-mail and Messenger almost at the point of explosion when I receive messages from family and carers, and they are very happy that this subject has now come up. But this general, how do I put it now, a little jargon-like saying, that we need to have high-quality goals and most of them receive good care, is now not responding to the people who are out there waiting, how their grandparents, their mother's affairs are being handled. They don't have time to wait until next summer for diapers to be changed, maybe they won't change diapers. Now the concrete question is what is the government going to do now and here. Why can't you define a nurse's size? As we have said here, there are laws all the time. It could be done now, because the recommendation is a recommendation. We have no other society based on recommendations — however quickly I drive a car — whether I pay taxes — so that it is left to people's discretion. Now, all of a sudden, decisions on the table, when the will state seems to be clear. If the assembly is the only one who opposes this, leave them alone now in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u31	Mr President! This has so far been a reference to the general big picture of the care of Finnish elderly people in enhanced service housing and home care. You're referring to individual cases. I have also received many similar communications from nurses, as I am sure we all do, and from people close to them. Perhaps I should recapture their ability to make a difference. First of all, this public debate must already have a great deal of effect. I also believe in the effectiveness of this. But then the way to act is our three-step control system: self-monitoring, which has not worked in these units, which have now at worst ended up being closed down by the supervisory authority. Another central responsibility is the municipality which is currently in charge of services for the elderly. Even if it outsources its services to private individuals through contracts and competitive tendering, they are still public services with common funds and the municipality must ensure that quality is achieved. The Authority, Valvira and Avi, are those who can be contacted and whose working list is currently long with these care units for older people, and I have great confidence in that work. And as for the recommendations, this is not
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u32	Now we need to focus on a minute for everyone, because we have a lot of questions here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u33	Mr President! I should like to complete Minister Saarikko's speech with regard to the municipalities. You are all aware that the municipal law already obliges municipalities to monitor these producers even if there is no production of their own, and that is worth remembering. And I say the same thing: there are a lot of municipal decision-makers in this Chamber, and I think in that way that instead of looking for those responsible in this debate, we must seek solutions together. Solutions must be sought in the municipalities of municipal decision-makers, what is being done, including with regard to own funding, whether there is sufficient funding there, how these services have been organised, and then, of course, the legislator thinks for himself. But what I would particularly like to refer to is this purchasing competence also in the municipalities. We have a new procurement law currently in force, for over a year. It is of the utmost importance that each municipality always looks after its expertise, so that quality is also highlighted and not just price determines. High-quality tip ahead,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u34	Then the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr Haavisto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u35	Mr President! The problems of care for the elderly must have upset us all. Such stories do not belong in the welfare state, and Finland must be able to guarantee proper care and the right to good old age for all. Nurses now have a legal obligation to report complaints to their employer. However, the stories we hear today from the nursing staff tell another: Many are intimidated. They say that they are afraid of cutbacks in duty schedules if they are too loud about these shortcomings. The employer may threaten to fire you or to sue you in different ways. And the same applies partly to customers and relatives — there is no courage to raise any objections. In fact, we live in a climate of fear about care for the elderly. What is the government going to do to break this climate of fear and to guarantee everyone the right to raise the issue without fear of being punished?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u36	Mr President! A very relevant and important approach to this issue. It is shocking and wrong for medical staff to see ethically questionable behaviour or even wrong in their work and not to be able to deal with it in the fear of their own job. On the other hand, however, it is good to remember that, at the same time as the most serious cases are now in the public debate, the municipalities are also doing good work, the companies are doing good work, and the lack of a supervisory authority has also made things better. Fortunately, not all cases end up at a point where the operating unit is closed down, but through guidance and comments, even through a remark made by the municipality as a buyer of services alone, things are getting better. I do not want to justify this, but I also want to strengthen the general image that all care in Finland is not bad and is not everywhere living in a climate of fear. We talk about such a large number of Finns, about the care of 40,000 people, that quite a lot of stories can fit into the whole. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u37	Mr President! If we had the opportunity, Minister Saarikko, to inform the health care staff anonymously directly to the authorities that are monitoring, could this not improve this particular climate of fear and make it possible for the staff not to be afraid of dismissal or consequences? You said there was a lack of self-monitoring. I am surprised, however, that the government is driving a market-driven social welfare model to Finland, which would specifically increase self-monitoring. This would increase the pressure on self-monitoring, and the authorities believe that the resources for supervision in general will not be sufficient as the social market is fragmented and the service chains become more complex. I therefore ask the government whether, as a result of the noises of these last few days, you have now given more thought to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u38	Madam President! It is now important to understand that the problems we are talking about today are the problems of the current model. They're the problems of the modern model. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u39	Next, the Left Alliance Parliamentary Group, and first of all, Mr Pekonen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u40	President! Today, all the parliamentary parties have declared their support for the registration of a binding carership in the law — except for the Coalition Party. Minister Orpo, the decimals in the nurse’s measurements are not lily stalks; they are real people and caring hands. Now you are here to propose parliamentary cooperation, but it seems that the rest of Parliament agrees on the need for the appointment of carers to be recorded in the law. Mr President! Ghost nurses have also come to the debate at the moment, that is, those nurses who do not exist at all. Working schedules may be designed so that they appear to be in place, but in reality they do not correspond to what is happening in practice. Not all shifts may be provided with carers, or even plans to invite carers to the planned shift, or carers will be invited, but working time is only four hours at the most urgent time. Minister, what problem do you see this ghost nurse problem and what measures are you going to take to put an end to this repulsive problem?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u41	Mr President! As a complement to the strong claims made by the recent questioner: in fact, in the forthcoming reform, the province will receive stronger legal clauses to support its role as guardian of the services that, for example, a customer voucher can provide and, for example, can lower the price for all service providers who do not meet the requirements. This important question, raised by Mr Pekonen, is a subject which I intend to address very seriously at the working meeting tomorrow with representatives of these major companies, among others. There are echoes from both the supervisory authority and personnel organisations, and I consider this phenomenon to be serious and, at worst, it is a crime if it includes the view that there is a consciously falsified documentation that the supervisory authority is reviewing. This is not a court of law, I am simply saying that the kind of activity that distorts the number of staff that elderly people have to support in coping with everyday life is unequivocally wrong and I will demand concrete commitments to stop this activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u42	Mr President! Petteri Orpo, these problems that have now been raised are the problems of the current model, and that is what you get when you combine inadequate funding with lack of control and profit. But these problems will not be solved by the government's social reform, but will only get worse. So if you are now concerned about the greed of large companies, why do you advocate a social welfare model in which profit-making will increasingly guide the production of Finnish social welfare and health care services? Control will not improve as a result of the social welfare reform, but will continue to be based on self-monitoring by companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u45	Now we do it in such a way that after a minute, the microphone goes off.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u46	Thank you. I'll do my best. — Mr President! I will start by saying that, Mr Andersson, our home town is Turku, and according to the municipal statistics we have received, 32 per cent of the services in our home town have been outsourced to the private sector. Larger numbers can be found in Vantaa and other large cities, such as Tampere. So the private service providers are already here. The difference between this model and the current situation, which you are now painting as a risk to elderly services, is above all that freedom of choice allows the elderly and his/her loved ones to influence where and in what kind of care service the elderly spends their last years. I think that this is a rather significant change in what is a person's own voice in services and the importance of quality. This will also affect, in terms of quality and criteria, the marginal conditions for even being able to become a service provider. Now the decision-makers are able or unable to make a decision
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u47	And now, Minister Orpo, briefly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u48	Madam President! Firstly, today, our social and health services and services for the elderly would not work a day if we did not have the third sector and the private sector involved. Their investment in the infrastructure of our elderly services and social and health services alone is one billion-dollar. This cooperation is absolutely essential and requires proper rules of play. That is why social welfare reform is necessary and strengthens the public sector’s grip on this whole — strengthens the grip — and will continue to be in the hands of the majority of social and health services, a large part of which is produced and determined by the public sector. Briefly: Minister Saarikko said that the number of care providers for the elderly is on average 0.65.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u51	Then the Swedish Parliament Group, Mr Henriksson.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u52	Mr President, Mr Värderade fru talman! Alla ska ha rautt till en trygg ålderdom, och vanvård kan aldrig över huvud tagat accepteras. Vi måste ta den ox saken på stort allvar.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u53	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Henriksson for the situation picture you gave at the beginning of your question that perhaps it is better for the elderly in Finland to really try to find common solutions now. Thank you for that. The observation you have made about the number of controls: Another concern that has also been raised in this Chamber last autumn has been child protection. That is where the government decided to increase the number of man-years of work for the supervisory authority. After all, the state overseer is twofold in the present system: Valvira for national operators and avi for local companies. Today, in fact, the public service does not need authorisation at all, unlike the private body. These two things are to be changed in the reform of the social welfare system. There will be only one supervisor who is stronger than the current dual model, Creative, New Control Agency, and in a similar way this whole thing will become clearer. As far as the resources of the supervisory authority are concerned, I share your concerns and I am also prepared to discuss this within the government whether it would be possible to increase resources in an acute situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u54	I hope you will not forget the Parliamentary Ombudsman, whom you yourself have appointed here as an overseer.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u55	Mr President, värderade talman! De fall av vanskötsel inom äldrevården som nu kommit till vår vetskap under den Senaste veckan är total förkastliga.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u56	Well, first of all, Mr President, it is up to the supervisory authority to monitor both the private and the public service provider. And more than the need for supervisory authorities would increase as if through freedom of choice legislation, the increase in the need is mainly related to the increasing number of older people in the future. In my opinion, we have agreed here to focus more on home care in the future, and control resources should also be sufficient. I would also like to correct the incorrect information in your question that the supervisory authority, Valvira or avi, would act as if only on the basis of notifications or comments. The Authority will also carry out own-initiative missions within its resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u57	Then we'll go to the next group. Christian Democratic Parliament Group, represented by Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u58	Madam President! In many places, the disastrous situation in the care of the elderly is not a new problem; this has been repeatedly raised. My question is: is this the moment when the matter is actually being taken seriously and the correction process is being started immediately? There are glaring shortcomings in the care of the elderly, both in institutions and in home care. There's also a really big concern about the nurses' ability to cope. The government would have had the opportunity to invest in care for the elderly in this year's budget, but it seems that the elderly were left behind. The drastic cuts in central government contributions inevitably affect the ability of municipalities to respond to the growing need for care. Competitive tendering also requires skills and legislative changes to ensure a good level of care. I would like to ask the ministers concerned: what immediate steps will you, my dear ministers, take to improve the situation of care for the elderly quickly and to ensure adequate human care and care?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u59	Minister Orpo, then Minister Vehviläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u60	Madam President! There have been no drastic cuts in state subsidies, no cuts in state subsidies. The index is frozen, but it's not severe surgery.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u61	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say very strongly here that the local government economy has not deteriorated during this term of government, quite the contrary. When you look at the balance of this for a few years, it is actually a plus of EUR 33 million — this is a fact. And then it may be well to remember that if new tasks or obligations have been imposed on municipalities during this government, there has been a 100% state-owned share. But then I would like to say that, of course, central government transfers are of enormous importance to the basic services of the municipality, how they can be organised and financed there, but then, of course, there is the other funding that the municipality has — mainly tax revenue, which is the other financial income of the municipality. I found out that we only have a few municipalities that receive 40% or more of their own income through state contributions. In other words, each municipality is responsible for its basic services, including services for the elderly,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u62	Madam President! Minister Orpo, I'm going back to these decimals. When it comes to decimals, it is a question of the number of caring hands. [of the Socialist Group : Just like!]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u63	Minister Orpo, and then briefly Minister Vehviläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u64	Mr President! So this is not party Question Time. — The government has been determined — as has the previous government — to work towards improving Finnish services for the elderly, and the main focus has now been on home services, because 60,000 elderly people are in home services. Very good work has been done there. We have seen that the number of nurses has gone up, thanks to the good old-age service law that has been made. The most important thing for us is to see to it that there are enough carers in the care places, which is what the elderly need. [of the Group of the Party of European No, it's not!]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u65	Mr President! We're going to the archaeology side, if that's what you can say. I was then a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health when this old-age service law, which was important to us all, was introduced at the time and there were many different ponies. If you look at that report, it contained a lot of ponies and good ponies. But this question of dimension, as the then Minister Räsänen knows, has not progressed there within the government. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u66	Then there are three more questions left. Central Parliamentary Group, representative Kalmari.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u67	Madam President! It's great that the center of town said that we need to pass this nursing appointment on from the recommendation to the law. It's a choice of values. Those who slow down the reform of social services will soon be able to taste their own medicine in many municipalities. There are knocks from supranational corporations behind doors, promises of land and mannas, and I know that in many municipalities there will be total outsourcing. That is why I would like us to jointly and constructively take this to the finish line, so that we can move on from this situation. I appreciate the nurses there in the service homes, but I equally appreciate the volunteers. As chairman of the voluntary service support group, I would like to say that, for example, in my own municipality of residence, all elderly people are allowed out. There more than 5 per cent of the residents of the municipality are in the SPR’s friend service. My question is: what can we do to make this spread to other municipalities?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u68	Mr President! Representative Kalmari, it is good to hear that in Kivijärvi, love of neighbor is carried out by volunteer forces. It is not counted as a human resource measure, but its value may still be very high. That is why, in the midst of all this debate and presentations, perhaps one of the messages of this debate should be that the ageing of Finnish society is such a big change for us and that our image of the country is changing so dramatically that we can never think that the question of the elderly will be solved by nurses alone. It is unreasonable to think that Finnish local nurses, the tens of thousands who work, would be able to do it on their own if the family and loved ones did not take responsibility and if we did not consider the possibility of volunteering for ourselves, especially among the elderly at home. This discussion has been too focused on care, i.e. on the sorrows not least of which loneliness is not the least, it was the everyday life of an elderly person in 24 - day care or living at home. Your speech in this regard was very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u69	And then the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party, Mr Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u70	Madam President! When shocking sexual crimes against children were revealed in Oulu, Group Chairman Antti Lindtman invited all groups to discuss solutions to the problem. When shocking neglects were revealed in nursing homes, the same Lindtman called the opposition to ask the government an interim question. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u71	Mr President! As far as the proposals are concerned, the same answer as the previous question of human resources: the sudden changes in the Act on services for the elderly through short-term preparation are now not possible. But as a principle, the idea that we strengthen corporate social responsibility, for example through the intimidation and sanctions of the law, seems right to me.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u76	Did Congressman Lindtman have a comment?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u77	Mr President! Mr Saarikko, you are not going to get away from this question. Four hours ago, you told the Finnish people on Twitter that the law must have a binding nurseship. Four hours ago. Now you will not be able to tell us here whether you still agree and whether you intend to bring this proposal or not. What happened between us? Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz, the greatest wish of all of us — I am sure the elderly and their loved ones, their loved ones and their carers — is that we should now finally be able to do what is necessary for good care, and it requires that the size be recorded in the law. The situation is that there is a parliamentary agreement in this House and only one is exhausted and it is a coalition. Minister Orpo, how long are you going to stand in the way of good care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u78	Mr President! Despite the fact that in my party's parliamentary election programme we took a stand for the nurseship and I am behind it personally, I would say that we are going to let ourselves go a little too easily if we think that, by measuring round-the-clock care, we are going to solve everything that the ageing of Finnish society will lead to. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u79	Then there is the short answer, Mr Orpo, and then there is the question of the blue parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u80	Mr President! Well, that's a good thing to keep going, because I think there's a lot of handwashing in this room right now. [ Hustles from the left] But we have to look at this reform of the old-age service law as a whole, and that requires thorough preparation: we have to look at home services, informal care, these control systems and sanctions and do it through social welfare reform. You offer an easy solution to a complex problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u81	Then the blue parliamentary group, Mr Torvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u82	Madam President! That news of the last few days has indeed been shocking to read and hear. That is clear to all of us. It is good that things are being clarified after that fuss has arisen, but it is very wrong that this report should take place in the media and now because of this political escalation. It's all wrong with the old people. Remember, we are now enjoying the achievements of the previous reign. The famous Social Democratic Finance Ministers, Urplainen and Rinne, cut the government shares of municipalities by a billion. [of the Socialist Group : Oh! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u83	Mr President! It is true, as the questioner points out, that the Freedom of Choice Act, which is being discussed here in Parliament — which defines the way in which the private sector and the third sector as service providers will continue to be part of our social welfare world — defines more precise obligations to report on the activities and accounts and the starting point of the activity on the basis of which the services are paid to the province. In this respect, the situation with regard to the supervision of companies will therefore become clearer. In the same way, the province has responsibility and, at its worst, has the opportunity to suspend activities if, for example, they do not meet the quality expectations and the criteria set by the province for service providers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u84	Then I will give one last speech to the first questioner, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen. Then there is the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u85	Mr President! We will continue this heated debate later. At the end of this Question Time, however, I would like to speak constructively in the sense that this important issue will hopefully not cause us to be unable to discuss this difficult issue. Mistakes have been made, and the most important thing is that we learn from them, which is why too much blaming each other will not help. We should now start work to correct the situation of older people in society. In the near future, the SDP will publish an age policy programme, which has therefore been prepared before these unfortunate cases arise, and there are clear solutions to remedy these issues, including the inclusion of binding care measures in the law, but the programme will also address the building of an age-friendly society, the promotion of health and well-being, access to timely and appropriate services and also care, care and rehabilitation issues. Do you promise, Minister Saarikko, to read this program? That would be a good basis and a good basis
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u86	Mr President! As soon as your show is public, even tonight. Many parties have published their programmes, and in principle I think that the rather difficult, demanding and tearing debate over recent years on the structures, freedom of choice and the role of municipalities and municipalities has been an approach that may not have been addressed by Finns. This has perhaps been more of a reflection on governance and the model of organisation. This debate, which again today became a strong part of Question Time, in fact the whole of it, reflects the feelings of the Finns. On the basis of the contacts we have at least received on these matters, we know that Finns are concerned. Of course, we also remember that those who are satisfied do not always necessarily contact us, but are only satisfied with the services. Indeed, those who have experienced wrongs have their place in contact with us decision-makers to wake up to difficult issues and direct mishaps.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u87	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications, to which the Committee on Finance must deliver an opinion. After the presentation by the Government, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes and any other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. In addition, in the order I am considering, I will give you 1 or 2 minutes of responses. First there is Minister Berner, please. He's going to introduce this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u88	Madam President! The Government has presented a report on the preparation of the national transport system plan. This report corresponds to the final report of the unanimous working group on the preparation of the parliamentary national transport system plan, which was published on 13 December 2018. The procedure set out in the report complements the general rules for drawing up a national transport system plan laid down in the Transport System and Roads Act. This is a 12-year plan drawn up in cooperation with regions and operators using the transport system to respond to rapid changes in the operating environment. Conversation and genuine dialogue will play a key role in the preparation of the first national transport system plan. Mr President! The need for a national transport system plan is obvious. Global megatrends, such as urbanisation, technological development and digitalisation, are currently changing our operating environment. Climate change and its fight will change our operating environment and at the same time make important demands on our transport system. In the face of these new challenges, we need a cooperative national and long-term view of what kind of transport system we are aiming for and, most importantly, the objectives we are setting for the transport system itself. In particular, climate targets require a common vision and commitment on how to achieve emission reduction targets. The objective of a carbon-neutral society in 2045 also requires significant action at the level of the transport system and time is not wasted. The national transport system plan also sends a long-term signal to business operators, among others, on how our transport system will be developed nationally in the coming years. This will help them to develop their operations, as the transport system has a major role to play in ensuring the operating conditions of the business community. Transport and mobility are not absolute values; they are tools that bring added value to our activities. A well-functioning transport system provides significant societal benefits. In line with the report, the general social objectives of the development of the transport system should be to promote Finland’s competitiveness, combat climate change, and the vitality and accessibility of the regions. The vitality and accessibility of the regions means that our country can live and act as a trader regardless of its location. This includes efficient travel chains, the existence and adequate condition of the necessary transport and communication infrastructure, as well as the development of services and the exploitation of information. All these issues are also considered in the national transport system plan. It may be very difficult to disagree with the social goals I have just mentioned. They provide excellent conditions for setting targets for the transport system. According to the law, a functioning, safe and sustainable transport system should be promoted. In addition to this, we need a number of other objectives for the transport system, which the report says could include smooth journeys, flexible everyday life and fair business opportunities. Madam President! A national transport system plan would be prepared under parliamentary guidance. The plan would be updated and refined every four years and, at the same time, it would be planned four years ahead so that the 12-year horizon would be maintained. The goal is a rolling and continuous process that guarantees commitment over the reigns. The updated plan for the Government term would be presented as a report to Parliament, and Parliament would take a position on the content of the plan to the extent it wanted. Preparation of the first plan would begin after the elections when the parliamentary steering group had been set up. Preparation of the plan is currently being prepared at civil service level. In order for the plan to be long-term and binding, it must also include a State funding programme. As in the past, Parliament decides to finance the development of the transport system as part of the annual budget. At present, the level of funding for transport is not sufficiently sustainable. The condition of the fairway continues to deteriorate, and transport infrastructure cannot be developed in such a way as to support the operating conditions of our business life or the working everyday life of our citizens. The national transport system plan can also comment on the new financial models that we have also considered in connection with parliamentary work. I hope that this parliamentaryly prepared report on the preparation of the national transport system plan will be well received in Parliament and that the debate around it will provide further good prospects for the preparation of the plan itself. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u89	Let me now turn to the group speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u90	Mr President! The decision-making process must recognise the facts. Finland is a country of long distances and sparsely populated areas. The promotion of Finland’s competitiveness, the fight against climate change and the vitality and accessibility of the regions require efficient transport connections and well-functioning transport routes throughout the country. Parliament's report on the preparation of the 12-year national transport system plan sets out guidelines for long-term and over-the-term fairway policy. The future transport system plan must look at all modes of transport as a whole. Account must be taken of the different needs of urban areas, employment areas, long-distance transport and sparsely populated areas. Efficient transport connections enable industry and trade, as well as the smooth movement of goods and people throughout the country. Mr President! A strong fairway policy that takes into account the different needs of the future requires adequate funding. In addition to central government budget funding, other forms of funding are also needed. Projects need to be planned more carefully in order to improve Finland’s ability to distribute EU bus money. The city centre is ready to renew its funding for the fairway, even if it is immediately. We would like to know if that readiness exists in other parties. It is regrettable that the reform fell, or rather fell, almost two years ago. The reformers celebrated, but there were no solutions to the problem of funding the fairway. That is not a responsible policy. In the view of the Centre, a new State-owned bus company should be set up to finance these projects, which would be responsible for major investment and development projects. This would allow central government budget funding to be allocated to lower-tier roads where market-based funding is not available. The renovation of poor access routes, i.e. the so-called repair debt programme, must be continued by increasing the funding of basic infrastructure management by at least EUR 300 million per year. The condition of the gravel road network must also be taken into account. The increase in the level of private state subsidies must be continued. Mr President! Another key element is the emission reductions in transport. It must proceed systematically, decisively, gradually and also with moderation, not by auctioning out the largest number of electric cars or by banning internal combustion cars. The climate is not saved by making driving more expensive. The Centre believes that there is a need for a parliamentary programme to reduce emissions from transport to Finland that extends beyond the parliamentary term. No single instrument is sufficient, but a number of solutions are needed, taking into account the impact assessments of different solutions as well as technology and its development prospects. Decisions must be made to ensure the possibility of affordable mobility solutions across Finland. The transition from fossil fuels to renewable energy is possible through fuel distribution obligations, the electrification and serviceisation of transport and more efficient public transport. When assessing the total emissions, account shall also be taken of fuel production methods. Promoting walking and cycling can contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions from transport. Transport and car taxation must be based on long-term and stable tax policy developments. We are in favour of gradual reductions in the car tax by targeting them specifically on low-emission cars. Fuel taxation as a whole will not be tightened, but the taxation of sustainable biofuels must be reduced. Mr President! According to the Centre Party, Finland needs to be developed on an equal footing and listening to people. We are firmly defending the freedom of man to choose his place of residence from the end of an isolated gravel road as well as from a dense city centre. It is a resource and strength that transport policy must support.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u92	Madam President! Mobility is a fundamental human right. The conditions of movement and the smooth flow of traffic must therefore be ensured throughout the country. It does not necessarily mean that the conditions for mobility are similar throughout Finland, but that transport systems from air traffic to the smallest villages are in the same condition as their purpose and use and support economic activity and people's social interaction. In particular, large transport investments shape the living conditions and improve Finland’s competitiveness. Cities and rural areas are often artificially contrasted. This is very shortsighted and does not contribute to anyone's well-being, quite the contrary. In order to prevent confrontation, it is also important to move to a comprehensive and long-term 12-year transport system planning system in Finland, which takes account of all modes of transport and promotes the development of urban areas as well as rural mobility. This reform is now being implemented. The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party thanks Parliament for its common line. Mr President! Finland is committed to halving transport emissions by 2030 compared to 2005. The Coalition Party's parliamentary group believes that it is important in the fight against climate change that Finns continue to be able to move around on the same or better terms as they are today, even though emissions are being reduced. Finns must genuinely be offered low-emission alternatives before imposing full bans. Electric cars are the solution for the future, but we must recognise the realities. Car factories do not change their production and propulsion solutions for Finland's needs. Electric cars and rechargeable hybrids arrive on time and on a market-driven basis. Nor must we forget gas cars or other low-emission alternatives. In addition, two-wheel traffic should be invested in reducing congestion and emissions. Finland is a large and sparsely populated country. It is therefore understandable that public transport is not functioning well enough everywhere. In the opinion of the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party, a total ban on internal combustion engines is not justified. We also believe that the renewal of the car fleet and the development of transport links are the most important short-term solutions for reducing emissions. Taxation plays an important role in the renewal of the car fleet. A high car tax prevents the purchase of new low-emission cars and, unfortunately, also helps to import old polluting cars. We attach particular importance to replacing polluting urban diesel buses with electric buses. This is a quick and effective way to improve air quality in cities. Mr President! Rail transport will play a key role in achieving Finland’s climate objectives and in fast traffic between urban regions. A number of large rail projects are currently being planned, which are difficult to implement with traditional budget funding. Therefore, the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party is ready to examine new levels and models of funding, such as bus companies, for the implementation of projects. Future transport projects and the 12-year transport system will be prepared in cooperation with municipalities, regional federations, ministries and other stakeholders. When planning new projects, it should be remembered that the basic renovation of Finnish roads, railways and waterways has been neglected over the decades. Mr President! In the opinion of the parliamentary group, the future government must set up a self-repairing debt programme to reduce the chronic debt. This requires a level increase according to the line of the parliamentary group. Finally, health is the most important thing for all of us. Increasing the Archipelago is an essential part of the promotion of public health. Therefore, traffic planning must always take into account walking and cycling, both on business trips and in leisure time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u93	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! The Group of the Party of European Socialists is pleased that the preparation of the 12-year transport system plan has finally begun. The planning and implementation of fairway projects have long needed a more long-term approach in Finland, as in Sweden. Our limited resources do not stand up to a wooing policy at the expense of the transport network. Throughout the parliamentary term, the Social Democratic Group of the European People's Party has consistently pointed out the government's value for funding an important corrective debt programme in itself, at the expense of new projects. In addition to the correction debt, investment debt has thus been created. New transport projects were started during this government period to a value of between 1 and 1.5 billion less than in previous periods. Madam President! Currently, new transport projects run in public debate, according to the Chief of Staff estimate, worth nearly EUR 60 billion. Not all can and probably will not have to be carried out, but we need to get the work started quickly. The challenges facing the future of Finnish transport in terms of citizens' daily lives and working life will not be solved by one model. The sparsely populated country of long distances will need parallel operating models and opportunities. It is up to us how we can reconcile different solutions in a workable, fair and environmentally sustainable way. In the opinion of the SDP, the potential for public transport will increase to an important part. Fast rail connections increase working areas and create international competitiveness for Finland. Strengthening regional public transport solutions facilitates the everyday lives of many. We believe that mobility needs need to be better assessed in the design of the social and service structure. In the implementation of transport projects in urban areas, the MAL contract practice must also be used much more widely. Economic growth and employment also depend on the smooth running of transport in Finland. Climate targets contribute to driving heavy cargo onto the tracks. On the railways, the debt of repair is reflected in weight and speed limits and in the sensitivity to disturbance, where problems are quickly repeated because 90% of our network is monorail. Madam President! For future projects to be launched in a sustainable way, it is now necessary to examine, on a project-by-project basis, which model is the most effective for implementation and whether it is possible to involve non-state beneficiaries in costs as well. In terms of applying for EU funding, Finland has a considerable amount to improve. Transport projects are long-term investments, the life cycle of which is characterised by continuous technological and social development. In order for the transport system plan to be based on the best possible information, it is necessary to be able to carry out an impact assessment of the various projects much more widely and to develop better indicators. The proposed model for a transport system plan is a new form of action in Finnish decision-making. Its development is based on continuous and interactive cooperation. This will also require a new way of thinking on the part of governments and officials in the future. An open and wide-ranging debate is needed to find the best models. And above all, a genuine commitment to common policies over the parliamentary term is needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u94	Mr President! Without a functioning transport system, everyday life will not play. Traffic is needed in the everyday world, and transport needs infrastructure, and all of this affects our daily lives. Goods need to move, people need to move, people need to get to work, and so far all this has been planned in a short-term fashion in a four-year period and, unfortunately, with emphasis on the home of ministers. All this time, what I have been in Parliament, I have stressed the importance of long-termism, and the blue people have strongly advocated this 12-year plan. Fortunately, we are now taking a big step towards planned construction and infrastructure development, and 12-year planning is at the heart of that. What makes this 12-year plan possible is parliamentary cooperation. Without it and emphasising it, there is a risk of returning to that four-year government will. Parliamentary cooperation and long-termism are at the heart of this 12-year planning and implementation. Mr President! Investing in Infraa is also an investment in the future, investing in our competitiveness and improving vitality – we are also able to answer climate issues and, above all, to be able to live and live here in every corner of Finland. The whole of Finland and the world's environment thank for their contribution. People’s satisfaction also improves. In addition to building and improving roads, we must also take care of it. Finland knows how to deal with these winter challenges, but the infra needs to be continuously developed and improved. It cannot be that winter surprises road maintenance, track maintenance, year after year air traffic. Fortunately, Finland still has winter every year. When developing Infraa, account must be taken of the complexity of the entire transport system, the transport systems. Freight transport, passenger transport on land, sea, air and rail, from private roads and forest roads to freeways must be taken into account. We need to take into account the evolving technologies, such as truck hose driving, future electric cars with charging systems, the proliferation of gas-powered cars, why not hydrogen cars, and everything so that it is a comprehensive network that we can meet the challenges of the future. So you have to take everything into consideration from walking along the cycle paths and forwards. How do we get to this? It is absolutely essential, and the minimum, in fact, to make more infra-fund contributions, at least according to the line of the parliamentary group, every year, and this debt of correction must finally and finally be taken up with determination. Indeed, there is a correction debt in the investments there, so that too must be taken into account. But the world is changing fast, and the challenges must be met. Evolution doesn't wait for us. We need to invest in the infrastructure. Mr President! I personally see that the transport infrastructure is the basis for good traffic and that efficient transport, smooth transport, is an environmental act. Mr President, from space, the earth is blue. From here, when you look up, the sky is blue. And the investment in transport and infrastructure is the investment of the future. Mr President, let us invest in transport and enable our children to have a blue future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u95	Mr President! The first 12-year national transport system plan is to be prepared in the early part of the forthcoming Government term so that the plan can be decided in the spring of 2020. True Finns consider it important that our transport system is developed in a long-term and systematic way. The 12-year procedure provides a good framework for this. As the main objectives of planning, we emphasise the transport needs of industry and people. Traffic flow, speed and security are the interests of the nation as a whole. Today, the poor condition and lack of connections are causing millions of hours of time loss for both people and businesses. In the report of the working group, climate policy has received an unreasonably important role. The True Finns warn that far - reaching wrong decisions will arise in a hurry. That is why we are calling for consideration and accurate calculations as the basis for each decision. In transport, this is particularly important. As a good or really bad example, we would like to highlight the SDP's proposal for 750,000 electric cars. This proposal would require large capital for households. When do we get batteries that can last even a reasonable time? There is no charging point network. When freezing at 30 degrees Fahrenheit [30 ° C] and nearly all 750,000 cars are at the same time charged, quite a few new nuclear power plants are needed. At the same time, industry needs to spin and households and other consumers need to have access to electricity. The price of exchange power is rising to the heavens. Who's gonna pay for this? I do not even bother to deal with the Greens' presentations, because they are quite utopia. Mr President! When drawing up the transport system plan, the Finns of Finland stress transparency and safeguarding Parliament’s influence. According to the report, there are a wide range of actors in the preparation process. Bureaucracy is growing, but it does not guarantee transparency. After all, a plan is being drawn up for the people and for the business world. The Finns Party believes that the MAL agreements on land use, housing and transport should be further developed and that it should be possible to draw them up with more urban areas. This will increase planning and cooperation, especially in growth regions. Mr President! The entire new 12-year planning system will be ineffective unless the financing model for major bus projects can be reformed. The current annual budget funding of the state is at its end. Large transport projects are decades of investment. Their accounting treatment must be changed to that. It is even more important to introduce a new project model so that funding can be gathered from various sources. It is incomprehensible that Finland, as the only EU country, has not been funded by the Union for transport projects. This is entirely our own fault. In addition to the state and the EU, large projects can be financed by private investors and also by pension companies. Some pension companies have already expressed their readiness to do so. It is regrettable that: As in previous years, the Sipilä Government no longer allocated EUR 300 million for the repayment of the correction debt for this year. [OlaviAla-Nissilänkäyt-TimoHeinonenkäyttö] The Finns believe that the taxes and charges of traffic users, especially private car users, are already excessively high. They must not be blackmailed, especially under the guise of climate policy. We also reject tolls. Transport taxation needs to be reformed in the coming years.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u96	Madam President! At the very least, the speech of the people of Peru raised the Green Parliamentary Group — that is probably the intention of the political debate. Transport is one of the most important issues of the future, and it is already a key factor in our society at the moment. The development and change of transport is at the very heart not only of the everyday lives of people and societies but also of the fate of mankind, of the fight against climate change — Mr Ronkainen. Now we have a Government report on the preparation of the national transport system plan. According to the report, ‘the general social objectives for the development of the transport system are the promotion of Finland’s All of them are important goals. Finland’s success is a common cause for all of us, and we have a country with long distances and important social functions and industry across the country. However, when we are aware of all this, we must now and in the future also put transport at the heart of our objectives, specifically the fight against climate change, when climate change does not fight itself. Climate change must be combated by countless small and large actions in the world, in Finland and in everyday life — perhaps even in the everyday lives of Mr Ronkainen. In the fight against climate change, we must also do more to reduce emissions from transport. The challenge for the coming years is how to combine our other important transport-related objectives with climate objectives. As we well know, we don't have much time. Much has been said recently about zero-emission traffic. The rapid transition to zero emissions from transport must be one of the key objectives in Finland. Of course, the transport system plays a crucial role here, and without decision-making that goes beyond government terms, we will not succeed. The key to reducing emissions from transport is also to reduce unnecessary traffic. This is done through good and sustainable urban planning, for example. On the other hand, the transport system must make it possible to travel to places where there is a need to move. As far as we are concerned, mobility must be low-emission and ultimately zero-emission. Mr President! We Greens are committed to the goal that Finland should be carbon neutral by 2030. To this end, a wide range of means must also be explored to reduce the climate impact of transport. We have already proposed a number of ways of achieving this objective. It is important for long-distance movements to move more and more from air traffic to land-based traffic. Support for rail transport is essential and we have published a comprehensive package of measures. We want to get Finland on track. We need rapid development of the main line. It serves a significant part of Finland. The situation on the main track is a little awkward. According to statistics, more than 90% of VR’s trains are on an annual basis up to 5 minutes late in their schedule, when around half of the trains are delayed on the southern part of the main line even on an annual basis — that is a huge number, while on average 90% of train traffic is working quite well. The blockage in the Finnish artery is real. Investment in the main railway line serves a significant part of Finland. We also need a fast train connection from Helsinki to Turku. We need the development of the east track. We're gonna need commuters and raids. Transport investment should therefore be made better than it has been in the past. Of course, even now projects are being planned for years, but the parliamentary work and longer-term planning presented in this report are welcome. The transport system must be designed involving the parties, taking into account ecological requirements, enabling business to operate and ensuring a smooth everyday life for people. This is not an easy equation. However, the report we have before us contributes to these objectives. It is also important to find new ways of organising the financing and implementation of projects. Alliance models, for example, have been a good way to take public infrastructure projects forward — a good example, for example, the Tampere wheelhouse and the tunnel. There is also support for making project companies possible. We should therefore consider how we will be doing transport projects in such a way as to involve as many partnerships as possible. Project companies, for example, are therefore very welcome. Mr President! A very large proportion of emissions from Finnish mobility are still made up of everyday mobility. For many, their own car is still necessary for working, and many often drive alone. However, the ways of moving should be changed in a variety of ways. Where there are reasonable alternatives to driving, for example, congestion charges are needed. Private motoring in cities is always harmful not only for the climate, but also for health, comfort, safety and urban structure. That is why it is worth addressing. Even technological developments do not eliminate the fact that cities need space from cars to people. Nevertheless, we need to be taken into account that this is not the case across Finland, so we cannot just make transport policy on the conditions of growth regions, for example, but the key factor is to take account of people's different needs. Mr President! With this report we can respond to the increase in the correction debt, hopefully we can respond to the investment challenges of transport and hopefully we can get more traffic planning in Finland than we do now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u97	Madam President! Finland is a big country. In order for us to live well here, the movement of people and goods must be smooth, affordable and low-emission. The Left Alliance supports planning that goes beyond the parliamentary term. Since the development of the transport system is a long-term task, political fluctuations must not prevent it. The plan, which goes beyond the parliamentary term, also has the upside that internal intergovernmental or inter-ministerial frictions cannot unnecessarily slow down the development of the transport system. At least that's what I want to believe. A little more questions remain as to how, after all, the electoral period justering will work in practice — is the 12-year plan only a four-year plan after all? On the other hand, we need a rapid response capability if there is to be more activity than anticipated in a region or if our business structures change, as we have seen in New Town and Äänekoski, for example. That is why we must not selfishly hang ourselves on a plan that has been made, but must be able to react in changing situations. We also want a clear investment plan for the development of rail transport. The train must be able to move quickly and at an affordable price for both people and goods. This is not just by splitting up and bidding, but by repairing the rail network. Finland needs more railway capacity and rapid updating of safety devices in railway yards. Mr President! In this report, climate change, public transport and consideration of different areas of Finland have been taken into account. These are important issues for the Left Alliance. The same solutions are not suitable for everyone: there are quite different opportunities for mass transport in cities than in sparsely populated areas. It is great that the report recognises the importance of transport in the development of society as a whole. A long-term assessment of the time to repay investment and, in particular, the achievement of social objectives is very important. New rails, motorways, bridges or ports always aim for some common good, whether climate change is curbed, young people in remote areas are travelling to school, making work easier, or speeding up industrial transport. These need a long-term assessment so that we can decide what kind of Finland we want. At this point, the report wisely understands that transport investment is a contribution to the well-being of the future. Mr President! It is clear that due to the tight timetable for climate change mitigation, swift and effective action must first be taken. This means a change in the urban transport system: public transport support, possibly congestion charges for large urban areas, and the coverage of the network of charging and refuelling of electric and gas vehicles. Small and medium-income people must not be paid for climate policy, to whom increases in taxes and charges must be compensated by other taxes. It is equally clear that large transport investments are needed in a country the size of Finland. We want to keep the entire country's connections in order and the routes in public ownership and open management. The report presents three different scenarios for the financing of the transport system. We need at least 1.3 billion and more money for development projects. The relevance of alternative project-specific funding models can also be assessed and will be necessary. As an alternate, I was able to monitor the preparation of this plan in the working group. I am happy with the outcome, but it seems a little slow to get started. Fortunately, however, I believe that officials are already working and that the first plans will be adopted in the next parliamentary term. We are pleased with the role of democracy in drawing up the plan. When all parliamentary parties are involved in the preparation of the plan and the plan is submitted as a report to Parliament, the preparation can be considered sufficiently democratic.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u98	Ärade talman, Mr President! It is easy to agree with the general objectives of our country's transport system. The transport system must promote Finland's competitiveness, be based on solutions that prevent climate change, and ensure the vitality of the regions, just as the report says. Finland is a large country with a low population density and long distances. It is therefore very challenging to achieve these three objectives, especially when public funds are limited. We need smart solutions to create efficient transport systems that serve the whole country, both in urban centres and in sparsely populated areas, without forgetting island platforms.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u99	Madam President! The Government's report on the transport system plan is a welcome and expected document. We need long-term and over-revolutionary planning. The Christian Democratic Parliament Group welcomes the report and its objectives. However, good plans alone are not enough. The proposed measures must be put into practice. The main objectives of the transport system plan must be speeded up. A well-functioning transport system has a major impact on the success of our country's industry and on our country's international competitiveness. The concept of an hour train must be developed to facilitate commuting. Significant investment is needed to achieve these objectives. In the case of rail transport, the development of the main railway line is crucial. We need a fast and reliable connection from the Helsinki Metropolitan Area to Tampere and from there to Oulu in the north. Shortening travel times on the main track is of great importance for the economy of our country and for the 3 million Finns who live near the track. The main railway project should have received the planning money already for this year's budget. In order to maintain regional balance, it is also necessary to take the eastern track into consideration, particularly from Kouvola. One of the most important road projects is the improvement of highway 3. At the moment, Highway 3 has been waiting for a very long time for repair by a weak link, a plug in our road network. The report states that international contacts must be secured in a cost-effective way. The development of air connections is also key to Finland's exports. There has been a strong investment in Helsinki Airport, but other airports have been neglected. More efficient development of other airports is also needed. It would strongly serve the objective of improving air connections. Mr President! The development of the transport system and the consideration of regional needs require adequate funding. Various financing solutions must be taken into consideration without prejudice. The use of Velkara for key projects must not be excluded. Contributions to the transport network are an important investment in the future, which will bring common good to the nation as a whole and contribute to healthy regional development. Financial solutions must be made in a long-term and over-regime period, as the report points out. Parliamentary preparation and control are at the heart of this. It is important that all parliamentary parties are consulted and committed to a sustainable transport system plan. Transport solutions are neither party policy nor regional policy. Sustainable solutions take into account the needs of Finland as a whole and of all Finns. The Christian Democratic Parliament Group is committed to increasing funding for basic infrastructure management and finding financing solutions for the implementation of key transport projects. Mr President! The report highlights the objectives of the climate policy plan to reduce emissions from transport. Halving emissions by 2030 and zero-emission traffic by 2045 are tough targets. Reaching them is not a simple exercise. The goals are tough and must be directed towards them. However, it should be noted that Finland is a large and sparsely populated country. Various forms of mobility, including passenger cars, are necessary for many Finns. Even in Helsinki, a car is necessary for many people to run their own everyday life and work. At present, the price level of public transport does not correspond to the European average. The availability and accessibility of public transport is also inadequate in many places. There is a clear need for further investment in the development of public transport. Mr President! A well-functioning transport system includes roads, railways, waterways, air traffic and various transport services. We need a long-term approach to the development of the transport system. The needs of people and business must be fully taken into account. Climate and environmental factors must also be taken into account. This will make it possible to build the future in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u100	All right, there's a little bit of debatability in there. Let's start with Mr. Heinose's debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u101	Madam President! Thank you for your excellent contributions and thank you also to the Minister. This 12-year plan-thinking is certainly very welcome. We need to see further away from this whole and think of uniform chains of movement and travel — tracks, roads, escort traffic, this whole — so that people can move smoothly, but also goods and everything else. We must also be able to see further technological developments, and that is perhaps what is most hindering the good eyes of our politicians on that far-off future. We should be technologically neutral in legislation and courageously see that the world is going fast and we do not know what will happen in 10 to 15 years' time. I would like to thank the Minister for the correction work which will continue this year. I would also like to raise the issue of the car tax, which is actually restricting the renewal of our fleet of cars, and that would also be the most effective way of reforming our car fleet.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u102	Madam President! Thank you also to Minister Berner for the leadership of this parliamentary task force. It wasn't that easy, but we're in the finish line here anyway. Mr President! It is a question of creating a political will, and this plan will in future define that will state, not for four years, but for 12 years, and create a process that is going on all the time. Of course, that is the kind of funding that is needed. This EUR 1.3 billion is certainly needed for basic infrastructure management, plus, of course, development appropriations, whether it is EUR 500 million or EUR 1 billion. The Centre's group and centre are ready to support the fact that we are really looking for more than these models of project companies in order to obtain this new funding. Whether it is Infra oy, the balance sheet company or what, but without this, our yellow book will not respond to the transport policy challenges that are, however, absolutely essential for people, transport, industry, accessibility and also road safety.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u103	Madam President! Indeed, it is wonderful that such a system plan has now been put in place, but I would like to ask: when we know the rigidity of the Ministry of Finance, can this national plan fall into naivety in the sense that the regional representatives continue to fight in the blood and continue to fight in the face of where the money is given, is it still going to be the case that another government will correct or erase the projects of the previous government? This is the danger, precisely if the traffic volumes are not even enough to be a criterion — and it does not seem sufficient, for example, when the third road between Tampere and Ostrobothnia still has no money, even though it is the main route in Western Finland. Then, when we talk about other than traffic volumes, that is, business activities, then we should also finance Northern Finland and, among other things, tourism roads and so on. How do you solve this equation if you don't have enough money? This is precisely the danger that, although this is a good thing and a good project, it will fall into this again. That is why we also need a bus company that receives market-based money, and investment is needed from pension companies and also from other private sector operators.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u104	Madam President! On my own side and on behalf of the delegation, I would like to thank all the parties and the people who took part in this parliamentary working party, and of course Minister Berner in particular, who then scored these. I see for myself, as Mr Rossi said, that this is, as it were, a sort of political expression of will that Finland can, together, build a long-term plan for how different regions in Finland will be treated from the point of view of transport policy. I myself think that there are four major areas in Finland: the north, the west, the south and the east, and everyone has their own needs. They are somewhat different, but they must be taken into account because it is very important that industry, entrepreneurs and people are given a signal about what is going to happen and how different modes of transport are going to develop, because it creates a belief in the future in different regions, reduces confrontation and increases the enthusiasm for work and the spirit of doing things. That is what we must strive for in Finland to work more and our gross domestic product is growing, and all over the world the transport infrastructure is absolutely relevant to it,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u105	Madam President! Indeed, in the working group on this 12-year plan for transport systems, I was allowed to be involved myself, and I thank you for the atmosphere and the cooperation that we enjoyed across the political boundaries in that working group. This report, on which we are very much in agreement, has now included the output of our working group, and this agreement is tangible in this respect. That is why I am a little surprised in this debate that some of our fellow Members have experienced the need, in connection with this joint report, to engage directly in party politics and thus create disunity. The mitigation of climate change and the promotion of Finland's competitiveness were the two main objectives in this transport system work, and we saw strongly in our joint work that the goals support each other and do not compete with each other, including conflict.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u106	Mr President! Of course, Parliamentism must be emphasised, but nevertheless, for environmental reasons, I see the future as blue. In his speech, many took a position on how this is to be paid, and I think it is inevitable to say that almost all of us, almost together, are saying that the car tax must be abolished. Some would give up faster, others slower, but everyone sees the problem of car tax in the context of the renewal of the car fleet. If we look at the current tax model, then the loser is the low-income large families who live in a sparsely populated area and need that car. They're going to be paid for in the current model. The overall reform must be carried out in such a way that the burden of payment does not lie in the sparsely populated area for the large family who cannot afford a new car.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u107	Madam President! These new financing models have been discussed here, and in their alternative budget, the Finns presented a new financing model for new major transport projects. It was therefore a law obliging each pension insurance company to invest 5% of its funds in a transport fund. This money would be used to improve the main road and network by 2025. The idea behind this model is not to steal the assets of earnings-related pension funds, as the government would pay a reasonable interest rate to pension institutions. Capital investment would be allocated to the domestic infrastructure rather than to foreign investments. In fact, I would like to ask the Minister: have you taken a look at this model presented by the Finns and have you noticed what a great idea this is?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u108	Mr President! It has always been said that transport is important for people's housing and business, but it has never been as important as it is today. We really must thank the Minister of Transport, Mr Berner, for fighting like a lion during this parliamentary term for the reform of transport funding. Where, then, does that conservatism live? Let me be frank: it lives in the Treasury Department and is in charge there. [Department : Yes! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u109	Madam President! 12 years is a long time, especially in the development of technology, but, on the other hand, if we look at the Finnish fleet of vehicles in passenger transport, it varies from 9 to 14 years in average age by region and well reflects the fact that the solutions we are making today will still have an impact in the 2030s, and this will certainly bring its own challenge to this work. I would also ask that if the Minister were to open up a little of how you have planned on a practical level, that these interests, which have now been outlined in the report, should be coordinated in the future, namely the fight against climate change, the promotion of competitiveness and the safeguarding of the vitality and accessibility of the regions. Some of these are mutually supportive, but they certainly require creativity, and on the other hand we will inevitably come across what many here have pointed out that one solution does not apply everywhere, but we must also look at the regions as regions individually.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u110	Irade fru talman! Vi har taat mycket auri i kväll om vägar och jänvägar. Men det är också viktigt att poängtera sjöfartens viktiga roll för Finland och för vår export. Nästan 90 percent av utrikeshandeln går med fartyg i våra farleder, och det är viktigt att de ryms med också i prioriteringarna i de rai planerna. Jag vill också på hela svenska ricksdagsgruppens vägnar tacka minister Berner för hennes initialiv till de parliamentarbetsgrupperna och under kollegor som har variantt med i det arbetet. För ett litet land som Finland är det viktigt med långsiktighet och en öjligast stor enighet kring strategiska satsningar — som infrastruktur är. Det bull har Sverige visat med sina långsiktiga planer, och det ox kan vi ta efter och lära oss av. Därför än en gång tag till initialt för de rauh planerna.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u111	Madam President! I would like to thank this parliamentary working party for this work, which is indeed a plan going beyond the terms of the government. We must look at the needs of both industry and individual road users and, of course, as many speakers have pointed out, above all the climate aspect. Infra's funding certainly needs new openings, and there have been reproaches in the direction of the Ministry of Finance for the fact that it seems to be a brake force. There is no doubt that technology will be able to regenerate and heal several times in the 12-year period, so it is not necessarily in all our plans that we should lock ourselves in what is at present, but in some ways things will be able to change with the 12-year period. Recovering the debt is certainly something that will certainly be on the table of the next government, and there is a need for commitment. In that sense, let us hope that it is understood that infrastructure is, however, a guarantee of the vitality of this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u112	Madam President! I myself, as a group speaker, would have liked to have focused on this report debate, particularly during the round of group talks, but, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out to you here again that, in the SDP's climate policy paper, we support the target of 750,000 low-emission or zero-emission cars for 2030 – not our own proposal, but our support.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u113	Madam President! This report is a good basis for the future and I hope that parliamentary agreement will be reached on these matters in the future. The transport system plan shall consider all modes of transport as a whole. Finland is a country of long distances and must therefore take into account the different needs of urban areas, working areas, long-distance transport and sparsely populated areas. These needs are very different in different parts of Finland. Regular maintenance of roads, railways and waterways will always be cheaper than the basic improvement postponed until the end, and it is therefore very good that this government has invested in basic bus maintenance. That is the right line for the future too, and that is why the EUR 300 million additional per year in the future is a good thing. When we have talked about an hour's track, the main track and the east track, I personally hope that all of these will be exported in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u114	Mr President! I too would like to thank the Minister and this working group, which has done a good job. I will wonder if this overall model is too heavy for this forward. There is a huge amount of resources tied to this at different levels. But maybe that's what it takes. The most important thing is that parliamentary work is involved and that the will of Parliament is finally expressed. There is easily a problem with the fact that such a plan will become very rigid. For example, if a mine reaches a hundred kilometers [100 km] into the wilderness, transport connections, both road and rail, are needed quickly, and situations like this need to be prepared. Then, of course, these funding models need to be driven forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u115	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister and thank you to others for your good contributions. I would like to briefly remind us of the Nordic and even the global connection. An example of this is how the port manager of Mo i Rana in Norway vents a new environmentally friendly, efficient ship for the Vaasa-Uumaja connection. I myself have been involved in many projects through the Kvarken Council, where we have also been thinking with Norwegian and Swedish friends about how to build better connections through Sweden to the Atlantic coast. I therefore hope that our industry and the links between different regions and other Nordic countries, as well as other international flows of goods and value, will also be taken into account in the future; I am thinking about the North-East route, China's new Silk Road strategy and others. This will probably also help us in our activities with regard to the European Union and access to finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u116	Madam President! In that round of group talks, I thought I could see a very broad and good consensus on this report, and I am delighted to welcome it. This has been a long and challenging job for the Minister to draw, and on the other hand, it really looks to the future 12 years from now. It is therefore important that there is now a good, broad consensus in this Chamber that this issue should be taken forward together. Of course, there are challenges here, and I myself see that this setting up of a financial company is the biggest issue, and if there is a good consensus here, as in this Chamber, then there is scope for further progress. It has been suggested here that this Ministry of Finance's point of view as a duubio that it is the biggest plug. That is how I personally feel at the moment that we must continue to work together in this direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u117	Madam President! Indeed, as has been pointed out here in the debate, Finland must be identified in four different areas and account must be taken of the diversity of these regions. Just as important is ensuring the long-term financing of basic bus maintenance for each year from now on. One clear observation is that funding must increase and cannot be reduced, and it is therefore important to assess the possibilities for introducing alternative financing models, including in the form of these project companies. The starting point must be that the funding available for the development of the transport network must increase, as I said, so that the transport network does not act as a barrier to the development of society but, on the contrary, support what it was originally built for in this society.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u118	Mr President! Indeed, there is a correction debt recognised by everyone at the bottom, and it has now been taken over by this government, as it were, but at the same time it must also be said that there has been an investment debt for the projects. In view of the fact that transport is truly diverse and each of these forms requires its own efforts... If, for example, rail transport is taken, local transport needs a certain infrastructure, long-distance fast passenger transport needs its own perspective and space where to move, and at the same time as freight traffic is on the same tracks, it will be found that the rail network alone needs to be developed from many different perspectives, and there are major challenges here. The whole should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u119	Madam President! Thank you for giving me the floor as a group speaker. I would have liked to raise the issue of the main track. The share between Helsinki and Tampere is, after all, the busiest railway section in Finland, and it faces daily challenges. The capacity is far too small for that. However, rail traffic between the capital region and Ostrobothnia, Central Finland and Satakunta passes through Tampere on the main track, and a large part of all Finnish rail traffic passes to Helsinki through Tampere. As has been said, the capacity for this share is far too small, and I would have asked the Minister now: could you think that these plans and implementations could be made at some accelerated pace, because the plans take a long time and implementation takes a long time, but it is also possible to think about accelerated options? I can also tell you from my own almost daily experience that improvements are really necessary in the meantime.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u120	Mr President! Just as Mr Tanus said in his speech earlier, the main line is by far the most widely operated line, and this initial line in particular needs to be put in place to ensure that the connections to Pori, Jyväskylä and also to the north are also working. I think that we should now forget about this nonsense about the Arctic and the Tallinn tunnels and focus on Finnish traffic. But as far as emissions are concerned, that goal of 700,000 electric cars by 2030 is over-optimistic. And really, do you have enough cobalt and lithium resources? Is it ethically correct for children to dig it in the Congo? And where did you forget about biodiesel, where did you forget about biogas that can be produced in Finland? Somehow this debate has gone off the wrong track in that sense. Above all, the abolition of taxation on the purchase of a car can affect the age of the car fleet, and this should also be reflected in the next government programme, hopefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u121	I will give five more replies, and then we will give the Minister a reply and then we will see what the situation is.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u122	Madam President! The purpose of this debate is to reflect on a long-term plan and, at least on purpose, I will refrain from commenting on any individual project. All I can say is that there are important projects all over the country, from the point of view of people, from the point of view of industry, from the point of view of entrepreneurship and business, but perhaps it is worth calming down before the elections, so that we do not go and demand everything for ourselves. There are other needs: the main track is necessary, the Turku hour train, the eastern tracks and everything, and not forget the rubber cycle traffic and everything. We're gonna have to hold on to this, and we're gonna have to take care of this parliamentaryly. I think it is a great victory that there is a reference here to the parliamentary steering group, which will also take action after the elections, and then assess the needs of the whole country at one time and make a long-term plan.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u123	Madam President! It is easy to continue with the valuable speech by Mr Eestilä — perhaps my last speech on this subject. Finally, I would like to stress that in this 12-year period of work on the transport system, it is extremely important to have the objective, and also the act, of ensuring that the network is taken care of throughout the country, not by making a bridge drum policy and already calling on which region to which projects are being implemented. In order to compare transport projects, joint evaluation tools must be developed, and when prioritising new projects, a broader impact assessment must be made — absolutely at the heart of this work. Then, in the case of projects, particular attention must be paid to the impact on business, employment, transport volumes and, of course, regional development. I appreciate the work that has been done in this House, but I dare say that, as I am sure many others will say in this Chamber, this report before us is rather vague. In the end, everything will be resolved in terms of how the parties respect the plan and the parliamentary work and what is the right balance between the government programme and this plan for the transport system.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u124	Mr President! Yes, by far the most important thing is that we look first at the needs of the business world, and then it serves people at the same time. There is absolutely no reason to go to individual projects in this context, but I would like to take an example from Vaajakoski, where there are four roads: the Four Road, the Ysitie, the 13 Road and the 23 Road, one of which is the European Road. It has a bottleneck where you get stuck in traffic every week. There's heavy traffic, there's light traffic, there's local traffic, everyone's standing. It is a huge cost to the economy when expensive equipment stands still or progresses slowly, men drive the car and hours and driving times pass and other things like this. We have to take these points seriously and get rid of our road network. There really is no place in other parts of Finland like Vaajakoski when there are four highways in the same place.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u125	Madam President! In my speech, I would like to raise the importance of that railways for Finland. As has been heard here, business is an important indicator of how they exist, i.e. the development of rail transport in Finland. Indeed, in Finland, this Helsinki-Tampere interval is the first refurbishable congested space, and it helps transport to the east as well as to the west when the bottleneck can be repaired — it brings the needs of the business community and thus the needs of passengers. Of course there will be the eastern tracks and these Turku tracks immediately afterwards. Another important point in this report is, in my view, that attention should be paid to fuel solutions and not necessarily to one, but to biodiesel and biogas, as Mr Alatalo said, among other things. After all, it should be able to place emphasis on and develop domestic energy, and I believe that developing this distribution obligation is an important solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u126	Then there is the last speech, Mr Jalonen, and then there is the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u127	Mr President! One thing that has not yet been said is the other side of the Committee on Transport and Communications, which is the communication side. The 5G network is rapidly developing, and the reduction in traffic is one thing, which in itself is positive if it is done through teleworking, that is to say, these sides of communication must also be taken into account. In the meantime, I would point out from the Tallinn tunnel and other larger projects that they are not going to fit into the budget and that they are not just going to be built from the budget. The correction debt is the first, and then we must openly develop this whole, which is precisely from communication to different modes of transport, the development of public transport by means of the MaaS, and so on and so forth. We are in the transport sector with such a change that we do not necessarily know today what the news is about tomorrow. The whole — I would stress that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u128	And this part of the debate will be closed by Minister Berner, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u129	Madam Speaker! I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups for this joint work that we have done in the parliamentary working group in a good spirit, in confidence and with a view to the future. The 12-year transport system plan is based on legislation and will also become a binding tool. I also hope that all the parliamentary groups will continue to engage in parliamentary development of this process. As we move this forward, I also hope that we will rely as much on the information as possible. We have 12 areas and directions in Finland. Everyone has their own needs — Northern and Western Finland, Eastern Finland, Southern Finland. We also have four different modes of transport: we have tracks, we have roads, we have water and sea transport, we have air transport. They must also cooperate more and more, integrate with each other, feed each other traffic. All the data and information associated with it, technological progress and also how we control traffic and how we manage traffic flow and priorities have also become a major factor in transport. During this period, we have made considerable efforts to create these conditions. We have invested in the fact that our traffic management will be first-class, new and integrated and that it will ensure that our four modes of transport work even more together. At the same time, we have extensively reformed our legislation. In fact, in all possible large entities, we are prepared for technological change. We are also prepared to be able to create better productivity in Finland, but also better connections. What we still need is the direction of climate change and also the way in which we resolve infrastructure financing on a sustainable basis. These things are not mutually exclusive, but they support each other, but they in themselves require that we make value choices between them, choices about how people move in a sustainable way, how we take care of the costs of business and logistics, and at the same time how we create predictability. We have a huge amount of tools created this season, and now it is actually time for the next period to be implemented. This also means that we must openly look at all the openings that come in order to promote transport funding. We have in itself been able to find a common sense of will with regard to major rail projects. We share the view of the project companies, and we are able to move forward on that point. We also have a common will in terms of repair debt and raising the level of basic bus maintenance. Here I hope that all the parliamentary groups will stick to their own commitments, and I hope that even this period after the elections we will be able to raise the level of basic access to what it has promised. Now, at the beginning of the year, we have 100 million available, and another 200 million will be needed for this year. Then the question is how do we solve our investment debt — how do we ensure that the EUR 35 to 56 billion that we estimate to have investment debt in Finland is financed? It will not be possible without new funding models, and then we will not just talk about how employment pension companies, the private sector or the EU will participate, because many of these are not eligible for this type of funding, but we will talk about the need for new circular lines, we will need bypasses, we will need new connections, we will need tracks that need electrification and speed up, and we need a solution to finance these projects. This requires a reform of taxation, and it also requires an open debate on whether we can move from the taxation of ownership to the payment of expenditure. These are choices that you do not want to close now. It is worth looking at how to find something in these areas that at the same time supports our climate objectives and is also directly linked to the financing of the infrastructure. Here you have all the conditions in your hands, and I believe that this parliamentary working party — the work that we have done there, this final report and the report now in your hands — will give no cause for you to be able to continue and look forward to good solutions in the next period, and I trust that this work will go further than that. Thank you again for this cooperation. Thank you also for this period, and I hope that we can move forward along this path. — And with regard to the 5G, Mr Jalonen, we are well on the way, and the digital infrastructure strategy is already in place. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u130	Now let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u131	Mr President! Indeed, the main objectives of the transport system plan are the promotion of Finland’s competitiveness, the fight against climate change and the accessibility and vitality of the regions. The promotion of exports and economic growth rely on an effective transport system and, indeed, transport solutions play a key role in this. But even a single person cannot be forgotten. This is very important in view of the choice of place of work and place of residence, for which everyone has their own right, and now it is required that work be done further away. This transport system plan for the years 20 to 31 will be concluded next year, that is, in 20 years, and it is important that the preparatory work is continued, and I really hope, as I said in that debate, that it will not become such a cattail, but that we really look at the traffic volumes and the criteria — I referred, among other things, to Third — and then, on the other hand, to the impact of economic policy on what you are elected. Similarly, of course, when we talk about lines – for example, the new hour train on the main track, which is really big – it is precisely the question of what impact they have on Finland as a whole. Indeed, after a prolonged increase in the debt to repair, there has been a situation in which, by increasing funding, thanks to the government, there is a situation in which the debt to repair is not growing much, but it will start to grow again if there is no more money. This can be achieved through budget funding, but then these new investments really must be financed otherwise, and then we must also consider whether we are prepared to pay, for example, tolls, and then there is also a rural road with no tolls, as is the case in France and Germany and elsewhere in Central Europe. One of the major concerns is the average age of the Finnish car fleet, which is high, and the abolition of the tax on the purchase of a car can affect the car fleet and thus reduce emissions. France was already rioting against the increase in the diesel tax. Back in the day, diesel was still considered an ecological fuel, but now, according to experts, it is a poison. In Finland, on the other hand, the general public wishes to see the diesel tax abolished. It is true that the power tax has driven its way to the end. The cost of driving is already high, public transport is not everywhere, and people need to get to work even from the oppressors. The scrapping charge may have been directed at those better - income ones in the sense that many people cannot afford to buy a new car. If a low-income person also received a scrapping charge for the purchase of a used car, then emissions could actually be reduced if desired. Indeed, when I talk about electric cars and hybrid cars, so far, those with little means have limited access to them. Of course, there may be a lot of progress in this ten years, and electric and hybrid cars will also be depreciated, but you can ask whether there should be some purchase aid or a tax carrot or something. Indeed, domestic biogas is counted as zero-emission greenhouse effect, and it would indeed be a good option when we talk about these electric cars. Biowaste is processed into methane, and the amount of gas produced in Finland is already nearly 50,000 cars. Although biogas refuelling sites are not yet comprehensively available, it must be remembered that almost all passenger cars travelling by gas in Finland are biofuel hybrids, i.e. they also have a gas tank. This allows a gas driver to make his trip to Lapland with his own car. The use of biogas creates jobs and improves Finland’s fuel self-sufficiency. The objective of achieving climate objectives is also to improve the road network. Of course, there must be goods on the railways, but the tracks do not go everywhere, and it is true that the lion's part of the freight traffic also runs on rubber wheels, and it must be remembered. Indeed, we need a state-majority bus company to get market-based money for these investments, and we need to change our attitude so that we are prepared to pay for the use of roads as well. Otherwise, we will remain a developing country compared to Central Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u132	Mr President! The Government's report on the preparation of the national transport system plan is therefore under discussion. As Mr Ronkainen has already said in his group statement, it is essential to emphasise the need for both business and people to move around in the planning of transport. Transport must be both smooth and safe and preferably affordable. In spite of the correction debt that has been better managed during the electoral period, many transport routes are still in such poor condition today that traffic is too often bogged down and there are far too many near-miss situations in case of bypass. The worst places of danger are known in many respects, and some plans are ready, but despite everything, there is no budget for basic improvements. It is a major damage because slow and weak transport connections increase the costs of industry and industry and thus reduce their competitiveness on the international market. The few settlements and long distances in our country make the situation even more difficult. Mr President! There is a need for long-term, systematic and decisive development of the fairway network. In the long term, it will pay itself back as a result of an increase in the employment rate and as increased tax revenues. It is also worth seriously considering whether pension companies could invest part of the wealth they manage in a productive and secure way by lending it to the investments required by the fairway network at a reasonable rate, as previously suggested by the Finns of Finland. Mr President! In any case, the overall assessment is positive that transport policy will be clearly steered in the longer term, even though there seems to be no consensus between the parties on the directions and means of development. The three parliamentary periods, i.e. 12 years, are already a relatively long period of time, especially in political decision-making, although the development of transport routes should aim to anticipate and, at least as far as possible, understand longer periods and changes occurring during these periods. Of course, there should also be flexibility in the plans if circumstances change. Mr President! Driving is too expensive in Finland. Both new vehicles and fuel are priced, while old cars driven by many Finns are not so much. At least it will not be cheaper to drive if the internal combustion engine cars are replaced by electric cars at speeds, as has been said in the public domain. It should also be noted that the production of electric cars’ batteries is very consuming for the environment and natural resources and, for example, it is not possible to provide large-scale electric cars with charging capacity without new nuclear power stations. Even though electricity produced in nuclear power plants ultimately comes from plugs to the consumer, it does not happen quickly and it is not free — especially if the order for the nuclear power plant is made from Areva. It would be interesting to hear, for example, how the Greens view the further construction of nuclear power. The need for this is inevitable if electric car mania is given power in Finland, as most political decision-makers now seem to think, regardless of whether citizens can afford electric cars or even increased electricity bills. Mr President! In addition to driving, there is a need to invest significantly in the network. Not all citizens can afford or even need a car, and faster train connections will significantly increase labour mobility and improve the employment rate. There is also a need to develop transversal East-West connections, for example between Pori-Parkano-Haapamäki and beyond, in order to bring export industry products to ports cost-effectively. Mr President! However, special attention must be paid to the functioning of the main railway line serving a large part of Finland, including by building additional tracks. The current capacity on both the main track and the rest of the network has proved insufficient, which has contributed to making VR’s difficulties worse and further increasing the number of train delays, especially in winter. Problems are reflected across the rail network when connecting trains have to wait for passengers. Mr President! Finally, I will throw the ball to the Board of Directors of VR that:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u133	Madam President! One of the reasons why we both have budget funding for basic infrastructure management and budget funding for development projects is, of course, that our state's economic situation has not been good enough to allow us to invest the same amount in infrastructure relative to the national economy as Sweden. It is understandable when the same money competes with social and health care and with many other important budgetary expenditures. These Finnish-Swedish country matches are always of interest, or at least in the past, and now that you look at taxation and investment in transport infrastructure, there are quite interesting tables online. Here is a table for 2016, which states that Finland taxes transport by EUR 8 billion. The corresponding figure for Sweden is 9.6 billion. If we relate this to the national economy, Finland will tax transport almost twice as much as Sweden. In my view, this is a problem in the sense that when the wheels should be kept rolling and the economic wheels above all keep rolling, the more expensive the transport is and the more expensive it is to move, the more the national economy is, in a way, losing its productivity. This is a difficult situation and we will not be able to move forward through the budget book. When Sweden invests about 50 per cent of its taxable income in basic bus maintenance, roads and railways, this figure is 20 per cent for Finland. But that is explained by the fact that the Swedish economy is doing better. There the current account accounts for between 6% and 8% of GDP. For us it was negative for a long time throughout this 21st century. Now it's positive. In the final analysis, however, these transport projects always face the viability of the labour market, the withdrawal of exports and the amount of money that comes into this country through exports. If we do not have the money, then we will not be able to develop these infrastructure projects as we should. This is therefore the kind of entity that needs to be viewed. The more people can work in Finland, the better the roads, railways and waterways we have.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u134	Madam President! The objectives of the development of the transport system are listed in section 2 of the report, and if I had written them myself, I would have put them in a different way. It is stated here that ‘the general social objectives are the promotion of Finland’s competitiveness, the fight against climate change, and the vitality andavailability My order would be that the first is the promotion of Finland's competitiveness, i.e. the starting point and objective of industrial policy, the second is the vitality of the regions, the third is accessibility, the fourth is security and the fifth is climate policy. Why? I believe that we are living, and in the future, with a strong industrial policy and an export-driven economy, and one of the key conditions for that is that transport routes, both roads and railways and water and air transport, are in good shape and that the associated maintenance needs are constantly being met. Secondly, the vitality of the regions in this country is extremely important. We have people living in the whole country — although those gaps have recently come because of bad regional policy, but we still have, in principle, the whole country inhabited — and equality, justice and fairness are also fair that everyone has access to public access. Accessibility is extremely important. I used that point in Vaajakoski as an example, where Mr Hakkarainen and I often stand when trucks and cars and buses are standing or creeping very slowly. There are hugely expensive equipment inefficient use. And as an example now — although this plan should not in itself go to individual roads — the European Road E75, the Four Road, from Lussia to Vaajakoski and further north of Jyväskylä, is such a bottleneck that there is huge traffic and it creeps very slowly. Yes, a road that is a European road, in fact, according to EU decisions, should be raised to 120 in the summer and 100 in the winter. Then it would be reasonable. In other words, accessibility is extremely important and it is also a very important issue for the national economy. Fourthly, I do want to raise safety. For example, we have a huge number of level crossings. We have various other intersections and narrow points in the main road network, where safety is always very weak. On a daily basis, we hear traffic reports on the radio saying that ‘the road is closed because of heavy goods vehicles’. The constant fall of such expensive equipment and loads on the roads tells us that there are really serious deficiencies in the road, and these need to be taken seriously. Then there is the climate policy, which I will leave last on the list because Finland's climate policy is already very cheap: Given the long distances, the cold climate, the low population density, we cannot demand the kind of effort that the European Union and the government are committed to. They will be extremely expensive and will fight against all those priorities I have mentioned above. I am not opposed to climate policy in itself, and in particular to the fact that it is carried out in such a way that Finnish industry and Neste Oil and others benefit from it, but it must not prescribe policy lines and timetables. Mr President! In response, I said about this rather rigid model of transport planning that has been written here. There are certain reasons for this, but we have to think about it if we make a fine plan with a very heavy hand and then we do not have the funds to implement it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u135	Madam President! I wanted to take the floor again — although many good speeches have been made here — to raise the situation on Route 3 in Pirkanmaa. Someone's thinking why I'm talking about this. It is a project that has really been waiting very long for repair, and the road section, which is a plug on the way north, on its way to Ostrobothnia and in Sweden's direction as well. There is a lot of heavy traffic and I am bringing not only dangerous situations but also traffic accidents and, unfortunately, accidents involving more lives every year. When we looked at this repair project for Highway 3, it has been on the wish list for Hämeenkyro since the 1960s — believe it or not — and in its present form since the early 1990s, but it has always remained under the line, as it were, waiting for the next season and again for the next season. Thinking about road safety, heavy traffic and thinking about connections to Ostrobothnia and right up to Sweden, it would certainly be time for a number of reasons to get this right quickly. Then, in terms of air connections, I would like to emphasise it, as I said in my speech, that there has been a strong investment in Helsinki Airport and it is, of course, great that we have a representative airport and that it is still being put into better shape, but other airports should be developed. Here I would like to raise our Pirkanmaa Pirkkala airport in the sense that Tampere and Pirkanmaa are a highly developing area with a lot of international entrepreneurship and also international connections on the educational side and the need for air connections from Pirkkala as well. There would be a demand for it if we could just get the airport in order that international and larger aircraft could take advantage of it. After all, its use has been limited in a number of ways, and we can see that we have invested in Helsinki Airport and Pirkkala has suffered from it. As a health professional, I also think that if there is an exceptional situation at Helsinki Airport — although safety is certainly well taken care of there — it would be very important for us to have an airport that is quite close enough to meet international capacity in the area, which is also good for both rail and bus connections, if such an exceptional situation were to come and need to be used instead of Helsinki Airport. Then, to that main track, to the train connections Tampere-Helsinki: As Mr Savio said, unfortunately many people get hit by rubber rings, the wheel of a car when there are no seats or can't be trusted that the trains are on schedule. So we really hope in Pirkanmaa and more widely in Finland that this route will be brought into much better shape with a fast schedule.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u136	Mr President, värderade talman! There have been a lot of good speeches here about the Government's report on the preparation of the national transport system plan. I would like to remind you a little more about this Nordic and global dimension. Among other things, Mr Tanus spoke very well about connections with Sweden, and here I already showed an example in the Norwegian newspaper of how the port manager of Mo i Rana is venting this new efficient and environmentally friendly ship between Vaasa and Umeå. Let it be one example of these links towards Norway. I myself have been involved, inter alia, through the Government of the Kvarken Council in the Interreg project E12 Atlantica Transport, in which we aim to reduce border barriers to the east-west corridor and to develop cooperation between actors from Finland across the Atlantic coast along the E12 corridor to Norway. There is surprisingly much cooperation with Norwegian and Swedish friends there. I therefore hope that future transport system planning will take into account the links between industry and different regions of Finland to other Nordic countries as well as other global flows of goods and value, and will also actively mention the potential of the North-East Passage, China's new Silk Road strategy and so on. I also believe that when people are active in the direction of the EU and seek new forms and patterns of funding, this kind of strategic activity will be rewarded.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u137	Mr President! Transport policy must be long-term, as is now planned and planned. The smoothing of transport for all types of transport is necessary from the point of view of business, employment and entrepreneurship, and although digitalisation is progressing in the future, for example by enabling new forms of work and the use of new forms of work, it is still at least as important to travel and transport in the future as it is today. Mr President! Long-term planning is particularly needed for future very large bus projects, of which these rail projects have also been mentioned several times here. The importance of high-speed rail connections will be emphasised in the coming years and decades, and it is very important that rail projects are assessed, planned and put in order in a very long-term and as one-sided manner as possible. In this context, I would particularly like to highlight the one-hour train project in the direction of Turku, towards Western Finland, which is a very central project for the future of Western Uusimaa, Southern Finland and Western Finland. This project must also be assessed in the same long-term perspective, as part of this transport package in our country, as part of the Nordic package, but I cannot fail to say — when reference has been made to these other rail projects — that the Turku-hour train project differs from these other projects in the sense that it has been planned for so long. The first plans are already from the 1930s, the 70s were already a little further in the planning process, and now it has been in regional planning and licensing. The City of Espoo has already made its own plans in the beginning. Compared to these other major rail projects, the Turku hour train differs in such a way that it could be started already this year to the extent that this early Espoo rail link would be built as part of the Turku hour train project. The planning and construction of this project, as I have already said, is part of the overall transport system in Finland, but I would like to point out here that, for the urban railway in Espoo, this project should be started as quickly as possible, because this section of the urban railway will already serve a wide area in itself, when this project will then be implemented as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u138	Madam President! There's been some excellent business talk here, but I'll keep it up. Among other things, Eestilä mentioned how Sweden will tax and Finland alongside it and how much Sweden will restore tax money to the roads. This is a competitiveness issue in the sense that if we invest money in that road, it will come back. If we now take cities from the eastern border, there are industrial plants that bring 30 truckloads to the port, for example, but the whole city — including Kuhmo — needs 3 truckloads as returning cargoes. Which means you're gonna have to drive a lot of empty gear there. If we want to keep the whole country inhabited, so that there are jobs there too, the support system needs to be slightly changed, so that competitiveness is also maintained on that eastern border and in Northern Finland — and indeed in Central Finland, even though the situation is not so bad. And then there's the lower-level road network: At the moment, Finland is living again from wood. If that is where we want to invest, and it is where we get it, then it is worth investing in the road network, too, because the 10-minute delay in one performance, if you think of the country as a whole, is many per cent out of competitiveness. If society invests in it, it is guaranteed to come to the tax fund, and then there is something to be shared after the election promises, but this is the first, a and o to get the economy in order. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u139	Mr Jalonen, chairman of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u140	Mr President! It was precisely in the role of chairman of the committee that I wanted to give this last speech, apparently. I dare pull together the debate to the extent that all parties seem to have a common picture of the needs of our transport network and its impact on the various functions of society. At the same time, many speeches were raised and the fact that we are already in the midst of a major change and change in transport, and this will only continue. This change brings great challenges, new challenges, things that are not even known today. And on the basis of meeting these challenges, fortunately, there will be more long-term parliamentary cooperation and planning in the future. This change must also include such enabling thinking that has been practiced throughout my career and is said to have been done before in the Committee on Transport and Communications, i.e. all decisions will be written in an enabling form so that things that are not yet known but are here tomorrow will be able to develop and realise and improve society, Finland's competitiveness and vitality. On this basis, I hope that all parties, despite the elections and indeed with the emphasis, will have a thinking model that does not say no to things, but is looking for solutions and development options and opportunities for how society develops. I trust that this good spirit, which we have in committee, is the will of the whole Parliament and that through parliamentaryism there will be a long-term approach to Finnish transport and communication policy. — Thank you for this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u141	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 21/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u142	Mr President! Firstly, we must thank the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry for the speedy handling of this government's proposal. This is a question of providing liquidity loans to holdings with temporary financial difficulties, for example because of difficult weather conditions, but which still have the preconditions for continued economic viability. In one way, however, we are on the last beach when our own guarantees are insufficient and a state guarantee is needed. Such a guarantee would be granted for a loan of up to EUR 62500 and would then become a State guarantee of 80 %, or EUR 50000, for a period of five years. Of course, such measures have their own meaning, and one cannot but thank the government that such a proposal has been made. But, of course, these agricultural issues should be viewed through a slightly larger picture. In my view, a parliamentary working group or committee on agriculture should then be appointed from the outset in the next period, which would then reflect much more on agricultural issues. The current sitting Minister for Agriculture and Forestry is pretty much attached to the everyday life when these fund periods are usually seven years in the EU and then have to be negotiated, and when the first negotiations are concluded, then the next negotiations are already under way. If the government has still made such decisions in its government programme that undermine some of the interests of agriculture, the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry will then fight to restore those benefits. This is the kind of day-to-day business that takes the Minister’s time, and then there is no time to think about any wider change. That is why I really believe that it would be necessary to have parliamentary reflection, which, with the power of all parties, would go through these issues. Even here, the often positive attitude and understanding of the problems of agriculture would be realised through such a parliamentary committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u143	Madam President! The aim of the proposal is to improve the liquidity of agricultural holdings by granting state guarantees to liquidity loans granted by banks. The maximum amount of the loan covered by the guarantee would be EUR 62500. The aim is to target guarantees and the related State aid to agricultural enterprises which, after coping with temporary liquidity problems, are in a position to engage in continuous, profitable activities. I believe that this proposal is more than necessary. The only threat in this proposal is that I believe the banks themselves can decide what the interest rate on this loan is. It's totally different if the loan has interest on a mortgage or a consumer loan. There's a difference of about 3%. I hope that banks will use common sense to determine the interest rates on loans, even if they are operating on a business basis. It would probably still be timely to check and ask how to limit the greed of banks and the possibilities of using almost defenceless farmers in this new system. Can the bank define the purpose of the loan in question?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u144	Madam President! True Finns attach great importance to maintaining self-sufficient agricultural production and security of supply in Finland. At present, it is in serious danger, not only because of the past situation but also because of the prospects ahead. The EU's policy is unduly hitting Finland's agriculture, and we are rather helpless in that, because the decision-making powers have been given to Brussels bureaucrats, as is often said. This excellent proposal, which has been dealt with quickly by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, does not solve any permanent problems; it is a crisis response to this momentary situation, which is, in practice, to the situation in the spring ahead for farmers. The second issue that we have in Parliament is the tax relief on crop damage insurance, which is a representative of the tax division led by Kiviranta and will certainly come here quickly by him and we will get it right. But these are extremely small in relation to the overall emergency we have in this country. Today, the Government has presented a proposal to Parliament to increase the tax compensation reserve from EUR 13500 to EUR 25000. I'm sure it's also a healthy and good performance. However, we will continue to insist on the need for permanent arrangements, permanent legislation and a support system to ensure that Finnish agriculture continues to survive so that, here in the cold Nordic countries, we can provide our own food services for our own people. It is a safety issue to a very large extent, almost as important as fighter procurement, which is up to EUR 10 billion, but here we are playing with a few dozen or hundreds of thousands. That's a serious question. It is good that this is now moving forward. However, here too, in the committee's report, the committee notes a number of problems, for example, regarding the inadequacy of this, but this model obviously does not go any further. That is good, but it is indeed expected of the next government to take proper measures when this government has gone in such a bad way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u145	Mr President! By way of exception, I was thinking of reading directly the government proposal. In the general explanatory memorandum, the first paragraph of the introduction sums up the background to this law very well: ‘In recent years, farmers have experiencedunexpected market failures which have led to a fall in agricultural producer prices. At the same time, exceptional weather conditions in 2017 and 2018 have further increased the financial distress of farmers. The short-term liquidity of agricultural holdings has deteriorated and farms face difficulties in coping with the running costs and debt repayments caused by normal production activities.’ Here, in five lines, the current economic situation in agriculture has been said very well and aptly, sadly illustratively written. This background reflects the importance of this bill as a part of the crisis package to ensure the continuity of Finnish food production, to safeguard profitable agricultural production. But just as Mr Kiviranta mentioned earlier, this is only emergency aid. A longer-term solution must be found to the profitability of agriculture. A longer perspective must be found to safeguard Finnish food production. We must make the distribution of income in the food chain fairer and fair rules of play and transparency throughout the food chain. For his part, liquidator Karhinen will share his views on how to achieve a balance in the food chain, how also primary producers, farmers, could obtain a fair producer price for the world's cleanest and safest food raw materials. This study by Karhinen and its results will surely be part of the forthcoming debate and solution to find that long-term vision and result. But some could be what Mr Kiviranta suggested earlier, a parliamentary working group that would review the current situation in Finnish food production, and together we would seek the means to find a long-term solution to ensure the profitability of agriculture and food production. At the moment, the market is on a really fast cycle. Agricultural policy is changing and changing, there are very many uncertainties with regard to agriculture, and while the development of agriculture and the investments it requires are binding on capital and the factors involved in these investments for ten years, it would be excellent if a parliamentary agreement were to be reached in the next parliamentary term on a long-term food policy line in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u146	Madam President! This state guarantee for liquidity loans for farms is an extremely good example of the fact that the construction of the crisis package launched in the autumn under the leadership of the Minister is based on quite a few individual issues. This is one of them, but as has already been said here, as many colleagues have said, this is only a small part and a small amount of help. However, the aim is to improve the liquidity of farms in a situation where changes in the operating environment have been exceptional for a long time — weather conditions for two years in a row and then increasing the cost of inputs all the time have brought financial burdens on them. I do question Mr Kankaanniemi's comment that it is the government's fault. There has been a great deal of work done in the government to combat these conditions and to find elements. But the fact is that this crisis package, which is being implemented here too, is not the solution for the future, but we really need to find a comprehensive political perspective, as Mr Viljanen has pointed out, on how to find the whole food chain in a situation of viability in which the much-invested farms will continue to be viable, even if there is no margin at all, in order to make repair investments, let alone any expansion. And now to this state guarantee loan: Firstly, there is now an extremely busy timetable. This must now be put in place in such a way that this loan is already an opportunity for this spring's inputs to be made available to farms, and in that respect this is also the negotiating situation between banks and the holding, in which way these funding will then be made. It would be desirable and a prerequisite for banks not to organise any current loans, but would actually be one that would actually provide liquidity to replace the payment difficulties of the spring. In addition, we must take into account what Mr Kankaanniemi has said here, that there were challenges, difficulties, too, in the committee's report. Of course, there are different forms of aid on the agricultural policy side, and the de minimis aid is precisely what comes under this guarantee form, and farmers will have to wonder whether it will receive the de minimis aid, which is a fixed amount in three years, i.e. whether it will be full of other aid or whether it will still be available and whether it will also be possible to take it from the de minimis point of view. So this is a big deal, too. This is not possible for all farms today, and the committee's report also took account of the fact that such a presumption cannot be maintained that this is an opportunity for all farms to apply for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u147	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 15/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-31-ps-151.u148	Madam President! The proposal proposes to amend the Criminal Code so that taxation on the basis of the calculation of the amount of the daily penalty is regulated by a Government decree rather than by the Criminal Code. I think this proposal is very good. The aim of the proposal is to prevent the random variation in the tax year on which the daily fine is based, which would otherwise result from changes in the tax procedure law and future tax practice. The intention is to adopt a Government decree later that the tax year on which the monthly income is calculated should be determined on an equal basis for all. According to the current legislation, the calculation of the amount of the daily fine is based on the revenue from the last tax paid. The reform of the Tax Procedure Act led to the end of taxation for natural persons at different times from 2018 onwards. In the light of the principle of equality, it must always be sought that the monthly income on the basis of daily allowances for all persons should be calculated on the basis of equally recent tax data. Madam President! Guidance on this proposal is needed every day, for example, in the daily work of the police and the Border Guard. They deal with customers on a daily basis, for example in traffic control. It requires the drafting of penalties in which it is necessary to know the actual gross and net income of the customer. The police quite often rely on the customer’s word about income when the customer claims that his income is something other than what the tax office informs the police. This, on the one hand, reduces complaints and, at the same time, reduces the famous bureaucracy. This proposed amendment will also facilitate the possible future use of real-time tax data to calculate the amount of the daily fine, as this would later be possible by amending the regulation instead of the legislative amendment. The aim of this proposal is to ensure equal treatment of fines so that administrative decisions relating to the timing of taxation do not arbitrarily affect the amount of the daily fine. For this reason too, I consider this proposal to be a motion in the right direction.
