ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-27-ps-39.u1	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 1/2019 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Presentation, by Mr Hoskonen, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-27-ps-39.u2	Madam President! The Government’s proposal to amend Article 8 of the Act on the improvement of housing conditions for special groups is in principle only a minor technical amendment. In the case of grants under the lowest aid category, the grant rate will be increased from 10% to 15%, and this money will be available for both new construction and renovation. This government proposal is included in Prime Minister Antti Rinte's government programme. The committee discussed this issue carefully at its meeting in consultation with four experts, and a written opinion was received at 5 a.m. The committee was unanimous in its decision. The committee considers the proposed increase from 10% to 15% justified. Student housing is typically small in size, so their construction costs are higher than average relative to the size of dwellings. In addition, the turnover of residents is significantly higher than in normal rental dwellings, leading to higher administrative and maintenance costs. The Committee notes that the investment grant has been found to be effective in promoting the production of affordable, high-quality housing for students and other special groups. In addition to student housing, there is also a growing need for youth housing. Support for the production of student and youth housing helps to facilitate the demand for rental housing in growth centres and thus has a positive impact on the price development of the rental market for the residents. The Committee welcomes the fact that investment aid can be granted not only for the construction of new buildings but also for the basic improvement of housing. At the same time, basic improvement projects can contribute, for example, to changing vacant office buildings to residential use and to improving the energy efficiency of buildings. The Committee stresses the need for particular attention to be paid to the use of investment grants in the future, while at the same time contributing to the achievement of the climate objectives of wood construction and other construction. The committee was unanimous in its report.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-27-ps-39.u3	Madam President! Just as Mr Hoskonen said earlier, the purpose of this bill is excellent: to increase the construction allowance so that more affordable student and youth housing would be built in Finland. It is very much to be welcomed that the government has in many ways decided to support the situation of young people and students in this way, also by facilitating their housing. This bill applies not only to housing, but also to education and employment, which are of particular importance to us in the centre. The reduction in student housing costs means that their livelihoods will improve. This will help focus on studies, obtain a degree and achieve a smooth working life. Mr President! We in the centre have suggested that student housing should be increased so that every other student would live in a student home by 2030. This bill also supports this objective. The bill has been estimated to reduce some of the government's housing allowance expenditure, as the rent of dwellings built with an investment grant is regulated by law. The ceiling facilitates the livelihood of young people and students. When talking about housing allowance as a whole, the continuous increase in housing costs has significantly increased the expenditure on housing allowance in our country. The housing support system needs to be reformed. It cannot be that housing support acts as a kind of rent-raising machine and a transfer of society’s money to wealthy investors — no, it must be a human being and his needs at the heart of it. It is important that housing allowance is now considered in detail and broadly at the start of this government's reform of social security. This was agreed upon in the Government Programme. Mr President! Today has been demonstrated for the climate. Things don't change except by acting. That is why the centre has suggested that we increase the volume of wood construction in our country. In fact, we were able to agree on a government program to double the construction of wood. In its report, the Committee on the Environment rightly states that there will be a need for particular attention to be paid to the use of investment grants, including by promoting wood construction.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-27-ps-39.u4	Madam President! This government proposal is based on the desire to increase the production of student and youth housing. It is very good because there is a great shortage of student housing in many localities. It is noteworthy that student housing is often very small and their construction costs are high and their administrative costs are also high, because the tenants often change there. That is why this government proposal to increase the subsidy from 10% to 15% is a good thing. I believe that this will lead to an increase in the production of student housing in many localities. It is also good that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection draws attention in its own report to the fact that, at the same time, it contributes to the development of wood construction and also to the achievement of climate objectives related to construction. I personally regard this government proposal, although it is very small-scale, as also an important step forward in ensuring that students, young people and their housing are taken care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-27-ps-39.u5	Madam President! I listened here to the chairman of the parliamentary group of the main government party, but now to this matter itself. — Improving housing conditions for special groups is an important measure. This is an increase in the investment grant and I very much welcome it. In the past, it has been done, among other things, to change the minimum size restrictions on dwellings and to give them greater flexibility in making the housing that young people want and need, and at the same time to make it affordable for them to be able to live as students. Accessibility claims have also been renewed and it has been stated that all apartments targeted at that age group, namely mainly young students, need not be accessible, but that it is sufficient for everyone to have accessible alternatives, and of course public spaces, stairs and others, are, of course, accessible, of course. But, Mr President, the need for us to need more student housing in the future, and certainly more affordable cell housing of this kind and so on, will increase with our urbanisation becoming an accelerating phenomenon. It is no longer an opinion; it is a fact that we have more and more sparsely populated rural areas and public transport is not working, and now, unfortunately, for example, the light car legislation that many young students expect is being postponed for at least a year to the future, perhaps completely — something that time ago comes. Many young people, by the way, expected to be able to go to a place of study without moving from 15 to 16 years of age before getting a valid driving licence, but now that the government has made its own decision, it is important that these opportunities for living are then increased in the regional centres and localities and in the vicinity of educational institutions, that studies in the whole country will continue to be possible in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-27-ps-39.u6	Madam President! There is therefore now a government proposal to increase the ceiling for grants under the lowest aid category from 10% to 15% in relation to the construction, acquisition and also the basic improvement of student and youth housing. The investment grant is an effective form of aid which promotes the production of affordable housing not only for students but also for special groups. There is a plus in the presentation, not only that the grant can also be obtained for the basic improvement of housing, but that when the change comes into force 1.11. it also applies to ongoing projects. We should continue to increase the production of affordable housing, especially in growth centres, which is something that we will all agree on in this Chamber. The cheaper rental housing production of students enables and supports the completion of studies within the target period and also enables more non-subsidised housing for the working population, among others. All in all, a very positive proposal, albeit marginally, but worthy and unanimously in good cooperation with the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. I would like to say to Mr Heinonen that, in a way, he addressed this issue in his closing statement, which does not directly relate to this government proposal 16 as such, that light-duty vehicle legislation will be dealt with in the Chamber next week, and I dare to say on behalf of the whole government that this transitional period of the year, the extension of this legislation so that we can move forward with it, is the target state of the government as a whole. In other words, as soon as possible cooperation will be sought to ensure that progress is made.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-27-ps-39.u7	Madam President! This bill is a good one, and it is very important that affordable housing production is promoted and promoted in Finland, especially in the case of young people and also special groups, about young people who need special support and, among other things, disabled students. It is very important that housing is accessible and is given the opportunity to live in one's own home and to take into account the fact that the student wishes to have his/her own peace and hopes to get to his/her own apartment to practice and try his/her own living alone and thus become independent. So it's a very important matter. I also welcome the fact that this change in office buildings has been raised. We have a lot of empty spaces in Finland, and it is important that they can be turned into apartments, because the housing shortage is still severe. I would raise the situation of the elderly, even if this proposal does not concern the elderly. It is important that we continue to maintain the discussion that when an elderly person spends years there in the home, housing would be unhindered and resources would be allocated to basic healing projects and everyone would then be able to spend their lives safely there in their home. That's what this is all about. Thank you to the government, a good bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-27-ps-39.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-27-ps-39.u9	Madam President! It is nice that the committee dealt with this important proposal so quickly. It may be that, in legal terms, this is of a technical nature, as has been said here, but in fact it is a major and significant improvement, otherwise there are more on the housing side of the government programme. That is why it is important that this step has now been taken and this is important, as has been well said here, precisely in order to promote more affordable housing for students and young people. I also think it was good that the committee had registered wood construction. That is also the agreed priority of the Government Programme at our disposal. After all, many of these improvements in the Government Programme are, in fact, based on the report of the Audit Committee for the last period. The guidelines that were then unanimously adopted by Parliament have been included in the Government Programme as such and, overall, the line in it will enable us to build more affordable housing production. There was an important line that the State Housing Fund, the VAR Fund, will continue to be an independent fund, and that is precisely the fund through which these affordable homes for people will be built. It's important. In this Government Programme, it is also possible to live at affordable prices for students and other people, for example. For example, there are records that start-up grants will be extended not only to the MAL municipalities of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area but also to other MAL regions, which means Tampere, Turku, Oulu, for example, where more of these affordable apartments will then be available. The elderly were also mentioned here. On the whole, I also attach great importance to these contributions from the special groups themselves, and there are also very wise records in this government programme that we want to promote, among other things, the social forms of housing for older people. All in all, I am delighted to welcome the Government's programme, and I hope and hurry that the government - hopefully as soon as possible - will bring these necessary changes to this House, because the quick grip of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has proved that we here very strongly, unitedly and rapidly want to push these good reforms forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-27-ps-39.u10	Madam President! There is a shortage of student housing as well as other affordable rental housing. Especially in the capital region and other growing urban areas, the cost of living and the inadequacy of housing make life difficult for people. For many, living takes far too much of the income. In the Government Programme, we stated that there was a desire to reduce the price of housing. I have already been looking forward to the completion of the new MAL agreement for the Helsinki Region starting in 2020. The previous MAL agreement expires at the end of this year. On the part of the municipalities, the plan was completed in the spring before the government negotiations. This government proposal is now the first concrete step in the good housing policy records of the Government Programme. In particular, the bill will improve the position of young people and students in the housing market, which is very important. Currently, the majority of young people between the ages of 18 and 29 living independently live on rent, and the capital region accounts for up to four fifths of the population. The committee has considered the proposed increase from 10% to 15% justified. I agree with that. Student housing is typically small in size, so their construction costs are higher than average relative to size, and therefore the support is particularly important. The committee has also welcomed the fact that investment aid can be granted not only for the renovation of new buildings but also for the basic improvement of housing, which is also a good project. At the same time, basic improvement projects can contribute to the transformation of vacant buildings, such as office buildings, into residential use, and this is also very sensible for the circular economy. In its opinions, inter alia, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities highlighted the possibility of using this lowest category of investment grants to increase the supply of housing for older people, such as senior houses. There is a need for them too, because pensioners, like students, have very low incomes. At the moment, there is a rather perverse situation. We constantly read about the high rents in housing and how investors take over the rental housing market, especially in the capital region. For this reason, we spend many times as much money on housing support as it would make sense. The production of affordable housing is the place where the money should be put. By putting this same money into the production of affordable housing, we could show that we really want affordable housing and not support the owners of housing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-27-ps-39.u11	Madam President! On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and European Democrats, I would like to express my thanks to the Government of Antti Rinte for bringing this proposal and also to the committee, under the chairmanship of Mr Hoskonen, for the swift handling of this matter. Helsinki, Turku, Jyväskylä, Seinäjoki are examples of localities that already became messages in mid-summer that there is a crying shortage of student housing. In July, it was known that only a few cell homes were available. Then, of course, students will have to look for accommodation elsewhere than in the actual student housing. The investment grant, which is now being increased in the case of student housing, has indeed proved to be effective in promoting the production of affordable housing for special groups — and here, in particular, for students. I was also a member of the Parliamentary Audit Committee myself last season, and that was when the housing report was actually made. I would also like to thank the government for the fact that the proposals we made in committee are indeed at least recorded in the government programme. It's great that this is the kind of small step we can get started this season. I would also like to say that it is positive that the committee raised the issue of wood construction in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-27-ps-39.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-27-ps-39.u13	Madam President! Representatives Aittakumpu and Lohikoski pay attention to the problem of the current housing allowance system. That is something I too thought to say. Of course, we all understand that the demand for and supply of housing has a great impact on the level of rent, but it would be a matter of closing its eyes to the facts — as Mr Viitanen said last season, I think — that housing aid would have no bearing on the level of rent. We pay more than EUR 2000 million per year for taxpayers' money, and income support also compensates for the housing costs of the low-income ones. Everyone can imagine a theoretical idea that housing allowance is not paid at all. Do you not believe, Mr Viitanen too, that this would affect the level of rent? Of course it would. We have very profitable housing companies, such as Kojamo — everyone can monitor the good business Kojamo is — and Sato. We have recently read in the newspapers how foreign housing or real estate investment companies buy large bundles of rental dwellings in Finland. Why are they buying? Well, because it's a good business. And as stated earlier here, taxpayers support this good business by paying more than EUR 2 billion in housing allowance per year. Of course, this housing allowance is for the benefit of people on low incomes, but in practice they are mainly transitory and housing allowance goes to fatten the wallets of these housing investors. Some of the housing allowance and also other compensation for Kela's housing expenses are paid directly to housing investors or owners of dwellings. This is where Mr Aittakumpu said that the government intends to intervene in the context of the overall reform of social security. That is what I hope and, in any case, when tenants need housing and housing owners need tenants, I am firmly convinced that even a smaller amount of housing allowance would help low-income people to overcome their housing costs. There was also talk of climate, and I would like to express my joy at the fact that thousands of young people in front of Parliament House today are demanding climate action from the government. So do we at the assembly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-27-ps-39.u14	Mr Viitanen's name was mentioned on two occasions. One-minute response, Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-27-ps-39.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Among other things, the report by the Committee on Audit, which Mrs Zyskowicz has been unanimous in approving, also discusses this issue of housing allowance, and it states the fact that, however, the amount of housing subsidies are being reduced to the price of housing, is contradictory research results. I think it is a fact which can be said out loud when it is the case, and I have also referred to this last period, and I recall, President, that the reference was made at the time when once again the assembly had the desire to continue with the policy of cutting the allowance for housing and the desire to cut all possible social security, and I have never accepted that such criteria should be used in the sense that it can then be used as a backrest to cut the basic security of small people. I think it is important that the Government Programme now reads, as it otherwise states in the report of the Audit Committee, that we now look at the reform of housing allowance and see it in the context of the whole reform of social security. Let's not look at it in this housing policy section.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-27-ps-39.u16	Now I'm gonna ask you: The chairman of the committee, Mr Hoskonen, and Mr Koponen, have taken the floor. Do you like the place for three minutes or are there longer speeches? In a few minutes, we'll have to close the session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-27-ps-39.u17	Madam President! Two things. First of all, thank you for your good feedback on behalf of the committee. Indeed, the report was dealt with quickly. We certainly did not want to be a brake, but we wanted such a good project to go ahead and help young people and special groups to get housing as quickly as possible. The second point is the construction of wood. The committee discussed it, and there have been many other discussions in the committee in order to achieve much, much better pace than is currently the case in Finland. We are still far behind Sweden. I believe and hope that when the next budget for next year comes to this house at the beginning of October, the government groups — and of course the support of the opposition is also desirable — will be able to make real progress in the construction of wood, even now in the course of next year's budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-27-ps-39.u18	Madam President! If the number of dwellings is increased in accordance with the Government's proposal, it should also be noted that this does not automatically reduce the government's housing allowance expenditure, at least for Helsinki, if rental prices are not reduced at the same time. The average price of the apartments of the Helsinki Student Housing Foundation (Hoas) is EUR 555, and although this is less than for a student living in a single unit at market prices, both students will receive the same maximum housing allowance, or EUR 412. The prices of student housing rentals should therefore be even lower than those of market-based dwellings in Helsinki, when government housing support expenditure would be reduced. - Thank you.
