ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the Minister to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u2	The first question is the Socialist Group in Parliament, Mr Gustafsson, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u3	Mr President! In the last few days, care for the elderly has talked a lot about people. It's touched a lot of people, hurt them, hurt them. There's been a legitimate response. Elderly people need good and human care, whether they are in home care or in service homes. The glaring mishaps that have now emerged cannot and must not be accepted, either from the public or from the private side. Many care facilities work well, and nurses deserve commendation, but many large companies, in their greed, have been guilty of hiring too few workers, of direct fraud, of human dignity being violated. This cannot continue. Mr Prime Minister, the day before yesterday, at the event of political journalists, you were wondering whether a limited company is in any way the right form for services for the elderly. Prime Minister, could you open up what you really meant?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u4	Madam President! In my reply, I wondered whether it was a limited liability company, a public operator, a cooperative, always in such a situation, when it comes to the valuable, high-quality care of the elderly, values must be the guiding factor in decision-making number one, and only next can there be an economic result. This should be self-evident for all operators in the sector, both businesses and public operators. Every Finnish elderly person deserves valuable and high-quality care, and it must be written there in the values of the community.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u5	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u6	Yes, Prime Minister, now is the moment of truth at hand. For four years now, you have been driving a market war that will open up an additional market of nearly 6 billion dollars for faceless, multinational social waste of big money. So this model of yours will lead to an increasing number of elderly people being treated on market terms. [Right : Quite the opposite!]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u9	Madam President! That is definitely the latter, i.e. the provision of decent services to every elderly person in Finland. That's why we're doing this social security reform so we can get order in this business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u14	Mr President! In the Producers Act, the committee has already decided to raise certain issues. The Act on Producers states in general terms that it is not possible, however, to increase the resources used for supervision in line with the increase in the number of private services. In addition, this detailed explanatory statement states that the service provider would be obliged to monitor the quality and regularity of its operations, as well as the safety of customers and patients, but it would be precisely the producer's own responsibility — the producer's own responsibility. So let me ask you once again: is it reasonable to do all this on market terms? In the same breath: Sote is also a big savings project. The Government intends to save more than EUR 1 billion from the services of care for the elderly alone. I think this is going the wrong way. I would like to ask Minister Saarikko: if tomorrow morning the committee takes on this condition of care for the elderly as a matter of its own,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u15	Mr President! We have had a debate on this with the chairman of the committee, and I understand your wish — and your well-founded wish — that the committee is also interested in hearing the assessment of the status of elderly services. I have said to the chairman of the committee that, as you wish, you will be happy to receive the same information, for example, from the supervisory authority or the ministry's preparation for office, both in relation to the current situation in relation to these shortcomings and, on the one hand, from the preparation of the legislation which has already begun in the Ministry on the overall update of the services for the elderly. The way in which the law is formed, what the future government wants to emphasise about the euro too, is certainly a question of the level of government negotiations. But, as we said in one of the interim debates here, I will certainly make all this information available to all the parliamentary parties so that we can also prepare to tell the citizens in the elections what sort of matters we are all prepared to take special care of in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u16	Madam President! Everyone may wonder what it will be like if the only hands that touch during the day are busy or if the nightdress is not changed before half a day, or what the quality of life is like if day after day evening activities start hours before going to bed if food always has to be eaten in a hurry and cold, not to mention the outdoor activities that many old people are already dreaming of. Housing at home with services is a process that needs to support the citizen’s confidence in his/her own survival and to maintain a sense of basic security. At the moment, we decision-makers across Finland receive a lot of messages about how we have a lot of elderly people at home who no longer feel safe. I ask you, Minister, when will we change the fact that we have to get so bad with the RAVA points before we get help?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u17	Mr President! I share the situation picture of the representative in that the examples you mentioned, such as fresh air or decent food, are the cornerstones of human dignity in good care. And, of course, we are in a bad situation if any of the operators or any of its nursing homes need to be individually agreed and reminded of this. However, as far as legislation is concerned, I believe that the articles of the law adopted by Parliament during the last parliamentary term and, on the other hand, the quality recommendations which have already been updated on several occasions, that is to say, the framework conditions on which these services are provided by the private and public sectors, do not allow any gap in the way you describe human dignity. But, of course, it is precisely for this reason that the reality has not been in line with the legislator's will for this house that we will be making further clarifications to the Act on services for the elderly by updating it, but also bearing in mind that the good cause of elderly people in Finland is prevention, maintenance of functional capacity,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u18	This is also the subject of the Left Alliance. Congressman Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u19	Mr President! The serious neglect of the elderly care provider, which has shocked the public, is not an isolated case. It appears that some companies have deliberately and deliberately failed to comply with their regulations and agreements, thereby making an unjust profit. You, Prime Minister. Sipilä, you said earlier that the case of Esperi Care shows that control works in Finnish society. That is certainly not the case. Control has failed, and we need to correct it. When serious negligence has taken place, we must ask who now bears the responsibility. What is the responsibility of management if serious omissions are the result of commands from above, even conscious practices? Mr President! So I'm asking the government: What is the responsibility of the owners of companies that have failed? Is the C.I.P.D. investigating the activities of apparently conscious care giants and the responsibility of owners and management?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u20	Mr President! The police administration coordinates police action on this issue of elderly services and has produced a situation picture based on information from police departments. We are conducting investigations on the basis of reports of offences made by the supervisory authorities and also on the basis of reports of offences made by the public, and the police, even when there are clear indications that the threshold for pre-trial investigations is being exceeded, will initiate the investigation. I have also discussed the situation with Mr Valvira's Director-General and the Director-General of the Police, and next Monday there will be a joint meeting between the Police Government and Valvira, which will see that the roles are clear, just in case. It is certainly clear to all of us that Valvira's supervisory activities are based on the fact that they have the best expertise to self-assess the issue, they also have the right to perform spot checks on the sites through the channels, as well as on subscribers, municipalities. The police cannot carry out checks on the subject if there is no reasonable reason to suspect that there has been a criminal negligence, but the police will provide all necessary support for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u21	Madam President! Falsification, fraud, forgery — these were the crime titles raised by Justice Minister Häkkänen when considering these care giants: Attendo, Meehi, Esperi Carea.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u24	Mr President! First of all, it is very important to condemn conscious negligence and, when the crime threshold is exceeded, it is very important that society is also able to carry the sentences forward. The police will not regulate criminal law and will not, in itself, be able to investigate anything other than cases where the threshold for pre-trial investigation is exceeded on the basis of existing legislation. As I said, at the moment, what we have instructed the Police Government and according to which they have begun to act is that the Police Government is coordinating investigations at national level. The central criminal police are normally investigating organised crime or international crime, and we do not in itself have a pre-trial investigation threshold under the heading of organised crime in this line. If it is necessary for the Krp to support police investigations, it shall be carried out immediately. At the moment, the police are in a position to handle the investigation themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u25	Madam President! ‘It is estimated that EUR300million will be made This is what it says on the Finnish Broadcasting News on 29.11.2013. And what parties were responsible for the last term of government? The Coalition Party, the SDP, the Left, the Greens and the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u28	Mr President! First of all, in response to the questioner, let us say a few basic things. In this Chamber, we can endlessly look to the guilty for things that have been undermining the conditions for municipalities to do well in providing elderly services. We can also thank each other for all the additions and good deeds that have been tried to invest, for example, in the euro during this parliamentary term. But if we could look forward together. It is inevitable that, in the way you ask — whether there is a need for savings in the services of the elderly — it is quite clear that we will be spending more money in this country, regardless of the government base or the social solutions, on services for the elderly than ever before, which is linked to the fact that our population is ageing at a record rate. I believe that this Chamber is exceptionally committed to the fact that valuable old age belongs to everyone. It will mean that our common agreement
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u29	I'm asking you to stick to this minute's deadline.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u30	Madam President! Minister Saarikko, you said a moment ago that you do not think there is a single hole in the service of the elderly, not a loophole that would allow our elderly to be treated inhumanely. This is what I understand you just said. I disagree with you on that point. There has been a dispute in Finland over the measurement of nurses for over 30 years. In Helsingin Sanomat, Professor Marja Vaarama told the journalist that in 1988 Professor Vaarama's working group counted 0.7 as a nurse's recommendation to the Social Board. In 2001, the Stakes research group, led by Vaara, defined that the excellent care of the elderly requires 1.2 nurses, good care 0.8 nurses, a satisfactory 0.5, which is the current recommendation. This year
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u31	Mr President! I'm sorry if I gave you the impression that the old-age service bill was somehow perfect. No, and that is why it is time to update that law, which has now been in force for about five years. I tried to point out that the legislation does not justify any abuse and maladministration and reprehensible, immoral acts that are now being reported in the public domain. Quality recommendations, not even quality recommendations at the level of the law, are also mandatory for operators, as well as the more precise framework conditions and practices there, which we require nationally from good care. Nurseship — you know my point of view on it — is an important theme and all of it in updating that old - age service law. But at the same time, it is inevitable to say that it is part of a larger entity, because we have to find out, for example, really and rightly how we are going to deal with the missing hole, about 4,000 nurses in the field, in a sustainable way, so that everyone is also able to:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u32	Madam President! This is the sort of thing that does not solve with this 0.7 increase alone, but requires an overall reform and a long-term intervention. I would have asked: what is the overall reform that is now being pursued, and what are the criteria on which a sustainable Finland could be built so that our elderly people and also the rapidly ageing people who sit here in Parliament can be built?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u33	Mr President! This week we informed the Ministry of Welfare and Health about the starting point for the next government, which will decide on this big change, the update of the law. We found five different points of view: Firstly, the prevention aspect that I have already mentioned here, the maintenance of functional capacity. Secondly, the number of staff, skills and targeting, and, secondly, the need for experts, taking into account the solutions of home care and informal care. Thirdly, the factors involved in ensuring the quality of care, such as the indicators and indicators of the quality of care, and the regulation of the control — which has been discussed here a great deal — are the factors involved in ensuring the quality of care. In addition, national criteria for assessing service needs to be comparable. And fifthly, the overlaps in the legislation currently in place between the Act on Elderly Services and the Act on Social Welfare, complementing it by the fact that the issues in the quality recommendations are being raised in concrete terms, at the level of the law, even more binding.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u34	Madam President! As we have just heard from Minister Saariko's reply, the government has taken steps to reform the entire legislation on services for the elderly and has been aware that there is no single magic figure to solve these problems. We are open-minded about this government's preparation and we will see what that expert preparation brings. But Prime Minister Sipilä here said that, when the social welfare reform was carried out, there would be 18 players instead of the current couple of hundred or so operators with more powerful skills in procurement, competitive competence, legal competence, contract competence, control skills. But I ask, Minister Saarikko: does not the reform of social services also fundamentally change that, when freedom of choice comes — that is, the elderly and their relatives themselves choose the institution to which they are going — it forces service providers to invest in quality in quite different ways than they do today?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u35	Mr President! The government has been accused of a solution that the opposition calls a market model, and you have spoken of us opening up the market. It seems strange in a country where half of the care for the elderly is already in the hands of private service providers. The difference between the government's social welfare package and the current state of affairs is perhaps two key points. First of all, the stronger responsibilities mentioned. After discussing with professionals in the municipalities, many of them feel that economic management and overall management — especially if private companies are involved — are not necessarily easy even for medium-sized municipalities. And as far as freedom of choice is concerned, just as the questioner said, its starting point is better belonging to the customer, the person who needs the services or his loved ones, his own voice. I have often wondered whether, if the Freedom of Choice Act were in force, would we really have looked at such a service production as the fate of our loved ones, or would we have voted on our feet for a different solution. The Freedom of Choice Act would have given this a chance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u36	Mr President! This is a question time for the government, but it is now necessary to correct Mr Nikon's speech that, under the leadership of the Social Democrats, an old-age service law was passed during the last parliamentary term. During this parliamentary term, it was weakened. No Social Democrat voted in favour of their weakening, unlike Mr Niikko. [MikaNiikkoarvo]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u39	Mr President! We still have to address this issue of control when it is repeatedly said in this Chamber that this reform would weaken control. I have carefully examined the fact that these things that have become apparent in recent weeks are in line with current legislation, both in line with the Act on Elderly Services and with the current Local Government Act, and when compared with the current Local Government Act and its future Regional Law as an organiser, a stronger organizer, the future province will have much better control possibilities. [Interjection]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u40	Mr President! Firstly, do these organisers have a better chance of monitoring? In this model of yours, the provinces have a weaker grip than the current municipalities, because you have built the model in such a way that anyone who meets the criteria is entitled to provide services. It is quite clear that the organiser will then have a weaker grip on the producers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u43	Mr President! Indeed, it is worth remembering that the organizer is the core that produces it, does it, looks at the whole thing. Self-monitoring is always needed, but self-monitoring is only one part. And if you think about it and see how municipalities can act today, then the municipalities have not necessarily been able to conclude purchasing service contracts that take due account of quality, and they have been out of hand in many ways. Valvira has now intervened in these situations. [Left: Unbelievable!]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u44	Mr President! It has been pointed out here that the municipalities have a responsibility. But it is quite difficult for municipalities to provide good services after they have been deprived of the money, as the demars did last season. Minister Saarikko said that we already have about 50% in private hands. This is for real. Already during the reign of Lipponen in 2001, when these Kela compensations came, the investors of the social workers became enthusiastic and came to the Finnish market. This did not lead to a healthy competition that had been fought healthyly, but also weakened the ability of the public sector to provide high-quality services because they had to compete with these social giants. This is a long-term problem. And now I'm asking: What is the government really going to do to fix this? Are you going to prioritize the money for the Finnish elderly? Are you going to return the subsidies cut by the demos so that the municipality can organise these high-quality services? And in what way are you going to tackle the greed of these jackals?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u45	Mr President! Here in the government's ranks, we tried to extract it from the speech of the representative of the core issue, and the municipal economy was perhaps another dimension, but you were thinking about this greed and corporate responsibility. During this Question Time, more government ministers have reported on the measures that are already under way and can be taken. For my part, Valvira — the current key player in social and health care supervision alongside the Regional State Administrative Agencies — engages in close dialogue with the police on the conditions for compliance with the offences and, consequently, reporting to the police and raising suspicions of crime. Individual citizens can also do this, but when it is done by a state institution, a supervisory authority, the criteria must be in place. I think it is very legitimate that this should happen if the framework conditions for the investigation are met. And if there is more systematic action, we heard from the Minister for the Interior, Mr Mykkäs, what can be done in such situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u46	Madam President! SDP, yes, last season with the blackmail of the Old Age Services Act [of the Socialist Group : Improvement!] Mr President! Why is this social reform being carried out? We have 75-year-olds currently at 500,000 and in ten years 800,000. For 14 years, efforts have been made to improve basic services and to target funding specifically for elderly services. This has not been successful, and it is because of this that the municipalities are having real difficulties in financing old-age services, and that is precisely why these buzzards are allowed to boast and go in this current market model. That is why I ask: why can it be that the opposition, even in this situation, is trying to prevent this reform which should have already been brought about?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u47	Mr President! Somehow this debate, the search for the guilty — we are probably all guilty of this. I myself miss Lahti and the machine gun and thinking about solutions. Of course, the government has considered this procurement competence in the municipalities on my own side — when I am responsible for the procurement law, which is absolutely essential. Quite a few of us are municipal decision-makers, and can't say with a pure heart that everything has gone just like in Strömsö.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u49	Mr President! Firstly, Mr Zyskowicz: Of course, there are no magic figures, but there is a minimum dimension and a figure that describes it. The other parties are currently discussing whether it should be a minimum measure instead of a 0.7 figure instead of 0.5 and whether it should be written into the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u54	Mr President! Mr Andersson, I very much appreciate you, but now I have to say that I really disagree with this arrangement, for example, that you describe the municipal decision-maker as somehow superior in its decisions instead, [From the Left Alliance Group: No, no!]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u55	Next question, the Finnish Parliament Group, Mr Raatikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u56	Madam President! The most important task of the Finnish State is to protect its citizens, young and old. It's been a bit of a failure lately. For the fourth year now, the government has been negotiating with Iraq to conclude a return agreement. There are no results. It is a question of bringing thousands of illegal Iraqis here back to their country of origin. So nothing's happened. The consequences in Finland are known, but the price has not been so much in the speeches — probably closer to one billion, or a thousand million. It is quite a sum, and it could do quite a lot of good for the Finns. According to a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, obtaining a return agreement with Iraq is only a long-term objective. With more than ten years of experience in the Middle East, I can tell you that if you go there and make any agreements in such a way that you have a long-term goal, they will never happen — I repeat: they will never happen. Finns are currently mainly interested in Finnish security and peace on the streets — now, not tomorrow or in 100 years' time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u57	Madam President! When you first talked about the return arrangements, four Iraqi criminals have been returned to Iraq today. [of the Group of Independent Finns : Ahoh,vai four!] We received more than 20,000 Iraqis in a large wave of refugees, several thousand of whom have returned voluntarily and several thousand have complained about convictions, and this negotiation is ongoing. Voluntary returns have worked, but forced returns, no matter what kind of refugee agreement Sweden has, have not succeeded. It's not up to a piece of paper. It depends on the outcome of the tough negotiations. This is the big thing we have to do here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u58	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u59	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for your reply. — I myself have been training Iraqi police officers in the desert in Jordan for over two and a half years. So I may have played my part in this. But the following question: Yesterday, in Helsingin Sanomat, there was an interesting article on forced return in Iraq, and it seemed to be an agent story of an eight-year-old child with quite a lively imagination.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u62	Madam President! Agent stories are also interesting when invented by MPs, even the Finns of Finland. Every time we were contacted about something, backgrounds were started to be clarified, and this story was, admittedly, quite peculiar, so it moved on from us to the Ministry of the Interior. We in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs decided that we would not take any other measures within this framework.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u64	Mr President! When reference was also made to the measures taken by the Ministry of the Interior, when someone wants to give an indication of what they think is relevant to this important issue raised by Mr Raatikainen, our cooperation in Iraq and that relationship, I think it is generally better to direct the information to officials to see if there is anything to be added to the puzzle about how decisions are taken in Iraq, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u68	Mr President! In Finland, as has been heard, there are several thousand of these Iraqis and asylum seekers from other countries who have been admitted. So they have not been granted a residence permit to stay in Finland. Now the government can't get them out of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u71	Mr President! You referred to Denmark. In fact, a week ago, I also discussed these different plans with the Danish Minister for Immigration, and he admitted that it is very difficult to build models. As we know, in Denmark, for example, this special island, which would not have been closed in itself, but which would be directed towards those who have been convicted of prisons or crimes of proselytism and expulsion, is not moving forward, because it has already created other difficulties at the planning stage. Our starting point is, of course, that if you receive a valid proselytism decision in Finland, you must leave here. Then, when there are persons who do not leave immediately if we cannot immediately make a return plan for them by the police, it is important for us to be able to observe particularly those who cause us concern.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u72	Next question: Green Parliamentary Group, represented by Emma Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u73	Mr President! This week many Finns woke up to the loss of insects. Human activity destroys species much faster than feared. Scientists are now talking about mass extinction, the sixth wave of extinction. At the end of last year, a report on the endangered nature of Finnish habitats was published, and this report was harshly read: Almost half of the habitats in the whole country are endangered. Tradition types were all considered to be endangered, and the second worst is forest nature. The development is in a weaker direction. However, Finland is committed to halting the loss of biodiversity by 2020, i.e. by the end of this year. I would like to ask the Minister: is it time to admit that, as a result of the policy that has been taken, Finland will not achieve the goal of halting the loss of biodiversity this year, even though we have promised this?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u74	Mr President! Indeed, Finland, like other countries, will not remain in this international goal of halting the loss of biodiversity worldwide by 2020 or even in Finland. I'll give you that. The report you referred to last autumn also tells us that many habitats are becoming rarer and, of course, changes in land use are one factor. In fact, there was a very good and interesting opportunity today in the Science Corner of the University of Helsinki where there was a dialogue with diversity researchers on what we could do better. In itself, the knowledge base we have in Finland is now the world’s top class, and perhaps that knowledge also adds to the pain. In other words, we have an exceptionally good knowledge of the development and diversity of species and habitats, and the results are indeed worrying to read.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u75	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u76	Mr President! After all, some years ago it was reported that in Germany, even in nature reserves, the total number of insects had fallen to about a quarter in a few decades from the start of these measurements. And this recent study shows that agricultural methods in particular, such as the use of insecticides, are a key cause of insect loss, which, if it continues, may threaten life, including man. The reform of the EU's agricultural aid rules is now under way. It is an opportunity to encourage agriculture throughout Europe to develop its methods in such a way as to better support biodiversity and, at the same time, the protection of water bodies and climate protection. Is the government now taking the line in the negotiations on EU agricultural aid rules that we use to promote environmental protection?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u77	Mr President! Indeed, as I have just said, changes in land use naturally affect biodiversity development and, in fact, in Finland, the most common endangered habitats are these traditional landscapes of old-fashioned agriculture, where a few cows and sheep grazed in the field on the edge of forests and fields and created a diverse environment. We no longer have this landscape of Finnish films in Finland, but agriculture has been subject to a variety of efficiency requirements, and larger and larger farms are always struggling with their own livelihoods, but at the same time the aim of the support system is to ensure that it is profitable and sensible for farmers to work for biodiversity as well. The shape of the future agricultural aid package will take, the weight it places on biodiversity conservation and climate issues, the time will show, but it must be said that every grazing livestock farm is extremely important for Finland's biodiversity. Farmers do a good job.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u78	Madam President! The 8th of March will be held at the Säätytalo, where a big event is planned to look at Finland’s endangered nature and endangered species. I understand the minister is there too. I believe at this point that this opportunity will not be very happy. We have a very large number of species that are endangered, including rare species of fish in current waters, salmon fish and others, and there are also major problems in forest species. There has also been a radical decline in field birds. It is not only because of Finland, but also because of international reasons. But I believe that when that report comes on the 8th, we should all look at it very carefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u79	There was no question here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u80	Mr President! I am sure it was a very wise comment from Mr Salolainen, but I wanted to ask the Minister for Education: When you talk to young people, their concern about the future is really great and many are distressed by the fact that perhaps we decision-makers have not been able to provide enough tools to combat climate change, for example, or to promote a circular economy that they would recognise, in which they could participate. I would like to ask: now that we are going to increase phenomenal education in schools, how can we put even more effort into giving tools and scenarios to young people so that they really feel that they can influence their future, and in what way do we politicians respond here to decisions, that is, what should be read in the next government programme?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u81	Mr President! Thank you for your point of view. I believe that it is training that is the way in which the protection of biodiversity and the halting of climate change can also be solved — education and research. We have new curricula in use in Finland in basic education and also in other levels of education, and they have been very up-to-date now and more than ever brought up these themes, which means that we are raising a more environmentally conscious generation. Similarly, teacher training on environmental issues, combating climate change has been increased and has also proved to be very popular. In phenomenon-based learning or curricula, where today schools have at least one time a year this kind of phenomenon-based review, for example, climate change has been one of the most popular when schools themselves choose them. This will enable us to learn about climate change, for example, from a number of different perspectives, and I also encourage us to expand on other environmental issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u82	The next question is the Swedish Parliamentary Group, Mr Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u83	Ärade talman, Mr President! Möjligheten att studera i gymnasiet eller inom yrkesutbildningen får inte vara beroende av hemmets economiska situation. Andra stadies utbildning borde vice avgiftsfri.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u84	Mr President! I believe that in this Chamber we all share the value base you described that every child and young person in Finland must have the opportunity to study, train and get through it in life. We have a wide free education system and we want to stick to it. In order to further this objective, a new form of support for secondary material costs, such as upper secondary school textbooks and other instruments, has now been created during this term of government, as well as in vocational education and training. In other words, the new material supplement will be allocated to young people from families who need support in order to study in upper secondary education. So this is a major act of equality. In addition, efforts are also being made to reduce these educational material costs. Of course, you know the parliamentary process better than the government knows it, but this study material supplement itself is an excellent solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u85	The last question is the Christian Democratic Parliament Group, Mr Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u86	Madam President! My question concerns young people's mental health services. The most common health problems among young people are mental disorders. Recently, it was reported that in the past twenty years, the number of outpatient visits of young people who have been assigned to special care for mental health has increased sevenfold. The number of young people receiving special psychiatric care has increased dramatically in almost the whole country: for example, in Uusimaa almost one in ten young people aged 13 to 17 were clients of special psychiatric care last year. In such a situation, the primary health care sector will no longer be able to benefit from treatment. I would ask the minister concerned: what measures will be taken to increase the number of preventive and low-threshold mental health services for young people in order to bring this development to a rapid halt? No nation can stand the fact that such a large proportion of their young people fall into exclusion.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u87	Mr President! I share the same concern as I am sure many in this Chamber. It is important to try to understand the whole of this phenomenon, which is related to the mental health of young people. First of all, there is a generation of young people and young adults growing up who are much more prepared to talk openly about the problems of their mental health. A certain type of taboo around them has evaporated, which I think is more than a positive thing. This, of course, has also increased the courage to seek help. The only problem is that we should be able to give it much more in the past. Even at the moment and during the last parliamentary term, good experiments and projects have been carried out in various parts of Finland, one of which I would like to highlight here. In Espoo, a mid-term model has been implemented according to the so-called IPC operating model in services, which you could probably call it and which is impossible to explain in this short time, but its results are good. They aim for rapid, strong support at an early stage, with an early focus on young people, which has led to a reduction in costs and the need for special care and to help young people in time. I warmly support the dissemination of this model throughout Finland, if the screens are this good.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u88	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. The basis for the discussion is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on PeVM 12/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. Mr Lapintie, Chairman of the Committee, presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u89	Madam President, thank you! The Government proposes to amend the Åland Islands Self-Government Act so that the provisions on the financial management of the Åland Islands are mainly revised. The economic system of the Åland Islands would be built on the current equalisation system, but it would be more flexible. State taxes levied on Åland are included in the accounts of the State and, correspondingly, funds are transferred to the Province of Åland to finance expenditure related to self-government. The dimensioning of the new equalisation system has taken into account the increase compared to the current situation to ensure that the Åland Islands perform their tasks. According to the Government’s proposal, the new tax system has two purposes. Firstly, the aim is to act as a more effective incentive for the current tax credit to increase its ability to pay taxes, and secondly, the proposed tax burden should be neutral in relation to planned and future state administration reforms. The reform would cover expenditure on self-government mainly by an annual equalisation rate based on the accounts of the State and the proposed tax adjustment. In addition, the possibility of additional discretionary appropriations being made available under exceptional circumstances is maintained. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs will keep the proposed amendments. . . [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u92	Madam President! The chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs presented the report of that committee, and I myself have tabled an objection on behalf of the Finns of Fundamental Rights and, in my view, an objection which I shall now state here. This need for reform has come from the fact that the regional and social reform affects the economic situation of Åland. It was noted that without amendments to the Act of Self-Government, the social welfare reform would bring the Government’s proposal 15/2017 — this is the government’s calculation — to Åland an increase of approximately EUR 57 million. It was then established that the financial position of Åland should be neutral in relation to this reform and that the financing criterion should be reduced. In the past, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also felt it was important to compensate Åland for this removal if the reform of the taste-song is carried out. According to the government proposal, this compensation would amount to approximately 3 million. Well, on 6 February this year the government submitted a proposal to Parliament that we are discussing, and the explanatory statement of this government's proposal states that if this were cost-neutral for mainland Finland, this would mean that this equalisation criterion would be 0.42, i.e. that it would compensate the 3 million that this government's war of war will now result in Åland. However, the government brought the proposal here and concluded that this equalisation criterion is 0.45. The Ministry of Justice issued an opinion to the Constitutional Committee and it is clear that the Government of the Province of Åland — the provincial days have not yet dealt with this, as required by the Act of Self-Government, but the Government of the Province of Åland — will not accept a lower compensation, i.e. this mere compensation of 3 million. Well, the government then agreed to Åland's demands, and this will then do according to the government's own calculations and the Ministry of Finance's calculations a further decrease of approximately EUR 17 million at the 2021 level, i.e. an increase of approximately 14 million, which will directly strengthen the regional economy. This is therefore a situation in which the government has wanted to agree to overcompensation in order to proceed with the reform of the taste-song. The original idea of replacing the loss of reform for Åland has changed completely. This will state is well known to the public in the statements made by Minister Sampo Terho. He notes that Åland has taken advantage of the situation and held the government hostage and the government has agreed to do so with teeth. [Simon Elo requests reply] I mean, the need comes from political reflection. It has been considered that if you want to take the taste of social work forward, you have to agree to Åland's performances. And yet Minister Terho says publicly that this is an irresponsible procedure. Does the Finnish Government therefore agree to blackmail? The Finns do not agree. From here Parliament gives the will mode that is our will when the parliament and the provincial days express, in agreement, what would be the solution for the future. For this reason, I have objected to the fact that the basis of Article 47 is 0,42 %, i.e. neutral. So it's the 3 million. We must have a decision-making power here now, right? Let us give the message of Parliament that we want this result of the negotiations, we want this state of will. It cannot be that Åland informs us of their will status, and we just say that OK, this will happen to us, then nothing can be done about it, and then it will be criticised in public.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u93	Madam President! First of all, with regard to the idea of who and when will take the social reform forward, the Finns of Finland took the first two years of this parliamentary period forward with the social reform. The blues take the rest of it and try to take it all the way to the good finish line. It is true that this proposal, when it comes to the internal procedure of the government, was carried out with teeth, because it was indeed a legal requirement for the reform of social security. In other words, it emerged from this debate in the Constitutional Committee that it is the progress of social welfare reform that requires the financing of Åland to be resolved in such a way as to change the law on self-government. Minister Terho didn't use the word hostage. He said that Åland has taken advantage of this legal situation and they have done so.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u94	Let's go to the list of speakers, Mr. Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u95	Irade fru talman! Riksdage och grundlagsutskottet har arbetat i expresst med det ärendet, ett förslag om revision av det ekonomiska systemet i Ålands självstyrelselag. Jag vill tacka utskottets ordförande, mina kollegor i utskottet samt utskottsråden för allt arbete med ärrendet. Eftersom ärrendet var mycket väförberett och i flera år har diskuterats, dock som en del av totalrevisionen av självstyrelselagen, var det smidigt att ta sig an det ox arendet. Den ekonomiska delen av självstyrelsen är också en mycket avgränsad, om n helt central del av självstyrelselagen. Flera av utskottets medlemmar har dessutom vart Engagerade i arbetet med att ta fram den nya självstyrelselagen, vilkett gör att de raus sakerna för många inte Heller är helt nya. Det har också funnits en klar samsyn på detta förslag mellan regeringen och Åland — tack till Ålandsminister Anne Berner som ärvarande koh och som en viktig del i att samsyne har hitats och municipalities förankras. Förändringen är väl förankrad i både Ålands landskapsregering och Ålands lagting, som enligt självstyrelselagen måste ge sitt bifall till denna ändring för att den ska kunna träda i kraft. Grundlagsutskottet har trots en rätt kort tid hast ett omfattande hörande av grundlagsexperter och sakkunniga. Grundlagsutskottet har hört fem stycken framstående grundlagsexperter vid sidan av justtieministerieet och finansministeriet, Ålands landskapsregering och Ålands landshövding, som också är ordförande för Ålandsdelegationen. Irade the Talman! Grundlagsutskottets betankande innehåller några huvudpunkter. För det första constaterar man att man rekommerar riksdage att godkanna förslaget till ändring av självstyrelselagen utan förbehåll. För det andra constaterar grundlagsutskottet att man ser det som uppenbart att statsrådets uttalande i samband med propositionen är en ståndpunkt av politisk natur. I fråga om grundlagen har utskottet påpekat att man inte får sutta igång med ändringsprojekt utifrån dagspolitiska scenarier och inte Heller om det rubbar de constitutionella grundlösningarnas stabilitet eller grundlagens function som stats- och rätsordningens fundament. Detsamma är relevant när det gäller ändringar i principiellt betydelsefulla, grundläggande lösningar i självstyrelselagen för Åland, constaterar utskottet i betankandet. För det tredje constaterar utskottet att ändringen måste godkännas innan landsskaps- och vårdreformen kan godkännas. Och för det fjärde constaterar grundlagsutskottet att det är viktigt att totalrevisionen av självstyrelselageen genomförs. Beredningen av en totalreform av självstyrelselagen har pågått redan länge, och i den actuella propositionen står det att samsyn råder mellan regeringen och Ålands landskapsregering om att totalreformen är avsedd att slutföras under de valperioder som närmast följer på denna valperiod, då man inte hann i mål under denna mandatapiod. Grundlagsutskottet ser det som viktigt att en totalreform genomförs. Därför föreslår utskottet också att riksdage godkänner ett uttalande där den förutsätter att regeringen snarast vidtar åtgärder för att genomföra en totalreform av självstyrelsegen för Åland. I practicen blir detta för nästa regering att ta sig an. Således är det en mycket viktig signal om att arbetet måste fortsätta under nästa riksdags- och regeringsperiod. Arbetet med att ta fram den fjärde totalrevisionen av självstyrelselageen har variantt långt och arbetsdrygt, men effectsom dessa revideringar bara brukar göras vart 30:e år är huvudsaken att slutresultatet blir bra. Tidtabelle har bull underordnad betydelse. Jag är säker på att vi kan nå i mål under nasta mandatperiod så att Åland får en ny självstyrelselag att fira effecter att självstyrelsen, en unik internationalell construction, fyllt 100 år.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u96	Madam President! It is indeed a great pity that the overall reform of the Åland Self-Government Act did not make it to this Parliament, and that, of course, is what we regret when this work has been done for a long time. On the other hand, we welcome the fact that this proposal is now here and that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has worked very carefully here, assessed this situation, and the solution there too has been almost unanimous. We had the opportunity with the Legal Committee to visit Åland in the early autumn, and there we were given a very precise explanation of how this administration and these funding have been organised. We understood that this is no longer the best way to serve Åland's own clear activities and, in particular, that Åland itself would also do a great deal of work on its own tax and financing base. This proposal states that the current system of tax credits is proposed to replace it with a new system of taxation. According to the Government's proposal, the proposed system change has two purposes. On the one hand, the purpose of the tax adjustment is to act as a more effective incentive than the current tax credit to increase the ability to pay taxes to Åland. On the other hand, the proposed tax burden must be neutral in relation to planned and future state administration reforms. In a way, therefore, the proposal is a little bit of such a mini-reform at this point, and then we can focus in peace on this overall reform, and in this interim period, this entire financing solution will be at a satisfactory level for both the province and, let me say, for the continent. I support this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u97	Mr President! The earliest roots of this bill and of this debate are the beginning of the 19th century in the Finnish war. That war in Finland ended in 1809 in the peace of Hamina, and in that connection this region of Finland and with it the Åland Islands then moved from Swedish control to Russian control.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u100	Madam President! Here Mr Löfström, who I am sure is satisfied with this proposal and the Ålanders, said that the position and situation in Åland should be respected. Of course, the government respects, the blues respect, I believe that all the parliamentary parties respect the commitments and obligations we have, and certainly Åland respects its own, but that does not mean, of course, that such additional funding should be provided, which is unfortunately what is being proposed here, EUR 14 million a year for money that is not linked to the reform of the war, bearing in mind that this contribution, which was accepted as a common position by the government on the Blues proposal, is that if the reform of the war does not proceed, then there will be no additional money. Then here Mr Kantola expressed the view that there is nothing new about the fact that this committee, where this has been negotiated, has also proposed additional funding. This is true in itself, but it must be borne in mind that the Ministry of Finance, for example, has not been very scrupulous about this kind of additional funding, because at the moment Åland is already receiving considerably more budget funding than any other province in Finland, and in this presentation almost EUR 500 per Ålander per year would then receive additional money. Representative The sea itself raised an essential point of view that, well, could it have been possible to have a solution in which Åland did not receive more, but did not get less. Well, such a solution was on the table as such, but the Åland days did not accept such a solution, where there really would have been no less money, but there would have been no more money. Everyone would have been happy. But, as I said and as Minister Terho has said, Åland took advantage of this legal situation with regard to the reform of social security and called on the government to adopt a proposal that will provide such a clear additional money as far as this is concerned. And that is why I must say that Åland is blackmailing the mainland in this regard. We must be able to say that directly, because we know that this progress in the process of social welfare reform will in practice require the consent of their provincial days. This is irresponsible from the blues' point of view. I hope and believe that, even from the point of view of the Assembly, this is irresponsible, because even the Assembly did not initially support such a proposal. It will then have to assess the position of Åland in the future and its relationship with the mainland, when such situations arise, which, from the perspective of the mainland, are totally unreasonable. However, this is the richest province in Finland, which I would like to stress. We respect our obligations, we believe that Åland will respect them, but that does not mean that such additional funding should necessarily come. This is now a tactical withdrawal from the government in connection with social welfare reform at this stage, which then includes this commitment that if there is no social welfare reform, there will be no additional funding for Åland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u101	Mr President! First of all, I do not agree with Mr Elo' s speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u104	Irade fru talman! Jag ska bemöta ledamot Elo just gällande att Åland nu skulle ha använt det ras tilfället med landsskaps- och vårdreformen till någon form av utpressning. Det stämmer inte överhuudtaget. Åland har under hela processen med landsskaps- och vårdreformen sagt att alla reformer som görs tai i riksdagen där Åland har självbestammande genom självstyrelselagen måste respektera Ålands självstyrelse, och det gjorde inte förslaget om landsskaps- och vårdreform från början. Redan innan det förslaget lades till riksdagen bad Åland om att få en utredningsman för att granska de svårigheter som landsskaps- och vårdreformen sannolikt skulle få på Åland. Då rain man från regeringens siida att det inte finns tid för en utredningsman att arbeta. I mars 2017 kom då lagförslagen om landskaps- och vårdreformen till riksdage, och de hade uppenbara problem som en utredningsman skulle ha kunnat titta på på förhand. Ånyo tog vi från Ålands sida upp behovet av en utredningsman att studera de koh sakerna. Från regeringens siida märkte man också att det fanns uppenbara problem med förslaget och att det skulle strida mot grundlagens jämlikhetsprincip. Därför drog man tillbaka en lag från det rai lagpaket och kom med en ny proposition som berörde finansieringen av Åland och de ekonomiska effekterna av landsskaps- och vårdreformerna som vårdreformen har på Åland. Den ox saken tog grundlagsutskottet ställning till redan under sommaren 2017 — i juni, 30 juni 2017 — och slog fast att inte Heller den häsningen är utan problem och att det krävs nya förslag, nya åtgärder för att konna se till att inte landskaps- och vårdreformen strider mot Ålands självstyrelse. När det gäller den ökade grundfinansieringen som en del av den oxälvstyrelsepropositionen är det en del av den heletslösning som regeringen och landskapsregeringen had kommit överens om att var en del av den totalrevisionen som skjuts på framtiden. Men det är också viktigt att minnas att det ox bara var en del av den förnyelse som skulle göras, för den ökade grundfinansieringen är bara en component. Det är ett now ekonomiskt självstyrelsesystem vi talar om, som är mer dynamiskt, mer flexibelt, precis som ledamot Kantola var inne på, som har nya element, och det innebär också mer risker för Åland. Om det inte går bra för Åland kommer man att betala för riskerna i det nya systemet på ett ätt stän i nuvarande system. Dossutom beaktar det den befolkningsökning som Åland har haft de Senaste 20åren, när Ålands befolkning har vuxit dubbelt så snabbt som landsets befolkning som hehet utan att grundfinansieringen har ökat. Det auri kan man se som att den ökade grundfinansieringen retroactive komenserar en sak som man nu lyfter in i det nya systemet, alltså att befolkningsökningen och tillväxten tas in i systemet.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u105	Mr President! I myself was on that reform committee of the Åland Self-Government Act. There were a lot of controversial questions there, and it was not quite as rosy as it has been suggested here. Firstly, I left there my own complementary view of this funding and of the many things that should be reformed. There was also Axel Jonsson of the Åland province days, who failed to sign the transfer letter. In other words, there were disagreements and it was not in any way a unanimous report, which is the basis for this. It is good to remember, however, that this now comes as a separate seven-chamber reform and the government itself states in this effort that normally this kind of solution would not be separately acceptable, but since this is linked to this social reform, this is now imported separately. When I looked at this announcement of my own and the so-called slightly different opinion of the Åland Committee, it has been said there — as I remember well from the hearings, for example, and I asked it now in the Constitutional Committee — that the province is debt-free. There, however, the Committee was able to explain that the funding in the province has been sufficient to carry out the tasks of the province. At least I have no new information that there is now some financial crisis in a debt-free province. The report continues to state from these different models that it would also be possible to move to the new model in an economically neutral way. There were different options being considered. If we return to this proposal, Mr Löfström said that the sovereignty of Åland must be respected, and then these international agreements were brought up. It is not a question of not respecting it, but it is not in the international agreement to talk about any level of funding in such a way that there is to be so much compensation, for example, in this case beyond what is going on with this reform, and otherwise there is no idea that there should be such a large amount of funding when you are used to a certain level or other. However, we have a recently published Ministry of Finance report on the fact that we have a need for cuts of EUR 2 billion or that we need to increase employment and so on. Don't you think we should share this in the entire realm? In fact, I ask Mr Löfström when he is a representative of Åland: do you not see it in a way that we share a cake as good as it is in bad times, or is it just that the Åland Islands are not waved by good times or bad times, but always have good times? To be honest, I'm at least personally disturbed by this. Here you also said, and the government's proposal also talks about incentives to pay more taxes. Yes, in many independent municipalities, which are also self-governing regions, as the municipalities are, many citizens in the municipality would like to have extra money with them so that it would be more fun and encouraging to work. This 14 million is clearly calculated and according to the studies of the Ministry of Finance, directly strengthens the regional economy. This is quite clearly an extra, so-called contract money, which was then paid in order to achieve that agreement. The Finnish Parliament is the other party, and the other party is the province day. This cannot be the case if we are informed in the Constitutional Committee and the government is informed that the provincial days will not agree to this. We are the Parliament of Finland. We now have the opportunity to tell you what our will is. I understand that the government may have been tied up in this and it cannot bring such a proposal here if the provincial government has said that they will not agree to it, but that the provincial days have not made any decisions, and even if they have, does it mean that the provincial days will decide for us too, what do we want to do here? The second option is to withdraw this government proposal in that respect. Change the government's proposal so that it doesn't The Åland Islands will be able to blackmail in this matter, so to speak, because at least I do not know any other reason. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u106	The following speakers: Mr Kantola and then Mr Elo, and then I will reply to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u107	Mr President! As you listen to this debate, it comes to mind that it is quite similar to the Brexit debate. That is where the British feel they are prisoners of the EU and do not accept the agreement negotiated by the Prime Minister with the EU. They want a better agreement, but the EU refuses to renegotiate. Is it a matter of a similar situation that if we reject this bill, then Parliament will send a message that the government must renegotiate a better agreement with the Government of the Åland Islands? These are some sort of analog situations. Mr President! It seems a little strange that the Government has unanimously attached such an attitude to this bill as it has attached to it that it is acceptable but not willing to accept — accepted, but it is repugnant to have to accept it. I would imagine that if such a practice became more widespread, for example, a recital would be attached to the budget of the State to something that ‘satisfactory’,when a budget is required to propose,in order to cut some benefits and cause people to be disappointed’.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u112	Madam President! It is quite clear that both the Government and the Blues respect Åland's autonomy and, as I have said, the obligations and commitments we have. We believe that Åland will also do the same in relation to the kingdom. Nevertheless, it does not mean that such an agreement is now in the interests of the mainland and that such additional funding should come. The Ministry of Finance has always been in favour, and I personally believe that the province which receives the most of all budget funding — far more than any other province — does not need such additional funding. Mr Löfström himself, in his excellent speech — as in the case of Åland — pointed out that the new self-government law would create more risks. I find it difficult to see what the risk is, if it is offset by EUR 14 million, the fact that a decision has been made — something that would have happened to everyone in the government without any connection to the war — that there would have been no additional funding but that there would not have been a reduction in funding. That would have been the most just solution for the province, which, as has been rightly said here in itself, is free of debt. I would also like to raise the question of whether there is also a consensus on what the blue ones are in this regard, namely that this decision was taken all the way within the government with this unanimous commitment that if the reform of the social security system does not proceed, then there will be no further funding. I understand that we, both in the blue and in the assembly, have had a unified view — which has also been at the Ministry of Finance — and there is no need for such additional funding. I hope that this view will be maintained during this period and that it will remain during the next parliamentary term when these issues are dealt with.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u113	Then Mr Löfström and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u114	Irade fru talman! Bara tre stycken korta commentarer till det som ledamot Meri tog upp. Det är viktigt att komma ihåg, för det första, hur dagens system ser ut. Ålänningar och bosatta på Åland betalar Skatt precis som alla andra finländare, precis mosma kattesatser som alla andra finländare. Av det raus får Åland tillbaka 0.45 percent i en så kallad avräkning eller klumpsum, och den raus klumpsum har inte beaktat befolkningsökningen. Det har variant grund problemmet, för ju snabbare Åland växer, desto fattigare blir Åland per capita. Så vi måste få ett system som beaktar befolkningstilllväxten, som har variantt valdigt stark på Åland. För det andra, som också ledamot Meri vet sedan Ålandskommittén, föreslog många av det åländska lagtingets ledamöter att Åland skulle få öjlighet att övera beskattningen av förvärvsin komsterna, för då skulle man inte behöva diskuera över- eller underfinansiering. Det skulle betyda en betydligt större risk för Åland än det nuvarande systemet, men det skulle inte behöva betyda några transfereringar överhuvudtaget. Men det raus såg man inte på med blida ögon från flera olika håll. Och för det tredje, och det sista jag tänkte säga, är just det bull arguments att Åland är skuldfritt. Landskapet Åland är skuldfritt, men inte är de åländska kommunerna skuldfria på samma sätt som de fastländska kommunerna. Tvärtom är flera kommuner på Åland ordentligt skuldsata. Men anledningen till att landskapet Åland inte är kuldsatt har att göra med den goda ekonomiska situationen på Åland via den goda sysselsättningen, att 82 percent av ålänningarna har arbete. Arbetslösheten är under 4 percent, och det gör att man inte behöver betala ut så pass mycket sociala förmåner som man skulle behöva med en högre arbetslöshet. Utan det korsområde i dag, så det är viktigt att komma ihåg dessa basfakta när man diskuterar de toi finansieringsfrågorna gällande Åland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u115	Madam President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the Åland Islands Self-Government Act so that the provisions of the Act on the financial management of the Åland Islands are reformed. The need for this proposal has been emphasised in itself because of regional and social reforms, but there are other reasons in particular. After several years of ongoing reform of the Autonomous Law in the Parliamentary Committee of Åland, this committee tried in its report to reconcile the impact of the draft law on the financing of the regional and social welfare reform with the so-called 'tax credit' of the regional compensation system. At the end of the committee work in spring 2017, regional and social reform was first discussed in the Constitutional Committee. In this context, it was noted that the draft Act on the financing of regional and social welfare reform was assessed as having an effect on the tax credit provided for in the Autonomy Act by abolishing it in its entirety. Following the Committee's work on the overall reform of the Self-Government Act, work was continued in the Working Group at Civil Service level, which continued to develop the provisions of the Self-Government Act, including the financial regulations of the province, on the basis of the feedback received from the Committee's report and the discussions in the administration. It should be noted that the proposal for a new chapter 7 of the Self-Government Act is based on the solution agreed in the context of the overall reform of the Self-Government Act on the proposed regulation of the economy of the Åland Islands. Thus, as mentioned above, the reform has a broader framework than that which would result from the regional and social reform on its own. My own starting point has been that it must be possible to reform the regional economic regulations separately, once these had been agreed upon in the context of the overall reform with the Åland Islands. In addition, in my view, it was already apparent from 2017 that without the amendment of section 49 of the Autonomy Act on the tax credit, it could be difficult to adopt the Regional and Social Reform Finance Act under the ordinary legislative procedure. A great deal of work has been done on the overall reform of the Åland Self-Government Act during this parliamentary term, but unfortunately no agreement was reached on its final content in the early autumn of 2018. As a result, the draft law now presented contains only changes to the regional economic system and not at this stage other necessary amendments to the self-government system.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u116	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 17/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u117	Mr President! In Finland, legislation currently allows marriage to a minor with an exception. This is a very special and historic relic, because the child’s best interests should always be at the centre. It is therefore necessary to re-evaluate this historical practice and I am very pleased that the Minister: Häkkänen has brought this bill here to Parliament. A child’s best interests are best served when he or she can only enter into a marriage when he or she is of adult age and of his or her own volition. Even cultural or religious reasons are not sufficiently valid reasons to allow the exemption procedure. Society has also changed over the years, and, for example, the pregnancy of a minor does not mean that a young person should marry or that it would not be acceptable to have a child without a marriage. The abolition of the exemption rule would clarify our legislation when all children would be treated in the same way. The practice today is also in conflict with the UN recommendations and is not in the best interests of the child. The derogation procedure has been abandoned or is also being abandoned in the Nordic countries. Apostasy would also send a clear signal to an international field that would strengthen our position and reputation abroad as a defender of the rights of girls and children. In all decision-making, adults and society must think about the best interests of the child, and the promotion and adoption of this law is in line with it. Let the children be children and leave the marriage as an adult agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u118	Mr President, ärade talman! The proposal to repeal the provision of the Marriage Act allowing children under 18 years of age to marry is a long-awaited amendment of the law, and I agree with the previous speaker, Mrs Laiho. I would like to explain here, however, why I am going to be making a further point here tomorrow, and in fact I think that since this is a rather complicated matter, it is essential that I tell you this in this Chamber as well. I have raised an objection, which is not related to this basic solution, but to the fact that it remains half-way. Referring to international human rights conventions and, in fact, to the long-term work of all women's organisations and also to the expert opinion of the Federation of Women's Organisations and other experts in the Committee on Legal Affairs, I agree with the proposal that child marriage can never be in the best interests of the child and that the ban on child marriage is a decision that has positive effects, particularly from the perspective of girls' rights. Of course, there are some underage boys who are affected by this. Then, of course, it is in their interests too that marriage is not made. Child marriages are a sexually transmitted problem, as girls are heavily overrepresented among underage marriages. Increasing the minimum age for marriage to 18 years also prevents forced marriages. Most of the exceptional permits allowing children to marry have been applied for for for religious or cultural reasons in a situation where the girl has been pregnant. Although, according to some views, child marriage is not always a forced marriage, it is evident that, especially in cases of pregnancy, applications for waivers may be motivated by persuasion and pressure to control the sexuality of girls. However, contrary to what may have been expected and indeed the proposal to the Legal Committee, this proposal does not contain a legislative proposal which allows for the dissolution or annulment of this underage marriage which we all expected. This means that this minor spouse can only break away from a wrong marriage through divorce and that in this case the entry of the divorce status of the population register will also be recorded in the documents. When you look at the situation from a human rights point of view, it is unreasonable to put a minor, a so-called harmful tradition, in a position where he is forced to demand divorce to break away from such child marriage. The expert consultation has shown that the women's movement is broadly in favour of criminalising and, at the same time, allowing forced marriages to be annulled, and this is also bound by the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Prevention of Violence and Domestic Violence against Women — the so-called Istanbul Convention — and Articles 32 and 37 thereof. The application for annulment shall be made easy and free of charge and the possibility of annulment and its legal effects shall be duly communicated so that the information reaches the parties concerned. The legal effects of nullity on the parties to the marriage and any children born during the marriage should also be clarified and it is important to ensure that it does not have negative legal or economic effects on the children born in the marriage or on the spouse seeking annulment. On the basis of these, I have in fact proposed in the Committee on Legal Affairs that two separate paragraphs be added to this, specifically enabling the possibility of annulment of child marriage and protecting possible situations for children. I will therefore come tomorrow to add two additional points to this Article 4. However, of course I support this whole basic solution, but I can see that it remains half-way in this way. I hope that we will have support for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u119	Mr President! It is indeed a good thing that after the adoption of this proposal, child marriages in Finland are finally history. Children's rights have been given priority and, as Mr Biaudet has said, the annulment of these child marriages, forced marriages and the three impetuss that the Committee on Legal Affairs has written on this matter are important, and I hope that preparations will be made quickly for them, that we will also receive proposals for them soon to the House. Yes, it is a very important step forward in the exercise of children's rights, especially those of girls, that this exemption procedure, which has been made possible by the conclusion of minors' marriages, is finally abolished. Thank you, Attorney General Antti Häkkänen, who has taken up this issue. This was finally taken up, and we will be able to bring this matter to an end. In a state of education, it is absolutely necessary that the marriage be made conditional on the existence of an adulthood. I also think it is important that, by adopting this law, we give an important international signal that marriage as a minor is not acceptable in Finland. This decision has already been taken by other Nordic countries in the past. And, as Mr Laiho has said here, it is very important that Finland works hard for all girls and women in international arenas. Finland’s goal is to end child marriages all over the world and, as we know, worldwide 12 million girls a year end up getting married at the age of 18. This is a global problem. But once the Ministry of Justice has taken this issue so quickly, I would like to remind you that there is still no separate law in Finland that would prohibit female genital mutilation, and I really want to remind you of that. If there is no time for this parliamentary term, I hope that we will have a Minister of Justice in the future, who will actually tackle the problems that girls face in Finland and globally.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u121	Mr President! First of all, I think this basic solution is excellent and I think it was good that the entire Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights took this issue forward and recognised this problem, and now we have found a fairly good solution to this. Of course, this is primarily a matter of national importance, but it is also important, above all, to give an international signal of our values, and specifically the ban on these child marriages is an extremely important and long-term objective which is now being banned by this motion, and that is an extremely good thing. A great deal has been said about which representative The Biaudes brought it up, and I feel it is very important that we all find it very important to clarify the possibility of this annulment, but I personally feel that there was not enough preparation, and that this was perhaps more complicated than we might have thought in advance, so I think it is important that we now have strong positions on this issue, which reflect on the best interests of the child and how they are dismantled, how the legal effects are working, and that this is now being done forcefully and quickly, above all together, so that we can finally finalise this in its entirety. But I would stress that this proposal as it stands is an extremely good and concrete first step in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u122	Mr President! In my youth, I saw the consequences of marriages of this kind so close, and that is why I think this bill is a good, great thing. I don't know how to take a stand on this annulment of a marriage. It may be a more complex legal problem, but I am very much in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u123	Mr President! I too agree with Mr Lehde that it is good that this law is now being reformed and that legislation is living in time. The exceptional procedure allowing minors to marry is now abandoned, and that is what has already been done in Sweden, Norway and Denmark, so we are now following the model of the other Nordic countries. Children should have children as long as they are given that opportunity. As explained earlier, these marriages and exceptions for minors were justified by the fact that children born out of wedlock were not well regarded but rather harshly viewed. Of course, now that the number of immigration has increased in Finland too, this international perspective should be taken into account, and we must do everything we can to eradicate all kinds of laws that make child marriage possible in Finland as well. One thing that we in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights were, of course, these cancellations in relation to child marriages, in relation to underage marriages, for example, which have been made abroad. If, then, they come to Finland and if children have been born in a marriage, what are the consequences if this marriage is annulled or dissolved? In that sense, it is not in any way clear what should be done in such a situation. I think it is important for the Ministry of Justice to really monitor the implementation of this legislation in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u124	Mr President! However, this is not about marriages that have taken place abroad, nor is it about marriages that have been entered into in Finland, in a very Finnish community, above all about those that I disagree with. And in that sense, although I do not want to spoil a good presentation, there is a certain feeling that I must also say that I am rather disappointed that such things, which have been discussed for many years, are not going to be prepared with the same speed as perhaps some other things. In particular, it seems that such a gender-sensitive approach to legislation, and perhaps also to different legislation in the various fields of the Ministry of Justice, is rather weak for the time being. I hope that this is a development that has improved and in which we have learned lessons. This is not so difficult that this could not have been properly prepared. This basic problem has been known and, in that sense, I cannot help but criticise the fact that the Ministry of Justice has not been able to prepare itself more quickly. However, I am glad that this too exists now and that this is moving forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u125	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 21/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u126	Mr President! This is a unanimous report from the Committee on the Environment. This is, in a way, moving the procedures to the present, transforming the processing of paper documents into electronics. The Act on the Protection of the Environment and the Water Act will be amended so that documents are sent to the authorities primarily by electronic means, and the authorities and municipalities will abandon their physical billboards and declarations that have previously been on paper sheets and will be communicated on the Authority’s website. However, citizens could, for example, continue to deliver opinions and reminders to the authorities on paper. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection stresses that there are still issues that need to be announced or announced in the newspapers, particularly in the case of large-scale environmental issues. However, in this case there is a right of discretion for the authorities. Where a document, the beginning of a process or the decision of an authority, is published on the website, it shall be deemed that the persons entitled to the appeal have been informed of that decision within one week. And then, from this seventh day, when the matter has been published on the website, the time for appeal starts to run, which means that in practice the time for appeal will be extended by a week from what it is today. As a general rule, for citizens, this is a good reform, because regardless of the time and location and the day of the week, these documents can be checked on the website. Mr President! As I said at the outset, the committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u127	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 41/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u128	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to introduce a new Water Transport Act to repeal the current Water Transport Act and the Law on the Registration of Water Vehicles. I consider this reform to be necessary because its aim is to enable automation and to increase the safety of water transport and responsible boating. Water users and their behaviour are regulated in great detail and forcefully also at international level. It is therefore a good thing that this reform has been based on this international regulation. The reform proposes that all requirements for surveying and equipment for chartered boats should be waived and that chartered unoccupied boats should be subject to general regulation on recreational craft. I cannot agree with this if we want to go ahead of security. In my opinion, it is not enough to have the opportunity to issue additional provisions on the boats and their equipment for hire, if necessary. According to the proposal, any change in the rental boat business would facilitate the renting and sharing of boats and would contribute to the establishment of the freedom of business provided for in the Constitution, i.e., in Finnish we go ahead of business. I was also hoping that even the committee would have taken into account the specific requirements for compliance with the rules on water transport and for the movement of water. By this I mean that, at the moment, you can carry a very large boat in the waters and you do not have to understand the rules on water transport. Quite often, I have had to interfere with the boater’s actions when he has not even mastered the general obligation to evade in the waters.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u129	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u130	Mr President! Let us hope that this debate will take place in a good Valentine's Day spirit. — Today we are dealing with the legislative initiative tabled by the opposition last week to raise the number of staff in the 24-hour care of the elderly to the level required by the experts, 0.7 per age in receipt of services — at least — which is the level that makes good care and care possible. This joint legislative initiative by all opposition parties has 93 signatories. It is indeed a pleasure to note that one representative of the government parties is also among the signatories.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind all of us that the length of the presentation of the bill is up to 10 minutes and, according to the list of normal speeches, the maximum is 7 minutes. I hope that this rule of the game can be adhered to more or less. — Reply, Mr Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u136	Mr President! I really took the floor because such a good presentation was made by the first signatory of this bill — who, I might say, is the mother of 0.7 — the mother of 0.7, the representative of Guzenina. The reason why I replied was that it really turned out here that one of the representatives of the government party has also signed this. Apparently it's a blue representative, Saarakkala. But now that so many parties have been in favour of this 0.7 measure, and when I see that there is a former minister, among other things, and when I see that Mr Rehula's name does not exist in this initiative, I would have liked to be right here to ask if there is any support for this from the government. Congressman Rehula, are you in favour of this 0.7-hospitalization?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, the reply should include either a correction, a clarification, a comment or an equivalent to the content of the intervention by the speaker whose reply was related. I did not just see the correction, the comment, the reply to Mr Guzenina's speech, but the focus of the debate was thrown elsewhere. I will no longer give answers to this stage of the debate. The next speaker, according to the list, is Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u139	Mr President! We are talking here today about human resources, but at the same time we are talking about the right to a good and human life. It is now sufficiently clear that, without stronger legislation, this issue will not materialise, and that is why this bill must be supported. In addition to correcting the shortcomings that have recently arisen, we need to think seriously about whether we may have made other mistakes in the care and care of older people. One such mistake, in my opinion, is that in our society there is a mantra saying that the best place for an elderly person is always his own home. However, no one asks the elderly himself. Home care is under-resourced in many places, and there are people living at home whose human residence is no longer their own, but should be in a community home. So the Memory Federation uses the term community home, which refers to a variety of forms of community housing, such as family care homes, group homes and also enhanced service housing. Thus, enhanced service housing also meets the criteria of the community home if it is properly organised. Home is not just walls and furniture. Home is more of an emotional state. An elderly person may feel at home if he can live a life that looks like his own life story, have meaningful things to do and enjoy in everyday life, is appreciated and respected as an individual person and can experience that life is meaningful and meaningful. The community home is outdoors and also attends events outside the home. These things, then, give rise to a home and a feeling of home. The same things also guarantee human dignity. It is also possible to achieve these things in 24-hour care and care when there are enough skilled staff there. Professional and adequate staff are able to build a community home, and if the dimension is below the 0.7 presented in this bill, then these things are quite impossible to implement. Sometimes even this larger dimension is needed. These recent examples show that service housing is guided by the objectives and rules of institutional culture rather than the community home. A couple of years ago, the Memory Federation published the criteria for assessing good care, and they enable each care community to assess how human and domestic care and care are carried out there. I hope that these criteria will soon be introduced everywhere. Mr President! I would like to return to home care, because there is also a lot to develop and that too needs to be discussed when we talk about human and good life. As I said earlier, the resources for home care are also scarce, which is why home care is now passive. They offer a variety of ready-made service packages, such as catering and shopping services for home delivery. Nurses are in such a hurry that it is not possible for them to carry out rehabilitative care. The whole culture of home care should be reversed, i.e. instead of taking home services, or alongside them, we should consider how to get older people out of the home. From the point of view of maintaining functional ability, indoor exercise or gymnastics never replaces outdoor walking. Watching TV does not replace a theatre performance or listening to a radio concert, and that too should be the right of every elderly person. A change in culture is needed in home care, and therefore the resources of home care must also be reconsidered. Home care also requires cultural fields and shopmates. The lack of transport services also currently prevents many older people from being involved in society. Nothing is so inhuman and so expensive to society as to leave the resources of an elderly person unexploited, lived at home or in a community home. The cultural change in home care would also make it possible to live at home longer, but on the other hand I would like to continue to say that the boundaries of home care are somewhere. When a single person no longer remembers to eat or drink and does not know what is being done in the bathroom, he should no longer be in his own home but in a community home. Unfortunately, at the moment, there are also such people in home care who do not remember to eat or drink or know how to use the phone and who do not know what is being done in the bathroom. It's really inhuman. And then when a person moves into a community home, everyone there must have the right to outdoors and active life. That is why we need to get the minimum size into the law, and that is why we need to support this bill. Finally, Mr President, there has been a debate on how to get more care workers. Of course, education must be increased, but on the other hand, it is good to remember that many nursing workers in Finland have moved away from social welfare and health care tasks or have moved to do similar work abroad. One reason is poor pay, but at least the same reason is inhumanity in working life. According to studies, more and more nurses and local nurses are considering changing the sector because there is such a great contradiction between reality and professional identity: work cannot be done as well as you would like. If working conditions are made more humane, for example by improving the dimensions, many nursing workers will certainly consider returning to the sector or also to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u140	Mr President! In this spirit of Valentine's Day, Mr Guzenina's initiative has included the good thing on which there was a very broad support in the debate on the intermination issue, namely that the current system is leaking. The good objectives of the current law have been abandoned in many institutions, resulting in grotesque events: money has conquered humanity. We need the basis for this binding personality, as we have announced. At the same time, I would say that Mr Nurminen's initiative, which is next, is also good and important. At the same time, it is important to point out that nursing is only one of the necessary measures to ensure good institutional care for the elderly. In addition to binding carers, the number of carers must then also be proportionate to the needs of the institution’s customer structure. The principles of this current Act on Elderly Services are good, but on the basis of the experience seen, we need a series of binding measures, mandatory reporting and increased penalties. A number of mandatory treatment criteria, their indicators, including consultation of residents and evaluation of treatment outcomes, should be introduced into the law. It also includes reporting and monitoring of these indicators in institutions, supervision by its municipality and future province, and then supervision of Valvira in the background. With reference to the previous debate, I am firmly convinced that the organisation and supervision of the care of the elderly in the future social welfare regions will mean a significant improvement in the current situation and a better control of the current market forces. It is a great thing that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has already started the preparation of this important package, which also includes this important initiative. In the same context, the broader picture of care for the elderly must also be borne in mind. This reinforced institutional care may have about 40,000 people, while at the same time there are about 1 million older people, i.e. over 65 years of age. The big thing for the Republic is the healthy ageing of this large group so that we can live healthy and functionally for as long as possible. In this connection, we have proposed, among other things, a maternity clinic for pensioners and a health check for pensioners, which has good experiences in Raahe. This also involves home care, which was already mentioned here, in the event of difficulties. Its resources and staff availability and the necessary human resources must also be secured there. In other words, this healthy ageing and home performance of a large population of retirement age is really a big matter for the Republic and also a mega-class issue for social costs. So, Mr President, while we are putting the care of the elderly in order, we must not forget the wide picture of healthy ageing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u141	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Happy Valentine's Day to the first signatory of the initiative, Mr Guzenina, and to all the other Members of Parliament. [From:Thank you, thank you!]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u156	Mr President! For almost a second, I thought it was some bad bush play. If it wasn’t such a serious matter, surely it would have smiled. Mr Zyskowicz's many claims were completely inaccurate and in part even went to the comedy side. Now, this first point or argument: you said that the government is not going to settle the question of binding the dimension on the law. This is news. Do the people in the centre agree on this point, who have come out very forcefully and who have said that the Centre Party is in favour of a minimum level of 0.7 and, in particular, of the parameters, that it is the minimum and careability that is being taken into account? Just like in this opposition initiative. Ben Zyskowicz’s error number 2: ‘In the operating unit’ —Improving the initiative,Article 20 —’to be staff, whose number, training and task structure are responsible for the number of senior staff and their capacity However, the size of the staff is expected I don't know.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u157	Ladies and gentlemen! This debate will then not go beyond the rules of the game which have been decided unanimously by the Parliamentary Council of Presidents — the whole Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u158	Mr President! I asked for a reply when Mr Guzenina spoke about his initiative coming to the committee tomorrow, so I would say that this is indeed the case. In the morning, we will be discussing in committee whether care for the elderly will be taken as a matter for the whole of Parliament through a committee or even go so far as to provide support for the adoption of Mrs Guzenina's initiative. So, more of this in the morning. But now that there is a chance, Mr Zyskowicz, I must say that I have never heard anything as sad as what you are saying. Minister Saarikko tells us here that the preparation of the Act on Elderly Services is being rushed, that people are now measuring their trust in the welfare state and that both dimensional and wider preparation is being started, and you told us here that the government is not going to prepare for a broader approach and is not going to prepare for the adoption of a nurse's statute. I'm really disappointed in that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u159	Mr President! After Mr Zyskowicz's speech here, it was said that it would have been funny if it were not and so on. I think, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you gloated, you laughed. It's verifiable from the tapes what happened here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u162	Following Mr Rehula's speech, I give a reply to the chairman of the committee, Mr Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u163	Mr President! I would like to thank Mrs Rehula for her confidence and then say that this initiative by Mrs Guzenina should be dealt with by Parliament and, in the normal way, it will also come before the committee, and it will be called democracy, Mr Rehula. And this is the case in the morning. I'm a nurse myself. I have done so since 2012 when I have been able to work for a long time in the Ministerial Working Group on Social Affairs and Health Policy. On the basis of these estimates, we currently have only 20% of our current services meeting this 0.7 minimum, so the target should be raised from 0.7, but the minimum should be there. In addition, I am in favour of a broader package of measures, and in this respect I find it a little incriminating to suggest that this larger package would somehow be in opposition to the SDP, quite the contrary. But we would be ready to move from words to deeds.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u164	Mr President! I think it is quite a curious idea that the task of family members is to monitor the quality of services. Then, of course, it must be borne in mind that we have more and more people with memory problems living alone, and especially of them and the quality of their care and care we should be concerned about. I wonder how a person with a memory disorder chooses a service provider or changes a service provider if the treatment is poor. He can't do that. So many people don't even have the family, and that quality control is not part of the family's duties, and the family has not enough information to do it either. Or what will happen if there are no relatives, when there are not enough resources for this control by the regional government authorities? Self-monitoring has proved to be completely inadequate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u165	Mr President! Mrs Guzenina has said here that she is sad about Mrs Zyskowicz's speech and this debate, but I must say that I am sad about the very simple proposal by Mrs Guzenina and her attitude towards this whole question of elderly services. The same applies to the opposition as a whole. If I remember correctly, last week Minister Saarikko, in his speech, said that the recommendation has currently been 0.5 in the nurse's report and 0.65 in its implementation and, if it were raised to 0.7, the need would be for some 4200 additional nurses. [ Mid-term talks on the Socialist Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u166	Mr President! Let's get one thing straight. No one has claimed that in this challenging matter only one thing will remedy all the problems. But none of that, that is to say, to make sure that the necessary number of staff is taken care of by the elderly, that there are enough caring hands, is not acceptable for the assembly. Well, that's made quite clear. During the last parliamentary term, the carer’s appointment fell into opposition to the Coalition Party, and even this season, after Mr Zyskowicz’s remarks, it seems that the carer’s appointment falls into opposition to the Coalition Party. When Minister Saarikko said here that yes, this reform work is also going through the question of carer size, Mr Zyskowicz said that this will not happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u169	Mr President! Representative Zyskowicz, like many others, is simply blaming the municipalities here. In the early part of this decade, especially until just last year, local government finances have been so tight that municipalities have been forced to choose the cheapest care. It's your government's fault, the Katainen government, to a large extent. So the money has not been enough for good care, and that is what our old people are still suffering from today. Then the second question is that we need this 0.7 in the law. The Finns are in favour of it,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u170	Mr President! I am reading the news here, where Minister Saarikko says that the preparation for recording a nurse’s appointment will begin. Now I wonder who here has misunderstood who is, as it were, right about this. It would be good to hear it now — there are representatives from both the Assembly and the Centre, who will probably know what has been agreed on — because this is the key divisive message that you are telling us here. To Mrs Zyskowicz, I would like to say that if you think about a situation in which you have been waiting at home for months, worried, concerned that there are constantly running out, unable to take care of the memory disorder, and when you finally get there for 24-hour care, it will not be a restaurant that you can say the next day that I did not like this place.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, at this stage of the debate, I will give the floor to the representatives of Nurminen, Lindtman, Kari, Guzenina and Zyskowicz, and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u172	Mr President! I was wondering why this excellent initiative did not receive any more signatures from the parliamentary representatives of the government parties. Now I understand, because Mr Zyskowicz here tells me that this issue is not even being prepared and that it is not being sought. In that sense, I now understand why. But now the committee initiative has been taken, and I would like this to be taken forward, and in that sense the government could look at its position, because this is an extremely important issue. This is where Mr Zyskowicz says that this will not be resolved by one sentence. This is an improvement, this one sentence, on this issue. At the moment, people in 24-hour care are in such poor condition that they need another person for all their daily lives, to turn their side, to the bathroom, a large number of people have memory disorders, they are totally dependent on these nurses and people. Simplely, there are too few nurses, and this entry in the law ensures that good treatment is even in practice
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u173	Mr President! It has been suggested that there are nursing homes with a lower size than 0.7. I understand that this is also the position of the Coalition Party, which is why we do not want this to be recorded in the law. Can you name a nursing home where less than 0.7 is enough, or a person for whom it is enough? Secondly, no one has claimed that this alone determines that this would solve the entire care of the elderly. If that's what anyone's been saying, I'm asking you to present a source. But, Mr President, the news here was that Mr Zyskowicz, Mr Zyskowicz, also known as the Deputy Minister of the Government, stated in that toilet that, contrary to what Minister Saarikko has suggested, the government is not going to be able to cope with the recording of the nurseship in the law. I have the Yle-news here, where Minister Saarikko says that he will start preparing for the nurse's appointment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u174	Mr President! This is probably where we start to get around this plate, and I hope that there will be an answer from the assembly or perhaps from the centre. I don't think there are any blues in this room on such an important issue. It is also surprising that the impression is given that it is precisely from this opposition that all the problems will be resolved with this dimension. But let's solve one problem. I think the chairman of the Coalition Party was more interested in decimals or lack of them, but these spots and numbers mean more than 4,000 people in the care and care services, and the 4000 people are not out of anything but are a plus to the level of service that is now being raised. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, are you behind this motion or not? Has Minister Saarikko spoken against the better truth, Mr Zyskowicz?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u175	Mr President! There are currently 30,000 healthcare professionals who have applied elsewhere. Ten years ago, there were 10,000, now there are 30,000. Can Finland afford to train these people who then move away because the care and care sector is so hard for them? One expert after another — expert after another, google if you do not believe — has in the last few days publicly stated that although they may have doubted that the rating was recorded in the law at level 0.7 in 2012, they are now in favour of it. Now they're in favour of it. The coalition seems now to be the last fort, and now you seem to have caused such confusion within the government. Ben Zyskowicz, you have just told us that the Minister is not preparing this binding treatment measure for the law, as he said just recently. What's in the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u176	And before Mr Zyskowicz's speech, I would like to respond to Mr Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u177	Thank you, Speaker! Now we are focusing on this dimensional issue, and this is a real shame, because care for the elderly is an important issue, and we are raising political points here in one century. This one chapter really doesn't solve anything. It's to turn your back on the other old people. We need care for the elderly in home care, in family care, and the care of the elderly needs to be determined by the measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u178	And a reply to Mr Zyskowicz, who has begun the debate, or indeed has started it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u179	Mr President! I don't know how to name nursing homes where a smaller scale is enough, but apparently there are at least one in Tampere, because Sanna Marin there voted in favour of 0.57. As far as this basic question is concerned, the government has not decided that it, as a separate issue, is to clarify the question of whether or not a nurse is to be incorporated into the law. Instead, it has decided on a broader study, and as I read here, part of this study is the number of staff, knowledge and targeting, as well as the need for experts, also taking into account home care and informal care. So you don't have to jump on the walls about this. This is what the government has decided. Then, Mr Guzenina, you can read all the other articles and passages of this whole law, but the fact is that you are proposing to add one sentence with one chapter, and that is exactly what is not a sufficient solution. And finally, when I was talking about family supervision, you want to misunderstand that. I mean, when family and old people choose,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u180	The list of speakers, Congressman Rehula.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u181	Mr President! A broad set of things, a lot of things, a lot of points of view. We could use 7 minutes for this historical review, but when the author of the initiative highlighted the 2012 legislation and its statement from the Parliament's counterpart to the then Government's proposal on the old-age service law, I can't help reminding you of the Christmas season of 2014, when 270 million was deducted from the 2015 budget and recorded in the Act. [KristaKuru requests reply ] Third comment: They told me who's the mother of the Old People's Service Act. That's how much I've been awake in biology class that in order to be a mother, you have to have a baby. And that child should then be a child of ten points or nine or eight points. We all know how to do this to each other. This is very easy. But the situation of elderly services in Finland at the moment — I am grateful for it, and there is gratitude for the fact that this debate is taking place in the centre. There's been a Hook Cape along the way. The Hook Cape has reached the Parliament. We have had Turun Kupitta during this parliamentary term. Now we have acutely Pietarsaarta, Joros and a few other places. I ask out loud: why does something have to happen against human dignity, for example, so that this hall actually wakes up to what our elderly services are all about? We are in a situation where we do not need to predict the future to which we are going. At the same time, when we consider the adequacy of the euro, we must be able to ensure that our young people are interested in the work that is currently being done by tens of thousands of women, including men, to the best of their abilities, know-how and skills. It doesn't help if we have some kind of law, even if we have some articles if we go against human dignity. As I said in today's Question Time debate to my fellow Member, Mr Kokaanniemi, who was sitting next to him during Question Time: this world has changed when, in the case of elderly services, there is talk of crimes, offences and things that have been committed against humanity, in violation of human dignity, there is talk of offences. I think it tells a lot more about this state of society than the debate that I have here and the other way around — I am not saying that I am clean here — is going on as if some trick on the third, even if it is bigger, more important to resolve the situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u190	Reply, Chairman of the Committee, Mr Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u191	Mr President! Mr Rehula spoke on very important matters, especially at the end of his speech, when he supported this 0.7 increase in the number of nurses and said that he was in favour of a greater reform, as I am. We're on the move together. But it is good to correct the mistake that occurred at the beginning of that talk. It's a good thing it doesn't hang around. You said that at the end of the last parliamentary term, EUR 300 million was cut from services for the elderly. In fact, not even the euro was cut, not by a single item, not by old-age services, not by anything else. But, Mr Rehula, there were actually measures to control costs in the name of the structural policy programme, and it was then stated that this is a policy and only when savings are made to the municipalities at this time can these savings be made by cutting the distribution of costs in the context of the audit, contrary to what this government has done. This government has cut first and then waited to see if the new direction of the tasks has any effect.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u192	Answers to Mr Guzenina and then to Mr Ruhula.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u193	Mr President! I was delighted to hear Mr Rehula speak. It was clear, it stated the position of the centre, which is the position of the Social Democrats: careability must be taken into account. This commitment to the law of the carer is part of a larger package — a larger package. And you know, Congressman Zyskowicz, what's the bigger package? I know Mr. Rehula knows. He knows because he's been working on the same package as I used to in 2012. The name of that package is the old-age service law, and, if included in it, this nursing qualification, now at last, is the missing piece that is needed there. In addition, there will be more controls, and that is it. Money, too, Congressman Zyskowicz. But in this Chamber, all the other parties — all the other parties — have now expressed a clear position on it, and the only delegation still does not agree to what experts after experts have come out to say,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u194	Mr Guzenina, you asked to speak on behalf of Mr Rehula and, in reply to Mr Rehula, you used the overwhelming majority of your time to address Mr Zyskowicz. This is not the answer, no.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u195	Mr President! On purpose, I did not mention the central government cuts in the municipalities in the last parliamentary term, but they amount to over 6 billion. Over 6 billion were cut during the last parliamentary term. Secondly, Mr Kiuru, the chairman of the committee, I am not going to argue with you about what was done, whether there was a reduction in costs or not. On 4 December 2014, I have the committee's report here before me, and it is no coincidence that this was discussed in the Christmas season because a budget cut was made in advance in connection with the investment in home care. The criteria for institutional care were tightened, home care was invested and clear money was cut off from the municipalities on this basis. We may have a different view of this, but I have a report from the committee, and we have an objection from the opposition back then. I don't quote it, but it's not exactly windy. They cut off the county, that's the goal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u196	I will give Mr Zyskowicz the answer. — Now we go in order, Mr Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u197	Mr President! Representative Guzenina said that reform of the old-age service law was needed and so on. In this bill, which we are now dealing with, you are presenting a new sentence with one new chapter. Instead, the government has launched a broader preparation, and this number of carers is part of this review. The Coalition Party is committed to this review and to this reform work undertaken by the Government, and in due course we will look without prejudice at what will be presented at that stage. So there's no point in changing things now. You are proposing one chapter in one article, that’s it. The government will look at this as a whole, as it is right.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u198	I will give Mr Lindtman a reply and then move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u199	Mr President! As far as these state transfers of municipalities are concerned, the feed farm can dig up the point. If you're so concerned about the decisions taken last season,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u202	When this debate was launched by Mr Rehula in his own speech, and when his name was mentioned several times, I will give him a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u203	Mr President! This state participation debate: we have legislation that you yourself have, by the way, adopted, which talks about cost-effectiveness adjustments. This has been happy for the municipal economy for years: the municipalities have been doing better than in long, long time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u206	Ladies and gentlemen, we will go to the list of speakers for a moment. There are the same representatives who have the actual floor who have asked for a reply. I now give the floor to Mr Salonen, who has been waiting for a long time, to give the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u207	Mr President! As a young student, when I first entered a private service house for the elderly, I was impressed. The beautiful decoration and service culture seemed almost like a paradise for the elderly and the workers of the house. However, piece by piece it became clear that the facade was not the whole truth. I had to struggle internally between the professional ethics of elderly care and the basic rules of business. Helping and helping to make money did not seem to fit the same job description. In the light of the chandeliers, nurses had to fight for their salaries, among other things. Eventually, beautiful sales talks for future residents began to feel empty and their own actions were thus false. I had to go away so I wouldn't stop caring. Now, 20 years later, Finns ask themselves the same question: Can children, the disabled and the elderly do business? The answer is shameful. In recent years, the pressure to provide elderly services has increased even more cost-effectively. There is more efficiency to do with the same resources or with the same amount of smaller ones. Effectiveness does not mean doing the right things, as we see now. As a result of efficiency claims, care providers have been added to the working list to provide care support services while reducing the number of professionals in the field of catering, stimulating and cleaning. Recording targets have increased work on the computer away from customers. When other work has become more, something earlier had to be overlooked or done worse. Planting in wet diapers and giving breakfast at noon is about a battle for survival. In such a unit, the nurse tries to cope with the amount of work she does and the old man fails to take care of her. Well, efficiency is a plus word in money, but it's a negative in quality. The outcome is shocking for everyone. The worst failures have resulted in death, but we must not ignore the insecurity and suffering that have been caused. It is incomprehensible how a nursing home could have been abandoned even completely without an employee between morning and evening shifts. The country seems to have had ghost nurses on duty who have made things look good on paper. In reality, it has caused danger to people. The way in which the management operates reflects the profound indifference of the management, the consequences of which are reflected not only in the level of care, but also in staff’s work sickness. All of this, which has been known for years, was eventually the result of a nationwide noise. I hope that, at the latest, every omission will come up on both the private and the public side. I don't understand appeals not to talk about the industry's problems because of the reputation risk. The debate does not weaken the attractiveness of the sector, but the reality that families, students and employees face every day. I'm sure you'll be interested when you get to do your job well and untiringly. Change is not easy, and there is not just one measure to make things better. However, it does not justify saying that the law does not require minimum standards of care. Since the adoption of the old-age service law, or even before that, it has been quite clear that it is necessary to have a minimum level of regulation in relation to the number of carers to be treated, and now that has to be corrected, immediately. That is why I support this bill. As Members of Parliament, it is our first task to ensure that care homes are subject to legal obligations with binding nursing standards. Strong supervision and criminal sanctions must eradicate all forms of speculation, from ghost nurses to the tying up of memory sufferers and the compromising of the well-being of the elderly. The care work of vulnerable Finns cannot be at the mercy of international investors. At the same time, by addressing the problems of home care for the elderly, we can turn the way towards fair and safe care and valuable old age, and that is what we are looking for. One part of it is a nurse's medal. It must also be said to Mr Zyskowicz, when you say that recording one dimension does not change anything or that it would be wrong in some way: we have already heard from the supervisory authorities that if there are many different variations in the law, then it will be like begging producers not to have to follow it or that we do not have so many clients in need of care, so that we can have less size. That is why there is a clear need to state in the law what is the minimum measure, and there can be no compromise. There are no elderly people in 24-hour care who suffer from the fact that we have a minimum set in law. Older people of the same standard who do not need this dimension will not get into 24 - hour care. That's the reality today. I hope you'll get to know it before you say otherwise.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u208	Mr President! Here the honourable Member knows the services of the elderly and that practice absolutely better than I do and many other Members of Parliament, and that is all I am trying to say. What I am trying to say and I am going to say is that what you are proposing in this initiative is one chapter to add to the law, and what the government is doing is an examination of this whole, which includes the number of carers, taking into account the different factors, including home care. The group has committed itself to this preparation of officials, to working group work, and in due course we will see what will be presented together. When you asked where the institutions with less dimension are going to be, as I have already said: I do not know, but apparently at least in Tampere, because your party's interim chairman, Sanna Marin, voted in favour of 0.57.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u209	To the list of speakers. — Chairman of the Committee, Mr Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u210	Mr President! In today's society, older people are at risk of becoming outlaws. In my opinion, one of the finest principles of Western civilization is that we are able to sum up everything to the essential command to do to another as you would like to be done, but in the care of the elderly, this command does have a rather sad meaning. According to a large Nordic survey last year, as many as 40% of workers working in institutions would not want to receive the care offered by their own unit to the elderly when they were old. Think how sad it is for us to think that we ourselves would not want to be treated by so few people. Forty percent of the professionals say that I personally would not want to be treated like this. However, here in Parliament it is suggested that the same thing can continue. And I find that the most worrying and alarming result. In addition, one third of carers are considering quitting their work. One third already believes that this is no longer the case. In 2012, when the then Ministerial Working Party on Social Affairs and Health became more involved in matters related to nursing, around 10,000 nurses had changed fields. Imagine today, or seven years, that figure is already 30,000. But there's a lot of conversation, and there's no action. Nurses vote with their feet. I believe that these are serious warnings that this current process cannot continue. The Parliamentary Ombudsman has also repeatedly taken a stand in favour of the care of the elderly. The Ombudsman has stated that violations of the fundamental rights of people in the care of the elderly are often motivated by economic choices of value — economic choices. In other words, insufficient financial resources are reflected in the fact that the lack of food, hygiene, changing diapers, rehabilitation, care and outdoor activities are hard to see in everyday life. The shortcomings are very much due to the lack of staff, not to the fact that nurses do not want to treat patients. These harsh conditions have been heard for years, but there is no action. The facts prove that there should be more human factors in Parliament. 2012 was the time of the last government when, together with Mr Guzenina, we were in the ministerial group on social welfare and health policy to discuss all the activities that should be written into the new Act on the Services of the Elderly. Contrary to what has been claimed here in this debate, the allocation margin during that regime was about 600 million, of which the lion's share was used to improve care for the elderly. Unfortunately, then, in these negotiations, nothing has ever been achieved other than a guillotine that, at the end of the reign, if there is one unit that does not meet that 0.7 dimension, then it will be corrected by permanent binding legislation. And it is a great pity to say that the assembly has been making sure for seven years that that guillotine has not snapped on the moon’s day. Therefore, in the care of the elderly, there is no reason to trust that the assembly will run for help. It is a serious question whether we have 4,000 people in care of the elderly to do more of these important tasks, to secure its daily life so that everyone can experience that they are safe. And there is an endless debate here in Parliament about the fact that 4,000 people are not needed, because the point is that there is no need for even three points, that the assembly cannot afford to have one more 200 million in the care of the elderly. That would be the minimum, and then, according to careability, we should extend that 0.7. But I would also like to say that 5% of these units are currently below the 0.5 and only 20%, or one fifth, of them above 0.7. We do not even have a binding 0.5 level of recommendation, so it is easy to be flexible about it. In this respect, I myself have come to the conclusion that the 0.7 dimension must be recorded in the law. From there the nurturing bends upward, i.e. the decimals move upwards, but 0.7 is the minimum. 80% of Finnish units still have a lot of work to do in order to achieve this. I do not think it should be underestimated that everyone in government responsibility is trying to carry their burdens as well as he can. Unfortunately, during this term of government, this burden bearing is summed up in the fact that huge packages of laws have been brought here, 3 billion cuts in social protection, which will be implemented immediately, but when it comes to Ben Zyskowicz's famous claim that just one sentence could not be used to deal with this issue of elderly service, it would actually be a step towards something happening. There's plenty of explanations. Today it became clear that the Coalition Party has also ensured that this good work, which has begun to make a wider change in the care of the elderly in Finland, has been brought to an end, because it does not include deciding on a nursing appointment. If the assembly were to be flexible in this care, then the assembly would say what the number is between the numbers. Are you ready to bet more than 0.7 on the lowest scale, that's a big question. But what about the top? I don't think you're gonna get away with that non-binding dimension of 0.5. I think that's an important question. Is the coalition still in favour of ensuring that nothing happens in the government as well?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u211	I think we should take a few speeches here, the same political group. We'll take them again, and then we'll have to go back to the debatt. If there is a long debate after each speech, then the matter will not proceed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u212	Mr President! First of all, I warmly support the bill prepared by Mr Guzenina and I would like to remind you that, during the last period, an old-age service law was drafted and that we were already calling for this staffing measure, but it was not obtained from opposition to the coalition. I would also like to remind you that the staff is — almost identical — very much the quality of care. When we look at the Nordic comparison, we have the least number of nurses in the services of the elderly. Now that this old - age - service law has been discussed today, this government dismantled this old - age service law. It lowered the skills requirements and removed the responsible managers and almost dropped this staffing dimension further. In practice, we have the lowest number of staff and also the lowest level of competence, and synergies are now seen here. These demands of ours have been long-term, and they are still very necessary and important, and somehow I regret the fact that when we constantly come up with these challenges and problems, we do not have the ability here to make decisions and change them. Next, we will discuss this initiative I have prepared on the issue of the right to outdoors. We must remember that we have almost 45,000 people in 24-hour care at the moment. Because of advanced memory disorders and others, most of them are unable to defend their own rights. That's why we need the law to protect them. They need human resources, they need the right to outdoors and so on, because these markets are currently increasingly market-oriented in elderly services. In other words, when it comes to the market, they need stronger regulation to protect them, and that is what we here in Parliament have to do. When we were discussing this issue during Question Time, I would have liked to speak on this particular market. Knowing that these large listed companies have constantly increased their share in this 24 - day care, how can we intervene? After all, the government has offered a solution to this issue, for example. When we consider that many of these companies — including public figures — do not even pay taxes to Finland, it is a very disproportionate situation for public, small businesses and also for us taxpayers who finance these services. I tried to find points in this government social welfare proposal where future county decision-makers could ensure that these companies, who operate in this social welfare market, have to pay their taxes to Finland. With good will, I could not find such records in this presentation. So now that we are talking about one chapter and one word, we could add a word to this. For example, Article 42 of the Act on Freedom of Choice provides for conditions set by the province for service providers. There are resources, access, service chains, the coordination of services and some others, but there is no mention of the publicity of, for example, tax-paying information, which is central to the fact that future provincial decision-makers could demand that these companies pay taxes in Finland as one of the criteria. This is at least a very important question for me in this regard: when we make regulation, we want a human resources measure, we want legal protection for the elderly, so how these markets are being managed here too, so that these big listed companies cannot operate in the way they have just done. In listening to this debate, I would like to remind you that people in 24-hour care are entirely dependent on the help of another person. We must remember that many of them are memory sick, many do not have families and children who would monitor their interests, so I think it is a completely unreasonable argument to let them choose the best services that are appropriate to them, because it is not practically possible for them. On the other hand, when we talk about care, this 0.7 is, as has been pointed out here, a dimension that is capable of providing quality care and also of guaranteeing the fundamental rights of older people. With these fundamental rights, I would point out that, for example, think about this right to outdoors: according to THL studies, half of those in 24-hour care cannot get out even if they want to. Think about this hall: if we were all dependent on the help of other people and half could not get out even if we wanted to, we would need those people, the nurses, so that these fundamental rights would also be fulfilled. I believe that this initiative is extremely worthwhile and important. We, as Social Democrats, will continue to promote this in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u213	Mr President! The failure of the private Esperi Care care company to provide care for the elderly raised the current state of care for the elderly. For years, relatives, carers and municipal councillors have been raising the problems of care for the elderly that are now being discussed at national level. Our concern has been with staff adequacy and the quality of care. There have been misreports and an investigation has been carried out by the supervisory authority. Yet no significant improvements have been made. The breakthrough finally came when Valvira was firmly missing and shut down one of Esperi Care's units. Good care has been flagrantly violated and endangered people's safety and life. The investigation has begun, and all the services of Esper and other care units of the elderly have been brought to light. A number of people are suspected of being killed because of negligence. The opportunities for staff to highlight shortcomings are also important. After all, there are already examples that private nursing homes have laid off nurses who have made reports of incidents. Mr President! Finland should not spend hundreds of millions of euros a year to support speculation and tax evasion, huge fees for business managers and investors. Tax money must be used to hire nurses, doctors, social workers, mental health and other professionals, as they provide concrete services that improve people’s lives. In the same way as customers, including employees who are responsible for caring for people, suffer from profit-making business not only in the care of the elderly but also in services for the disabled, child protection and early childhood education. That is what I want to change. The pursuit of financial profit in these must be banned. As regards early childhood education, I made a legislative initiative on this in a week's time in a referral debate. I find it disgusting to think that multinational investment companies in their eyes are making money for the elderly, children, mental health workers and the disabled. The same investors are behind these. It has now been revealed that the chairman of the Esperi Care nursing company and the Touhula day care chain is the same person. It's the same way of doing things. I am surprised that there is strong support for this within the political right. Mr President! I warmly support Mrs Guzenina's excellent bill. I absolutely want the old-age service law to be amended so that the minimum limit for staffing is set at seven carers per ten. That is why I say this in such a clear language, because the Coalition Party does not understand the decimal figures. Seven nurses per 10 old people are the same thing as 0.7. That means the staff on duty during the day. I am also in favour of a broader update of the old-age service law. Home care must also be strengthened so that nurses are not exhausted by too much daily home visits. The home nurse may be the only human contact the old man expected to have during the day. There's got to be enough time for care and talk. Human beings need human beings. Happy Valentine's Day!
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u214	A small debate, if necessary — and, Mr Zyskowicz, when it is necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u215	Mr President! As a result of the few speeches above, it is still suggested that 0.7 is the minimum to ensure that fundamental rights are realised. For the third time, I say that there is obviously less in Tampere, because there the representative of Parliament, Mrs Marin, voted in favour of 0.57. It was then claimed that the Assembly has prevented this issue of number of carers from being examined. It has not prevented, not the examination of the scale, not the examination of the number, but it is part of this work begun by the government, and the Coalition Party has committed itself to this work, and in time we will see what these experts will say in this regard. Then, finally, that the memory sick and others can't choose. You don't understand or want to understand what I'm trying to say. If the decision is actually taken by the elderly and his/her relatives, the service providers will have to invest in quality in a completely different way than when the municipality is bidding. And no one has to choose if they don't want to.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u216	Mr President! First of all, this Tampere: As you well know, Petteri Orpo’s State Secretary, among others, was driving this cutting of the nurse’s size in Tampere. And this is precisely the example that is why this carer’s size, the minimum size, is needed: [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u217	Mr President! Nurminen has been in a hurry to leave the hall, but when he talked about the taxation of these future operators in relation to the way in which the financial affairs of these future private operators are to be made public, and he had hopes of doing so, I hope that he will read the section on which he himself spoke after the coming Paragraph 59, which has a good distance from the more than ten points required to be a service provider, and they will be required to be public. Secondly, there is the obligation for producers to say things out loud. You should not choose a service provider who does not pay taxes to Finland. And here I am not saying who has the responsibility for it, but it is one part of this whole legislative package in the Freedom of Choice Act. You don't have to pick one. Secondly, I would have said to Mr Nurminen that he could, if only that one chapter would guarantee the quality of the treatment. He drew the similarities. Unfortunately, this is not the case at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u218	Let's get back to the debatt, but let's go on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u219	Mr Ruhula, are you in favour of this 0.7 measure or not? When the opposition is putting it, you say no, that is a bad proposal, because it does not solve the whole problem, but when the centre has taken this same position after we have made this interim issue, it is a responsible dimension, a responsible proposal, because it takes account of everyone else. No one here in the opposition has claimed that a nurseship would solve the whole problem, but it is clear that it will eliminate a large proportion of these abuses. And then, Mr Rehula, I hope that you will correct the misconception you made here about cuts when you argued that cuts had been made during the last parliamentary term. You are well aware that the same report you read states that the committee welcomes the fact that these cuts have not been taken to the budget item. You can fix this misinformation now, can't you?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u220	Madam President! I do not know about incorrect information, I have a report in my hand
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u223	Mr President! Now I'm trying to spell it out as clearly as possible. This binding minimum measure, which we have proposed, is part of a larger whole. None of the opposition has claimed that this alone will resolve. This dimensional issue is not being brought into any vacuum. We have a valid old-age service law for which we must cancel the cuts that the government has made during this term of government. Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Ruhula, do you understand in the same way when it is said 'at least'? Now, in this legislative initiative, the position is Since then,in terms such as ‘level’ or ‘up to’,the three-tier difference,Mr Zyskowicz? We read here that ‘at least 0.7’. If we read ‘even’,it would mean something else,andif we read ‘maximum’,that would mean something else. Now you do not understand what ‘at least’ It ‘at least’ means that care needs to This is the minimum, you cannot go under it; it is hoped to go over when care demands it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u224	Madam President! I don't think there's anyone here from Tampere right now, but I'm sure it's quite strange that the Secretary of State of Finance Orpo has forced the current President of the Demares, Sanna Marin, to vote in favour of the 0.7 in Tampere, when the second option was 0.58. And when I am constantly required here to give examples of institutions with fewer than 0.7, I cannot say them, but apparently there are such in Tampere when it was decided in Tampere that 0.57 would be enough. Then you will not, demarit, answer whether or not it leads to better quality: the fact that the municipality is bidding and choosing the cheapest bidder, the customers are not asked anything, or the kind of arrangement in which customers and their relatives choose if they want to. So try to understand: that system forces us to invest in quality. The current system doesn't force you. In the current system, it's enough that you make the cheapest offer.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u225	Mr President! At a time when a single person can or has to move to a community home, he is not in a position to choose for himself.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u230	Mr President! For measuring and experts: We are talking here about dimensioning as if we know here what is the right dimension, what is the nursing dimension without at all knowing what is being done in the field, how sick the elderly are being treated there, what kind of environment they live in, whether they live in one level, two levels, how much one nurse has there to monitor, whether to treat the bed, whether to treat the hospice. We look at only one number without knowing — we are not nurses, we cannot say how to treat a patient, the resident. Yes, it is for medical staff and professionals to assess how much treatment they require. Dimension: How many nurses are needed in one unit depends on how many sick and treated patients there are in each unit. It can be used to estimate the number of nurses needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u231	Madam President! That is exactly what the experts of 30 years ago have estimated, in 87 years I remember, that Marja Vaarama in that article of Helsingin Sanomat said that it had then been evaluated by a group of experts that 0.7 is for those people who are in need of such demanding care. Since then, it has been evaluated quite a number of times. It's always been the same number. This 0.7 is not our invention or even the invention of the previous government. It's an expert evaluation. After that, it may be, as all these papers already say, that there is a requirement for up to one person per customer. It's gonna be the nurturing thing. But today the condition of the elderly is so bad in these 24 - day places that the minimum is 0.7.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u232	Mr President! There's been talk here about the Tampere nurse's composition. Congressman Guzenina, you're from Espoo. In Espoo, we have the situation that the personnel size of nursing homes under the current agreement is 0.58, and we have two nursing homes where it is 0.5. Now, of course, it comes to mind that when this figure and the decimal place are so important to you, which is why you have not taken care of it in your own hometown, then it will be 0.7.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u235	Mr President! When I became an espolian delegate in 2004, it seems that Mr Kauma came in the same year. I was then chairman of the Social Affairs and Health Board and I was able to work hard at that time — in the opposition we were, that is to say, in Espoo the coalition is a power party, there was then an even greater party than today — and we, the smaller parties, were able to move forward despite opposition to the coalition, the fact that in the criteria, the competitive criteria, the quality of care was 60 % and the price 40. It was a huge achievement, which was then cancelled by the coalition as a austerity measure. Don't tell me I haven't tried to handle these things in my hometown. Yes, I am, and you know it. I have also been a budgetary negotiator over and over these years, and over these years, from one budgetary negotiation to the next, the SDP, the demars, we have proposed more money in each budget negotiation for the care of the elderly, both for home care and institutional care. We have also suggested that we should have more facilities because there is at home at the moment
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u236	A minute and a half isn't a minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u237	Mr President! In this speech by Mrs Guzenina, I have to say that the Social Affairs and Health Committee has been demarried for at least two periods. At the moment it is headed by the Greens, but there the SDP has played a very significant role in the panel...
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u240	Mr President! In this debate, it really does come to this all the time that it is stated that this one issue does not solve everything. Well, it doesn't solve everything, but it's a huge improvement — and even this improvement from the right side of the hall is resisted. As far as the municipalities are concerned and how decisions are taken in the municipalities, Mr President, I have at least understood that this is why we are here right now under Mr Guzenina's leadership to propose an amendment to the law, so that after that we do not have to go through in every municipality in the budgetary negotiations how much the Coalition Party wants to do this year. After that, you don't have to go through it every year. Then, here, the representatives referred to these procurements, that which is there, the price or the quality — what happened to the reform of the procurement law when it was discussed in this Chamber? The opposition suggested that more quality should be taken into account. Well, it wasn't for the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u241	Mr President! I repeat what Mr Laiho said earlier, and I would also remind you that there is no opposition in municipal policy, Mr Guzenina, but yet the SDP has been responsible for the services of the elderly in the decision to chair the Social Affairs and Health Committee for many years, and it is under your leadership that these services have been outsourced and that you have not wanted to take care of the personnel allocation which seems to be important to you at least now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u242	Let's go to the list of speakers for a while. We'll be back in a minute. Now there is a list of speakers, and Mr Laiho appears to be the first to be there. Then there are representatives of Kauma, Paatero, Kari, Räsänen, Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u243	Mr President! In recent days, the headlines have been about the problems and practices of care for the elderly, as they are here, and of course the cases of abuse are totally unacceptable. Earlier in the autumn, the problems of child protection and care for children placed in institutions were highlighted, and there have also been many problems with disability services as a result of competitive tendering. Currently, there are almost 300 municipalities or joint municipal authorities providing social and health care services, and the provision of services as a purchasing service is demanding and requires competence, requires competence in contractual technical information and procurement skills. And it also requires monitoring that these services are carried out as they have been intended in the agreements and that any sanctions imposed on them are actually used. There has clearly been incompetence and caution on the public side. It must be remembered that if some services are provided, they must also be monitored. Yes, this is the main responsibility of the municipalities for what they buy. If, of course, there is something quite different about this: if you buy a plumbing refurbishment at home or in a housing company, then you do not buy the work without monitoring what is being done there. This is, of course, the care of people, but there is also a need for supervision there. [Antti Lindtman’s interlude] After all, we care for the elderly as well as for 24 - hour care, where there are over 50,000 of them, as well as home care, where there are over 60,000 of them, as well as family nurses. The fact is that if we start now with a formula-like dimensioning, regardless of whether we look at the place where that resource is put, it will happen that in part it is too little and in part a little too much. I am not saying that it is certainly not necessary for every elderly person, but because our economy is limited and we have other items for which money is needed, we have to think carefully about where the money is put so that it will benefit these people as much as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u246	Next up, Mr. Kauma. Let us take this list of speakers for a while now and then see if there is still enough. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u247	Mr President! The neglects that have occurred in recent weeks in the care of the elderly across Finland have been shocking to hear. There have been shortcomings on both the public and the private side; that is something we must all admit. If there is any benefit to this debate, it is that these things are now at least coming to light and we can discuss them and what matters are being improved and what we need to do, especially during the next parliamentary term. So far, the recommendation has been 0.5 in these nursing places, and according to Minister Saarikko's speech last week, it has been about 0.65. If this dimensioning in nursing homes were raised to 0.7, there would be a need for about 4,200 additional nurses. Of course, now that there is a shortage of nurses, I am at least concerned about where these nurses can be obtained.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u254	Madam President! At the end of the previous period, there was an agreement that if there was one place where the recommendation was not met, it would be recorded in the law. They were found on the basis of its analysis, but soon four years later it is still not included in the law, even the 0.5. Valvira's Director General told us in Helsingin Sanomas that this fuss is even an excellent thing because they have seen this situation for a long time and with the resources of nine man-years in Valvira, it has actually been impossible to deal with it. Now, the fact that there are cases in the public debate and they say that there will probably be some change in that too is a good thing. When you look at the resources of the avi, there are about 20 in the whole of Finland. I agree that it is good to increase control and the need to increase it, but if we are talking here about not just numbers, neither is control alone. It can’t be that you have to visit the corner of a unit every week. Yes, this more must be based on the fact that, once contracts have been concluded or there is a law, the entities or bodies that organise the activities will also comply. I have already referred to the comments made by THL Marja Vaarama about how she, also in the article of the same Helsingin Sanomat, announces that this has been a 30-year war. In 87 he was first obliged to calculate what would be the correct dimension. It was 0.71. Since then, it is said that politicians have repeatedly commissioned new studies, and every time they have been ignored. And more political pressure has been exerted, even by the dissapointment of the carers defined by the experts, which is in no way wanted to hear from the experts. And so it is not the people who want to move to group homes voluntarily because they do not want to live alone, but the people who meet the criteria need 24 hours a day care. It has also been the lowest level in the recommendations of 0.7 experts, after which, of course, it will be increased as care increases. Increasing training when it comes to staffing is a good idea and I fully support the Minister for Education's idea that we can increase, but we have regional differences. There are currently nurses in some areas, but there may have been more of this concern, which has come to light in this Chamber, that when that work has been so hard, tens of thousands of trained nurses have applied for other tasks. If that job were less challenging, hard, so that it would not be exhausted, then certainly some of these nurses would return, would be doing the work that they really have been trained to do. Sad stories come to us by email, see in the media how nurses tell us that they cannot work contrary to their own ethics, or they cannot, when they are forced to do such tasks on the upper management side, with so much and so little dimension, which they feel is not ethically sustainable, or their own bodies and minds cannot take such work. It has been mentioned here about the role of municipalities, and it is true that a procurement law would be a good instrument here, and it could have been hoped that this government too would have wanted to increase the importance of its quality there. But I am sorry that the municipalities are being blamed because I have tried to keep up with the tasks of the municipalities, and no municipality makes a purchase in such a way that it only declares the price as a criterion, quite definitely not. In all those municipal procurement offers, sufficient staff, appropriate facilities, access to medicines, etc. are also justified, and this same criterion is certainly also the case when these services apply for authorisation from regional government agencies. That licence may not be obtained, but once it has been obtained, after the agreement with the municipality has been concluded, it has been possible to reduce it and it has been thought that no one will monitor it. I disagree with Mrs Zyskowicz that it would be better for only the family or the person who is in these care services to be the overseer. I think it is much more responsible that such a person and someone who knows what its treatment should be more than ‘blackened’, is also a guarantee. Of course, even now family members have been watching and many of them have made these complaints. That is why Valvira is currently full of these complaints, because most of them have been made by their relatives. But then, on the other hand, realism is not in different parts of Finland by choosing someone else instead of one, or if you want a relative to have a relationship close to you, less than a hundred kilometres, there is no choice. Or, as Mäkisalo-Ropponen has told us here, with regard to memory sufferers, who have not really had the ability to choose for a long time, or with regard to the mentally disabled, for these, someone else has to do the criteria and that supervision, and in this case it has been a municipality. And now it is sad that in this future, possibly future, social reform, there is no prior control. It's just post-surveillance surveillance. There are criteria for companies to register when they meet the criteria to be checked ‘on the basis of documents’. That's what it says in the bill. It says in the bill that mainly on the basis of documents. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u255	Let's go on this list for a while. Then let us take some more answers, but now Mr Kari, Mr Mika.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u256	Madam President! With a little sadness, I have listened to this debate when this amount of carer size seems to be such a poison to the assembly and at the same time, as if an antidote is offered to prevent the need for dimensioning, but the relatives do the controls. Of course, I heard that there were other reasons for this, but I am sure that we all know so many loved ones who do not necessarily have relatives, whose guardian is not the next of kin, but rather the authority. You have put forward, and Mr Kaumak has suggested in the past, that the judgments on this under-imposition should be made tougher, that is to say, by means of criminal law, sanctions should be imposed on companies or operators who produce these services at a weak level, but I know — Mr Zyskowicz, you are a lawyer and you must also be familiar with the effectiveness of criminal law — that, at least on the part of the Administrative Committee, in which I am also working, it often comes to the fact that the mere increase in criminal convictions does not lead to more law-abiding, but rather to control and prevention of a variety of colts which, for example, try to make better profits and profits in the health service business by reducing staff. Therefore, two key elements in this repair movement would be that we would get a carer's size, so that the amount and quality of the service would be sufficient, and then the other side would be able to have control at the level of effective control of this activity. Then we would be satisfied with the customers there on the patient side and would not end up in a situation where only and only whips try to control undersized service units. I therefore hope that we will have a joint debate on the way in which this carer dimension will be raised to 0.7 instead of the total enthusiasm of the assembly. The people in the centre here are getting smaller — I hope that the number of speeches will increase, and I would be happy to hear the views of the representatives of the city centre on this need for a nurseship and encouraging contributions to the Government Party's assembly that this correction movement is also needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u257	Mr President! The elderly deserve better care than we can offer them today, and as a very important part of this improvement, it is a question of binding nurseship being written into the law, as is proposed in this bill by Mrs Guzenina. It does not correct all the problems — many other measures are needed — but it is important: the question is that in the future we will have at least enough staff in each unit to provide it to older customers. Mr President! As far as the number of staff is concerned, I am a little surprised at this debate, since, especially in the case of the assembly, the main argument that you are opposed to this binding nurseship is that it increases the number of carers and then where these carers can be obtained. However, if I have understood correctly, I think that you too want to improve the services of the elderly so that we need more staff to work there, so, Mr President, you can ask yourself this question. Or would it perhaps be that when working conditions in these units, whether public or private, are improved, even those with nursing training who have changed careers might go back to doing the work they have to do if the job could be improved? I'm sure it'll help if we have a little more co-workers. As far as this working environment is concerned, of which many health professionals say that they are exhausted under the burden of work, I am not surprised when today I read an article about these explanations by Esperi Care to the supervisory authorities about what had been done there in Ulrika, and what had been done was even a little understated. After all, the operator stated that the Authority should not have listened to the employees because they are unreliable. Therefore, the company states to the supervisory authority that you should not now believe the workers who follow the law to report irregularities and who are accused of being unreliable by the employer. It already tells us quite a bit about what kind of operators they are. Mr President! To this end, when these serious abuses have occurred, they must also have consequences that are equivalent.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u258	The list of speakers continues. Congressman Lindtman, and then we'll have a few debatable remarks.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u259	Mr President! I am pleased that the legislative initiative now under discussion at the initiative of the Socialist Group in Parliament has gained the broad support of the opposition as a whole and also some of the MPs of the government parties. It is finally and finally time to set zero tolerance for the understatement of nurses. When Parliament adopts this bill, the main consequence of this initiative is to put a stop to the under-registration. A zero tolerance is set for it. Since 2007, there has been a lively discussion about the old-age service, and I believe that I am not the only one who believes that Finns in large numbers, elderly people, relatives and nurses, believe that it is time for decision-makers to put a stop to the understatement of nurses. That is what this initiative is about. That is why, in my speech, I am going to go over a few arguments, which is not what this initiative is about — or, more correctly, I am going to break down some of the arguments put forward by Mrs Zyskowicz, which cannot stand a closer examination. Firstly, Mr Zyskowicz's and the Assembly's main argument against this bill, the nurse's dimension, is that one chapter does not solve the whole problem of care for the elderly. Well, has anyone said that? No, it's not. Does the bill state that this bill, this nursing measure, will solve the whole problem of elderly services? That's not what it says. This is a straw doll which, among other things, has been developed by Mrs Zyskowicz and the Assembly to justify what they do not support. In just the same way, examples could be taken from any policy area. Therefore, one measure in itself is quite right: to find out the criminal record of all those who work with children in the event of possible crimes against children, it is the right thing to do. But do I, Mr Zyskowicz, claim that one measure would solve the safety of children throughout Finland? I am not saying, as we are not saying, that this nursing measure will put the whole care of the elderly in order. Or, Mr Zyskowicz, when Petteri Orpo's coalition was the only party that did not know in Yle's poll whether there should be 7850 police officers in Finland, so if, as I hope, the coalition party would come behind this sufficient number of policemen, in exactly the same way, if you do this correction on your line and know in the future what the right number of police officers is, I will not argue or oppose the vote to increase the number of policemen by simply solving Finland's security problems. This argument that one chapter does not solve the whole problem of care for the elderly is an unintelligent argument against this nursing dimension. Secondly, it has been said that older people deserve an individual dimension. Well, is this bill preventing its individual dimension from being realised? No, as in the current state, when it is said, or Mr Zyskowicz has used the term that there is one magic number. We already have one magic number: it's the 0.5 in the quality recommendation. And that doesn't stop you from taking care of yourself. It's about setting someone's lower limit. And just as it is today, as has been said here in several speeches, the average is more than 0.6. Well, that's what it's all about, isn't it? There are different situations. But the question here is that we need a minimum. In our view, the minimum amount of human and valuable care is that there are six nurses in the care home of 28 elderly people. Is it enough for Zyskowicz to have five? We have to get an answer to this. Then perhaps one of the craziest arguments is that this nurseship should not be supported, because, for example, Maria Guzenina and the Social Democrats in Espoo have not achieved a higher level of nursery: in Espoo — an excellent example — where the social democrats of the 75 delegates have 10 delegates.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u262	It took me eight minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u263	Mr President! It is also good at this point in the evening to say that there is a lot of good and high-quality activities in the care of the elderly and the disabled, not to forget this fact either. Unfortunately, however, there are also serious omissions. The violations of human rights that have now been brought up — I think it is all right to use that word, they are violations of human rights — and zero tolerance for inhumane treatment must be imposed. It is not right for older people to be told to urinate in a diaper, to be isolated or to be treated in vain with sedatives or to be bound, as is currently the case. These are human rights violations. Correcting errors in old age and disability services requires more staff and, on the other hand, more professional requirements. The government has also said that it will fix everything. However, the enormous austerity pressures contained in the government's social welfare model are completely inconsistent with the development and improvement of the quality of care and care for the elderly. Digital services do not resolve this contradiction, even though the Minister's box has been told so. I still wonder how the government's social welfare model could fix the situation or improve control with reduced resources. Mr Laiho, as I recall, I hope I do not put these words in the mouth of the wrong person, said that there are no nurses or information about the circumstances in everyday life. Well, I'm a nurse, but I'm also the Chairman of the Memory Federation, and I know exactly what is a good, high-quality, humane and rehabilitative treatment for a memory-diseased person. I regularly visit community homes and talk to nurses, and I know that nurses suffer and are tired of not being able to do their job as well as they would like. There is a huge contradiction between professional identity and reality. It is good to remember that at a time when a person with memory problems gets into a community home or gets into a community home, the condition of good care is 0.7, because then it is already that bad, and sometimes it is even much more than this 0.7. We've been working on it. In the memory union, the criteria for good treatment, and they could help to assess the quality of treatment, and I hope that this criterion will also be introduced to this group here. Because of inhuman working conditions, nurses have moved away from care and care work, and if they were reinstated in their own field, the matter would almost have been solved by it. And if we do not now take corrective measures, that is, relieve the nurses of their workload, the nurses will go to other jobs at an accelerated pace. It is such inhumane work with the small resources and under the circumstances in which it is being done.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u265	Then let's go to these debatts. There are four, now six, who have been asked to speak. Then no more.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u266	Mr President! On Valentine’s Day, I would not have wanted to participate in this intense debate, where the important thing is easily spoken over by others and sometimes the facts are forgotten. The situation is, therefore, that the government has announced that the preparation of the new law has begun, and the Centre has announced that as part of it we are in favour of 0.7 carers. These serious problems, which have been raised, are hardly disputed by anyone, but we now need a good preparation for the large scale of institutional care which the opposition seems to want. After all, the opposition here has repeatedly pointed out the poor drafting of legislation, without background studies and impact assessments, but this is how we are moving. Let us act properly, let the positions announced by the ministries and the majority of the parties in the government prepare a good, new law and believe that the voters will also support this in the forthcoming elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u267	Mr President! This is therefore a referral debate, and the purpose of the referral debate is to give a pass to the committee when, before long, this bill is to be discussed. And there's not a lot of escapades coming out of this gym. I am very pleased that the Central Party seems to be on the same track with the opposition, and I see a lot of good at this. There is now a majority of us, and I believe that with this group we will make improvements. On the other hand, I do not understand why people are constantly trying to come up with explanations as to why this is not possible, and why there is a deliberate misunderstanding of almost everything that is said on this side of the Chamber. That's what I don't understand. You say nurses are impossible to get, the 4,000. However, you have been told that at present 30,000 nurses have applied for work other than their training, 30,000. You're saying we only have one number. No, we have a minimum dimension, which is part of the current Act on services for the elderly, which needs to be clarified, which needs to be improved now. There must be a reversal of the weakenings that have occurred during this reign. And, for example, your representative, Mr Laitinen-Pesola, has publicly admitted this on television. He has said, former Chairman of Tehy, that a mistake has been made here, and this is where the government has made a mistake. He has said this, and I would like you to be able to admit this. Mistakes have been made, confession of mistakes is the beginning of wisdom, and now we have to move on. Old people don't have time to wait. They really, really need a sufficient number of nurses.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u268	These are one-minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u269	Madam President! There have been serious omissions, there has been a reduction in quality. They have been caused by greed, municipal austerity or for whatever reason, they cannot be accepted, and if crimes have been committed, then penalties must also be applied to those who there in the leadership have encouraged people to act contrary to the law if such things are revealed. But I have not received an answer from the demari to the question whether to force these service providers to invest more in quality, whether the municipality is bidding — there are quality criteria involved, as Mr Paatero said, the price criterion is very important, as we all know — whether to force them to invest in quality, or the fact that the province gives patients, practically patients and their families, such a customer voucher and this person himself decides which care facility he goes to. Which option forces you to invest in quality in order to get customers? In this first-mentioned model, the municipality decides and goes where the municipality decides. In the latter model, people make up their own minds, and then, I suppose, it is quite important for these service providers what their reputation among the people is.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u270	Mr President! We clearly agree that the whole package of services for the elderly needs to be put in order and we need, as it were, a total renovation. There seems to be a consensus on this in the Chamber. But at least we disagree with the National Coalition Party on nursing. As part of this overall package, the SDP also wants to be part of the law of carership, the Coalition Party does not want it, because one chapter, fitness and so on. Well, maybe now I should ask what bad would happen to you if it were recorded in the law. You're suggesting that it would prevent the evaluation of fitness. No, it won't. The same article will continue to include an assessment of fitness. You say it is out of home services, so is it that by strengthening home service it is out of 24-hour care? This is not justified. Why don't you just tell me you're not in favour of a nurse's appointment because you think it's too expensive and you want to save by changing the nurse's rating? That would be honest. Who is doing this policy in this Chamber? I'm just asking?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u272	Madam President! Again, this debate repeatedly gives false evidence of future regional and social reform. It is a fundamental mistake to say that the market model comes with the reform of social security. The market model exists here, and if we do not get this reform done, then this situation, in which the municipalities, at an accelerating pace of economic distress, are either directly exposed to competition or, even more so, to total outsourcing in the care of the elderly, will continue. After the regional reform, the whole logic of elderly services changes. The province does not compete, but sets uniform criteria, and it is able to have these services in the same row to provide organisations, small businesses, bigger companies, and that is how a person chooses the place where he goes to care, and if he is not satisfied, he can change the place. You do not want to see this change in logic brought about by the regional and social reform. There is absolutely no point in continuing this debate when you do not get to know the documents and how this is going to change. The market model is here, and this is what we want.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u273	Mr President! Whether or not the current model — which no one is in favour of — is in favour of social reform,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u278	Mr President! Mr Räsänen referred to this Esperi Care — the omissions that have been committed are reprehensible — but in this context I could ask how, through Tradeka, Esperi Care has taken care of this control and dimensioning,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u281	Then, Mr Paatero, and then we will go back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u282	Madam President! I'm glad this came up. First of all: I understand Tradeca froze the whole cooperation, and I understand that there were no such care homes, none. There was no such thing as a 24-hour nursing home in the operation that was even thought of working together, so maybe you should stop this story now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u285	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u286	Madam President! In the last parliamentary term 2011-2015, the central government shares were not actually cut, but there were over 100,000 unemployed in that period, which meant that tax revenue decreased and social expenditure increased, as well as all other municipal expenditure increased quite strongly. Negotiations were conducted, staff were also laid off from social services, care for the elderly in a number of municipalities. There were dozens of crisis municipalities, and there were a lot of municipal mergers due to economic distress. All these measures also resulted in the indebtedness of the local government finances. At the end of 2010, the combined debt of municipalities amounted to EUR 10.6 billion and at the end of 15, EUR 18.1 billion, i.e. during that period, in practice during the reign of Katainen, Stubb, the municipal finances were in debt of EUR 7.5 billion. It is clear that, when the municipalities were in this situation, even though they raised tax rates widely and took various measures to improve efficiency, they also had to cut and weaken their services. The reduction in personnel alone led to this. A large number of municipalities outsourced care for the elderly, which meant that they were being competitive. The determining factor in the competition was the financial distress of the municipality, i.e. on the basis of the price, many municipalities chose the place of care which was the most economically advantageous, and the quality was overshadowed. This is certainly the case with the empires of all the parties, and we are in this situation. In 2015, when Sipilä’s government started, it decided in its programme that no state aid cuts would be made. It also decided that all municipal tax losses will be fully compensated and that any new or extended tasks assigned to municipalities will be fully centralised. I mean, in itself. The Sipilä government froze its local government finances during the previous parliamentary term, so it did not improve but did not weaken either. However, the local government finances were strongly strengthened during this parliamentary term, so that last autumn, when we made a budget report in the Committee on Finance in the municipal and health section, it was stated on page 28 of the report that the local government finances are stronger than for decades. Well, today it has already weakened significantly from it, as the recent data tell us, and it is a rather gloomy time ahead. Tax revenue has increased during this parliamentary term, employment has improved significantly and expenditure growth has been largely halted in municipalities, except now, quite recently, apparently, a turnaround has taken place. What we have ahead of us is a strong increase in the number of older people. I do not remember exactly when the 300,000 new old people will be coming by the year, but there will be more and more hard-to-treat old people. The availability and remuneration of staff are major issues, challenges lie ahead, and when I said here that the local government finances were already becoming more difficult last year, and perhaps this year's difficulties will continue, there will be major problems. This is what got hit by the big social services companies. These multinational or transnational, international companies have bought out small companies, and the concentration is hard. Then comes greed, which has branded this care for the elderly in an unfortunate way, in a completely unreasonable way. It's a disgrace to all of us. Surveillance's out of order, self-monitoring's out of order. The municipality is a contracting party in these cases and is in difficulty in agreeing with its big partner, because if he closes the nursing home or the place of care, the elderly are in the hands of the municipality, however, they must be provided with a place of care. The regional management agencies supervise, but they are under-resourced and Valvira even more as a national overseer. Well, this has happened now that this started in the city of Kristina. There are 27 councilmen, 17 of whom are RKPs. Do we blame the RKP for this situation? Jorois has a problem with a big firm, and in the lowlife, we're told that there's even been six old people dead before the supervisor woke up. So the surveillance's out of order. We have four levels of control, i.e. no one actually does, and this, a good government, needs to be put in place as a matter of urgency. The supervision must be brought together in a strong and effective way, as Mr Arja Juvonen has suggested. Now it is trusted that when the provinces come, if they do, it will solve the problem, but they are largely in the same problems as the municipalities now. Firstly, the financing of the provinces seems to be already under-estimated in principle, meaning that the province will have to look again for places of care with the resources available, and the difficulties will not be eased. Of course, the model is different when the customer chooses, but is there any alternative places in these places, in the city of Kristina or in Jorois or in Alavude, or does the province then show that there is a place for my mother, far from where she came from, where she was born, where she was born? If this happens, it'll be cold. So, unfortunately, I cannot believe that a real solution would be provided by the regional reform. Mr President! Sanctions: in our group statement, we stated that 10% of turnover when rules and agreements and laws are being broken. It's effective. The Prime Minister spoke of this cooperative model,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u287	Madam President! It is a pleasure to be able to speak after Mr Kankaanniemi, because his speech contained a lot of facts which we do not necessarily like to hear, but which, however, told us what the situation in our country is in practice. There have been very serious omissions here. It is true when it has been said that, in certain situations, elderly people have not been treated in a decent way. It is great that these omissions have come up and that this huge debate has arisen because it will lead to improvements. Whether it is the greed of businesses or the greed or other immorality of their leaders, or whether it is the austerity pressures of municipalities, the need to find savings, it is quite clear that what has now been seen and what has now been revealed is by no means acceptable. For example, these companies have earned all the loss of reputation that they have now suffered, and I noticed from somewhere that Attendok's stock has crashed on the Stockholm Stock Exchange. There are certainly other reasons for this, but this loss of reputation has certainly not been good for the company’s course development. Mr Lindtman had noticed that the assembly had changed its position that, if and when there has been negligence and if there has been any crime, appropriate sanctions should be imposed. Congressman Lindtman, I don't know where you've come up with this idea. The ‘We trust Finland’ of the slogan alone has not been able to reach such a The coalition has taken a very strict line on these sanctions, because we are in favour of the rule of law, the punishment of wrongdoers. Minister for Justice of the United States Mr Häkkänen has made this clear, Mr Mykkänen, Minister of the Interior of the United States, has initiated cooperation between the police and supervisors, and Mr Ben Zyskowicz, representative of the United States, in Ben Zyskowicz, last Saturday — I recommend to see — said that if an attempt has been made to gain an unfair economic advantage by providing false information, then we will be close to fraud and this side will also have to be investigated if necessary. Mr Lindtman made a very good speech about that toilet next door, but I still did not get the answer from the demari as to which model makes the service providers invest more in quality: the current model, in which the elderly do not decide themselves, but the municipality decides after the tendering procedure and usually chooses the cheapest tender to understand whether this will force them to invest in quality, where the municipality decides and the elderly go where the municipality decides, or whether the model that the social welfare reform and its freedom of choice is intended to implement is that the province has an obligation to provide the so-called customer voucher service and then the relatives and these elderly decide for themselves where they go. In which model is the service provider forced to invest in quality? The one where it wins the bidding of the municipality with the cheapest offer and receives all the old people paid by the municipality, or in the model in which it must gain the confidence of future customers and their families to ensure that it has such a reputation that they want to come there? But when this freedom of choice is poison to you demars, you will find different reasons why this is not good. Firstly, you say that the remote villages do not have that freedom of choice. It's true, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u288	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u289	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u294	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u295	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u296	Mr President! I feel like this conversation is just sitting there. Many of the elderly, and certainly many of the elderly's relatives, if they have listened to this debate, are probably wondering about these speeches here, the content of which, in many cases, has been an explanation of why it is not possible to tie it to the law, however. And these speeches have now come only from the mouth of the House. They've brought up quite a bunch of straw men. The straw is therefore a diversion: to raise a subject in the debate that does not actually have much to do with the actual issue — that of human resources, that is, the well-being of the elderly — or nothing to do with it. And the thickest straw man, I think, was that the Coalition Party claimed that the demos in Espoo were guilty of failings in the care of the elderly in Espoo. There are indeed 75 members of the Espoo Council, and there are ten of them. Well, you did not accuse the Central Party here — there are no less than three places in the centre — if this logic goes so that the least one is always guilty, because you, as a majority, say that there is a culprit. It is a bit of the same logic when people are bullied in the school yard: that the majority are attacking its weakest. So this same logic, Mr Heikkinen, has the central reason that in Espoo there is not always sufficient staffing. So this was sarcasm. Mr President! We are here now to talk about a very serious matter and now we have to put an end to all-looking explanations as to why the services of the elderly cannot be improved. — And I saw, Mr Heikkinen, when you made this move.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u297	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u298	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u299	Madam Speaker! The two-and-a-half-hour debate has reached the point where colleagues here are telling each other what they are allowed to say. This is very interesting, but at least it shows me that the lunches are over. After all, there are many genres, there is blubbering and talking and passing and changing documents and facts. One possibility would be for us to have this debate as Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, for example, was here. No matter how late we can go through history this evening — I admit that I will also go into history in my speech — or try together to find those solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u300	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u301	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u303	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u304	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u305	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u306	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u307	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u308	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u309	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u310	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u311	Mr President! We have had this important debate for many hours now, and I have listened with an accurate ear. My own experience with care for the elderly is when I have been in Koskela's hospital in the 1970s for a couple of years taking care of the elderly. In our ward there were 40 bed patients and two patients who were able to be in a wheelchair, that is, bed patients 40 and two in a wheelchair. It's a hard three-shift job. Since then, I have been an X-ray nurse for many years and I have been monitoring the situation and, of course, I have been in contact as a Member of Parliament. Elderly care in Finland is currently partly in crisis, it must be noted. Linking staffing to the law, i.e. marking 0.7 to the law, is the content of this bill. I am in favour of this law, just like other Finns and the opposition as a whole. There must be sufficient hands to deal with and a sufficient number of nurses is a prerequisite for this. The quality of care is also guaranteed by the professional competence of the medical staff. It is also important to measure the suitability of the sector by means of aptitude tests. They had already been partially put to an end, but fortunately they will be put back into practice. I already asked the minister about the aptitude tests in 2015. Elderly care also applies to home care and informal care. There is also much room for improvement. They want the elderly to stay home as long as possible. This is what many elderly people want themselves to do, but then there should also be adequate help at home. Families and loved ones can and should take care of their loved ones as far as possible, but today many children, adult children, for example, live far away from their parents, and that is a difficult situation for not necessarily being able to be a family carer, even if they want to. With regard to carers, I could say that in the future we will need much more of them. At the moment, about 350,000 are caring for their loved ones on some level. Only 46,000 of them have an agreement, and they will receive compensation of an average of EUR 440, which is very small. It's a big responsibility, but they want to take care of their loved ones. For years the Finns have been drawing up legal initiatives to tax informal care, and this has also been demanded by the Family Care Association. The family carers' holidays should also be made to work better, and if you are working and want to take care of your family along with them, there is still much to be done to reconcile work and this self-sacrifice. We need to think that society will win a huge economic gain when family carers are able to do their job. Mr President! The nurse's work is responsible, vital. It's bad pay when you're mirroring these things. Parliament and the government must make a policy that provides the right guidelines for remedying this. I know and we know, of course, that Parliament cannot influence the salary — they are others — but we can really set out and steer the guidelines in that direction. Nurses are highly valued, but nursing has been undervalued for years in terms of pay. I therefore hope that there will also be an improvement in the future, and soon. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u312	Mr President! The number of employees, the number of carers, is crucial and has an impact on the daily lives of the elderly and those in care and care. The size of 0.5 employees therefore refers to 15 employees in 30 customer units. For 30 people, this means that there are six nurses on the morning shift, four nurses on the evening shift, and one nurse on the night for 30. So when we talk about dimensioning, these must always be related to these shifts, and in shifts there will then be far more elderly people per nurse than this dimensioning, as it were, implies. And then there will be four nurses on the loose all the time, who will therefore also be counted as part of this dimension. That is why it is crucial for quality to what the ratio of this carer's size is. Therefore, it cannot be said that, for example, a customer voucher would be an easy solution for too low a nursing age. The price of this customer voucher is crucial in terms of quality. So the question is: do you, Mr Zyskowicz, believe that the money for the elderly will rise in your model, for example, in these customer bills? That's where the quality comes from and comes from, what price the customer voucher is, not who chooses and what chooses. Or do you perhaps think that by paying a little more on top of the customer voucher, the customer can choose that quality? Then you have to say: yes, money will certainly provide better quality and more staff if you have the opportunity to pay for it yourself. I am also concerned about this monitoring. The self-monitoring of companies also includes, for example, staff and a sufficient number of units. Ghost nurses, i.e. these nurses who are appointed to the work schedule, who are never meant to come on duty to do old-age work, seem to be a real problem in our country. Yes, I have to ask how the company can be able to control itself if the company consciously puts the individual, the personnel manager or the managers of its own company in the evening shift on the roster of carers, for example. How can such one be able to control himself? No, I can't watch. And when we talk about strengthening control in the area of social security reform, in practice, strengthening control means concentrating supervision. But resources don't grow, resources don't grow. Perhaps it can be thought that knowledge grows from the fact that the personnel are together, and perhaps equality across Finland arises from the fact that there are not so many differences in the different regions then, but that the resources are crucial here too, and they do not, do not increase. Well, then I hope — Mr Zyskowicz did correct his own speech — and I urge you never again to speak of the responsibility for the supervision of the family. I myself have received too many calls, asking those in distress whether it is right for a mother to have this and this situation, or what they should do in this situation. A lot of relatives are in distress when they feel that things are not right, but they cannot be sure of it if a professional claims to be someone else, or if someone else is claimed to be in that unit, they often doubt themselves. And that is why it is a terrible burden to carry a loved one if he should still be responsible for that supervision. For example, in my grandmother’s case, I wondered when she told me in the final stages of her life that she had been treated this way and this way, and I knew that she already had problems with memory, and I always wondered whether it was true what she was talking about, whether it was something she had imagined. I did not have enough information for myself, although I know a lot as a professional in the field, that I could have considered and as if I knew what was actually happening in that unit, so let's not put it on the back of the family. Finally, I would like to say a great deal about the debate that has taken place on what the government has actually agreed to do jointly with regard to the crisis in elderly services. In other words, it really does say that this number of staff is being investigated and that this number of staff is being allocated. But words and wording play a major role in politics, and now I am going to ask about it — and perhaps Mr Heikkinen can open it — what you have actually agreed on. Have these wordings been properly applied here, so that there is now a clear difference in interpretation, that it is not a question of carerisation, but of determining the number of staff at all? I would like to hear an answer to that at the end of this evening.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u313	Thank you, Madam Speaker! Congressman Salonen put a very direct question. As far as I can recall, the Government's proposal on freedom of choice suggests that the value of the customer voucher must, as far as I understand it, be the same as the cost of the corresponding service production in the province. You were talking about these ghost nurses and your own grandmother. As a family and professional in the field, which one of your grandmothers in Rauma would you put in: is there a treatment facility known for having ghost nurses, there are few people there, there are people there, there are people who are neglecting patients, customers, or in a care facility that you know about, you have read online and heard from your acquaintances and other things that there are no ghost nurses, there are real nurses, there are enough of them, there are enough of them, they take good care of the patients? Which would you, as a relative, put your grandmother in this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u314	Madam President! First of all, I would like to comment on the debate on this market model, which the opposition would very much like to raise, that the forthcoming reform of the province and of the social economy would bring it. Esperi Care’s ex-executor Marja Aarnio-Isohanni says in Kauppalehti on 7 November 2017: “The last five to six years of this level of control have, however, been among our growth conductors. The longer it lasts, the better the chance on the private side. We have visited the municipalities strongly to present an alternative. They want to make decisions as long as they still have that decision. That is why uncertainty is good for us.” In other words, the opposition, with all the obstruction of regional and social reform, wants this situation to continue. Mr President! Then on this bill before us to amend the old-age service law on staffing: it is in itself all right and necessary. The centre of my party has also called for an increase in personalisation and a registration of dimensioning rather than a quality recommendation in the law. The social debate in recent weeks and the glaring lack of care for the elderly highlighted this need. It is not acceptable for private profit to take precedence over good care and ethical action, nor is it acceptable that, in the name of profit, the number of staff is considered to be so small that it is already an abuse of the elderly. Every old man needs to feel safe. The family must be able to rely on the quality of care. Today, with older people who are increasingly unfit in 24 hours care, the best guarantee is that there is enough time and well-being for the well-being of every resident. However, in order to improve the level of care for the elderly, this bill is not sufficient. The Elderly Services Act needs a more comprehensive review. I have also noticed that there is a desire in the opposition parties to make a change in the composition of carers already in this parliamentary term during the four remaining parliamentary weeks. So the same forces who have been calling for careful drafting and impact assessments throughout the parliamentary term now, as the elections approach, want to bypass all principles of good lawmaking. You yourself know that this is not how legislation is drafted. Ladies and gentlemen, you maintain this speech only because of the closeness of the elections. This is an ugly con against voters. The amendment of the law requires a careful cost and impact assessment and consultation of the various parties, including the municipalities responsible for basic services. Regrettably, this is a matter of urgency which will deprive the drafting of the law of quality. We should not be able to afford a poorly prepared amendment to the Act on Elderly Services. Madam President! It is estimated that thousands of new nurses will be required to increase the dimension. There's no reserve like this waiting for you. At its worst, a rapid change in the human dimension can mean a shift in the workforce from other care, such as home care, to service housing. This will not solve the staff shortages in the care of the elderly. We need to work on the attractiveness of the industry as a whole. We need more places to study and we need jobs where work can and can be done according to its professional ethics. Mr President! Thus, changing the nurseship alone is not a magic way to guarantee better care for the elderly. The debate on care for the elderly should also take place as a whole, bearing in mind, for example, the development of home care, family care and family care, not to mention all the preventive measures that will make it possible to make older people more able to work for years. There are just no simple solutions to solving complex problems. Mr President! So instead of renewing the broken pieces of law, a sense of the whole is needed. The entire Act on Elderly Services should now be taken into consideration. I am very pleased that the Ministerial Group on Welfare and Health decided at its meeting the other day to start preparing the reform of the Act on Elderly Services. This work is intended to cover the whole set of services for the elderly. This is an important policy. The purpose of the reform is to assess at least the number of staff, the prevention aspects to maintain the functional capacity of older people, the factors involved in ensuring the quality of care, and the coordination of the Elderly Services Act and the Social Welfare Act. The ministerial group also called for extensive preparation of officials across administrative boundaries and for discussion with older people and their relatives in order to take sufficient account of the different aspects of services, health and well-being, such as skills, staff adequacy, different housing solutions, management, procurement and supervision. Mr President! The number of our elderly population will increase very strongly in the coming years. This is a challenge to our society as a whole. Municipalities and joint municipal authorities, hopefully in the future, will be very hard on the economy with elderly services anyway. There are currently 500,000 over 75 years of age in Finland, and in ten years' time that figure will be 800,000. The growth rate is fierce and public finances are under test. At the same time, the dependency ratio in society is deteriorating. I think that there is now a need for a broader vision of the future of elderly services in society as a whole. What are we pursuing, and how is it possible to achieve these goals? The review of the Old Age Services Act provides an excellent opportunity for this debate. Mr President! I therefore call, first and foremost, for comprehensive thinking and careful preparation. It is also in the interest of our growing elderly population.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u315	Let's move on. Let me remind you that today we'll be finished at 10:00. That's the deadline. When Mr. Nurminen was there to ask if his initiative will be moved to the next day, surely this will be the case if he comes in at 10 p.m. But let's see how far this goes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u316	Mr President! Indeed, the state of care for the elderly has given rise to a very valid debate, especially over the last few weeks, when many of the glaring omissions in care facilities have come to light, and it is a good thing that they have come to light. The problems are major, especially in institutions that treat the elderly in poor condition, and it is imperative that legislators address this issue. That is also what this good bill, which is presenting a binding nurseship to be recorded in the law, is for its part aimed at. This Parliament still has time to legislate on this bill, if that is what it wants. Mr President! The quality of care and the adequacy of caring hands must be ensured in both the public and private sectors, and the municipalities must also be given the resources to achieve this. These savings can be applied for, among other things, from the administration and, at the same time, the tax resources used to prepare the social welfare reform would already have employed a large number of carers if the reform had been carried out in a controlled and gradual manner, as originally recorded in the Government Programme. Mr President! A 25-point commitment was made under the leadership of the Minister for Social Services to address the shortcomings in the care of the elderly, which many social partners promised to comply with. However, legislation is also needed so that these promises are actually translated into concrete actions. A binding entry in the old age service law is essential, but the supervision of care institutions must also be stepped up and severe sanctions imposed in the event of non-compliance. Such a sanction could be, among other things, a percentage relative to the turnover of the managing undertaking, as indicated above by Mr Kankaaniemi. Mr President! Recording a nurseship in the law would be a step in the right direction, but, of course, many other measures are needed. It must be ensured, among other things, that the nursing staff included in the nursing qualification are allowed to focus on care and care work, cleaning staff are allowed to do cleaning work and so on. There has now also been a message from us representatives that this is not the case at the moment, and this should also be corrected. Finally, I would like to highlight the role of family carers who are doing important work, which the Finns have long wanted to strengthen, as Mrs Elomaa also pointed out above. Among other things, we have proposed the conversion of informal care support into tax-free income.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u317	Madam President! When reference was made to the local government economy and its good results, the results published yesterday show that two thirds of municipalities are making a negative result, and when you look at averages, if you remove Helsinki, Espoo and Vantaa, where the results are hundreds of millions in surplus, the result may be even harsher. It may not be quite reasonable to seek the guilty, but during the previous government term the central government shares of municipalities and the local government finances have actually been cut, and during this government the figure is EUR 850 million. Some of this has been done because of the weakening of the Act on Elderly Services. The responsible manager was removed and changes were made to the professional qualifications that need to be employed there. Then this decision-making process in the municipalities. This war has indeed led to the fact that, in the case of municipalities, when the trust in this state-run real estate company and three-year leases is so weak, many municipalities want to gain some benefit from the real estate they currently have, and that is why very many municipalities are currently considering putting property on the market because there is a risk that they will be left with lots of empty cubes and squares after that if those provinces with this model were to come and all the real estates were to be transferred to one company and even those municipalities' leases there in the same way. They do not trust this, and for this reason there is this uncertainty. Then I can't wait to say one word about dealing with this mess. I don't know how you could have written such a law for the third time, where you can't secure people's services. That is why this round goes again, again and now for the third time again. This is not the fault of the opposition, it is because the law is written in such a way that it is not able to secure services for people on an equal footing. I understand that this has already been the case twice, and let us see what happens now the third time. Unfortunately, this is the situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u318	Mr President! It is precisely through social change that people's services are guaranteed, when they are currently very fragmented and people are receiving very unequal treatment, and the quality of care is also improved by means of social change, because freedom of choice increases and thereby increases the level of care, the quality to which Mrs Zyskowicz has already referred here several times. Here I would like to correct the point made by Mr Guzenina that all the experts were of the opinion that there was a need for a carer's appointment. This has not been the case, of course, but, during his ministry, in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the legal task force, which was being drawn up by Välimäki — including the esteemed experts Kivelä and Taipale — was unanimous that one chapter should not be included in the law. But on that point we all agree that the old-age service law, although its objectives were good, is too low, too low, little, and we must increase that. I am very pleased that it has now been re-assessed so that the evaluation work can also be carried out on this side of the year, and it is excellent that it takes account of the entire service chain for the elderly, starting with preventive services and rehabilitation for the elderly, because we can contribute to the fact that the institution will be in place as late as possible, if at all. It is also important to consider the elderly in home care, who are really over 60,000. There are many sick elderly people who require much care, and it is important to pay attention to the level of care they receive and to the fact that there are enough caring hands and access to them, because they are still in their own home and there they are not, so to speak, under the eye. Work conditions must be put in order both in 24-hour care and in home care. It is important, therefore, that we make use of the care meter nationally, that we, with the same criteria, can assess the level of care throughout the country and also in the provinces, and that we can give equal care to all those who need it. The care gauge is currently in use, but it is not a national requirement, and it is used in varying degrees, but it is a very good tool for staff. I agree that we need solutions. We do not need to be accused, but specifically solutions that take care of the elderly. Every elderly person must be confident that he will receive human, good-quality and high-quality care when the time comes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u319	I will give you two more speeches in this sitting. They get Zyskowicz and Heikkinen. Anyone else who needs to speak will then remain for the next 24 hours.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u320	Madam President! Now that, in the light of the list of speakers, it seems that the Socialist Group is no longer taking part in the debate, it must be said, Mr Paatero and others, that I certainly did not receive an answer from you as to which model you think the service provider will have to invest more in quality, one where it is enough to win the municipal procurement contest and then the municipality will show all the elderly to the care institution of this service provider, or the model that the government is proposing in the social reform — freedom of choice — in which this old man himself and his relatives ultimately choose the service provider. In my opinion, it is quite obvious that in the latter model these service providers are forced to invest in quality because they want customers there. That is why they exist, and they do not get customers there, if the general view is that there is poor care and that there is not enough care for the elderly to take good care of. If such a reputation is held by such a service provider, it does not get there customers, but if there is such a reputation and reality that there is a well managed person and the service provider works in a way that satisfies customers and their relatives, then more of those customers will be obtained. Then, Madam President, Mr Paatero asked about the war how one cannot write a law that guarantees services for everyone. Apparently, then, for example, we now have such a law in his mind as far as the elderly are concerned. We are still talking about this war many times, and I cannot talk about the ongoing discussion of the Constitutional Committee, but I would nevertheless like to correct the general misunderstanding that the government's laxity or otherwise incompetent legislative work would be the reason why the Constitutional Committee first found 15 paragraphs of non-constitution in the government's proposals and, after they were corrected, 22 new paragraphs of non-constitutional law were found in the government's proposal. It is not because of the government's poor drafting of the law, it is because of the too strict line of interpretation of the Constitution. But I am sure that many more times will come back to this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u321	It is now ten o'clock, but let us take Mr Heikkinen's speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-14-ps-159.u322	Madam President! During the debate on elderly services today and over the last few weeks, self-monitoring has been sought as a special bogeyman for this debate. The opposition has wanted to argue that self-monitoring is something that would replace other controls. This is not really the case, and I feel that understanding of what self-monitoring is is not enough in these discussions. I will read directly on Valvira’s website how they describe self-monitoring in social services: ‘The service provider’s tool to develop and monitor ‘The basic idea of self-monitoring is that a written plan has been drawn up for the operational services to prevent Self-monitoring is based on risk management in the unit, where service processes are assessed from the point of view of quality and customer safety. The aim is to prevent the risks from being realised and to respond to the critical stages of work identified or to issues requiring development in a systematic and rapid manner.” “The monitoring of social and health services focuses The Old Age Services Act introduced an obligation for public service providers to introduce systematic self-monitoring at the beginning of 2015. A similar obligation came to all private social services in 2012. The new Social Welfare Act introduced self-monitoring in all social care services from 1 April 2015. In the past, Valvira has issued to the operating units a provision on the content, preparation and monitoring of the self-monitoring plan, which was updated and entered into force at the beginning of 2015. A functional unit means a functional unit in which the customer is provided with social care services in premises equipped for that purpose or at the customer’s home.’ ‘The own control plan shall be held to Its purpose is to inform the reader about how the unit ensures that the service is implemented in a high-quality and customer-proof manner. The self-monitoring plan also shows how the unit operates when it is established that the service does not, for one reason or another, fulfil its objectives or that customer safety is threatened. The objective of self-monitoring is that the staff constantly evaluates their own operations, consults customers and relatives on issues related to quality and customer safety, and takes customer feedback into account in the development of their operations.” Mr President! I believe that self-monitoring, when it is used, is an excellent continuous tool both in social and health care services other than social services that are at home. I see no harm in our determination to strengthen the importance of self-monitoring in services. It does not in any way eliminate ex ante and ex post controls. I think it is a very good thing that the importance and commitment of self-monitoring is emphasised so that it can be a genuine tool everywhere, in public, private and third sector services. At best, self-monitoring is an active tool that strives for a job to develop the quality of care.
