ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 12 February 2019. In the debate, Katja Hänninen, supported by Johanna Karimäki, has proposed that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u2	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order 4. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 31/2018 vp, it will be decided on the basis of a single reading of the Convention and the reservations made under the Convention, as well as the declarations to be made in the annex to the proposal, and then on the basis of a legislative proposal at second reading. The debate was closed at the meeting on 12 February 2019. In the debate, Mr Myllykoski, supported by Mrs Myller, has raised objections to proposals for statements 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u3	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the proposals for statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u4	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u5	Madam President! Now we are dealing with a government proposal for higher levels of veteran benefits. The proposal proposes that veteran benefits, i.e. the front supplement under the Finnish Military Pensions Act, the additional front supplement, the front supplement under the law on the foreign front supplement and the disability benefit supplement be increased to the extent that the increase in the national pension index has increased the benefits in 2019. The benefits are linked to the national pension index and the index has been frozen for 2019. Without the proposed change, veteran benefits would not be increased. An increase of about 1.2% is now proposed. This proposal therefore proposes an increase in all veteran benefits. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u8	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u9	Madam President! This is an important correction that is now being made to these indices in relation to the front add-on. Thank you to Mr Mattila and also to Parliament, who has responded to this situation. After all, when the index freezes in the same legislation also included these veteran benefits, that small cut came in and it was corrected right from the beginning of the year, as we agreed together, and thank you for that. I also welcome the fact that, during this parliamentary term, it has been agreed jointly that the money for veterans can no longer run out in practice, but at the point when it appears that more money is needed, it has also been claimed. I think it is important that this practice should continue this year as well. In fact, this entry cannot be found now that the government is changing after the elections, and I hope that the new government will make the same correction move right away, that is to say, it will be prepared to increase the budget immediately after the elections. It now appears that spending has increased and that there is an additional budget. Today we had a meeting of the Front Veteran Affairs Council, and recent information tells us that the final evening cry is calling at a rapid pace to our honourable citizens. In mid-January, there were 10326 veterans of our wars and 1104 invalids. The average age of these honorary citizens has now risen to 94 years. It seems that about a fifth of them on an annual basis will receive that final evening cry and the number will fall very quickly over the next few years, so that by 2021 we are estimated that there will be only over 4,200 veterans and more than 600 of them. So it is right that we take good care of the last man and the last woman of our veterans and their mates. It has also been positive that this year, on 1 January 2019, the disadvantage rate for institutional treatment of the war-qualified was reduced to 10%, and at the same time a decision has been taken to provide veterans with the same services as the war-qualified. I also think it is important for us, as soon as possible, to get rid of this percentage of disability, and in the future we will be able to guarantee these increasingly ageing men and women the same services, because their age is already so high that it alone requires extraordinarily high levels of care and care. But warm thanks to the government of our country and especially to Minister Mattila for the good work he has done here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u10	Do we want to have a debate on this? Apparently. Okay, so let's open the debat. For those of you who wish to make a reply, please stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u11	Mr President! This proposal is indeed the right one, but it will be very late and only after this was discussed several times in Parliament last autumn. When all veterans of our wars today are highly valued and present in public statements, it is not in its appreciation that the government presented in the autumn and in December, after the vote, the Parliament approved that the indexes for the pensions of frontier men should be cut. That wasn't right.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u12	Madam President! It is certainly appropriate that this increase in the level of veteran benefits should now be carried out, in a way such as re-freezing of the index. It's the right thing to do. One might say that this previous solution was a beauty flaw, that it could not be dealt with on the other side of last year, but that is a good thing. Mr President! Yes, we really have to look at the things that are going on, and I do understand that Parliament and the parliamentary parties have all been concerned about ensuring that our honourable citizens, like our elderly people, are taken care of as well as we can, hopefully, in the rest of the world, and this has been reflected in the contributions made by this regime to veteran benefits. The services to be taken home are now at their own level, and the question is often how to handle them with honor. We have many areas and cities, including the City of Kuopio, which have handled these issues excellently, but there are also many municipalities where veteran services have not been managed in order,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u13	Madam President! I would also like to thank you personally for this proposal. This is now going to correct this problem faced by the veterans, which was indeed to come. When the opposition here strongly raised this issue that veteran benefits are also being cut, you withdrew it and you now produce a proposal for a correction, which is a very good thing. But I would like to point out here again when we are talking about the ovals of war and the veterans, the mates of the ovalians and the veterans, the widows and the war widows, and their situation in our society. I ask you, Minister, whether they have the right to receive home-support services, or whether there should be legal correction here too, because there is a great deal to be said about the fact that war widows are not entitled to home-based services. They'd miss them very much. I have also asked a written question about this. I thought you hadn't had time to answer it yet, but I'm sure that answer will arrive soon. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u14	Madam President! It is important that this beauty flaw, to which the representative referred earlier, be corrected. So the benefits are indeed tied to the National Pensions Index, and when the freezing was there, such a mistake occurred, and now it is being corrected. After all, it is not a matter of big money in itself. The sum of money is 60 cents or 1 euro for 60 cents, but the principle here is particularly important. Of course, it is not right for our honourable citizens to be cut in any way in a situation where, as Mr Heinonen said, an increasing number of evening calls are being made. But you have to see the whole picture. I hope that this year, again, by the decision of the next government, the money for veteran services will not stop. Above all, during this government, including with the support of the opposition of course, tens of millions of appropriations have been increased in these matters, and of course this brother-to-brother bill, including the support of the opposition, has been put into effect during this year, from the beginning of November. So we get the same services with the same principles
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u15	Madam President! I am sure we all agree in this Chamber that this correction must now be brought through Parliament as quickly as possible. But we cannot be satisfied that such a mistake is made, nor with the fact that this is part of a larger whole, the freezing of the KEL indices. Not that we're fixing this question for the veterans... This is corrected by the fact that the opposition repeatedly raised this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u20	Mr President! That went so far as to say that in the debate in the Chamber this matter was said before last Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u23	Mr President! Of course, it is very good that this is now being corrected. Mr Heinonen is quite right that much good has also been done this season. I would like to see this work carried out on behalf of veterans and war ombudsmen to continue in such a way as to ensure the quality and quantity of services to be taken home to all those who need them and to remove the handicaps. Then: Congressman Juvonen, you rightly spoke of the status of widows and spouses. This must also be borne in mind and improved. So we cannot yet say that we have everything in place, but that there is plenty of work for all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u24	Mr President! It is unfortunate for our veterans, our honourable citizens, that this surgery for veteran benefits will only be corrected afterwards, with criticism and thanks to criticism. Although the whole matter is a small sum, I would not be talking about cosmetic surgery in this context. [Left: Absolutely not!]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u27	Mr President! As a result of the persistent work of the months last autumn, the government has now finally brought in a proposal to correct this reduction in veteran pensions, and yes, this is a principle, because this whole surgery was a matter of principle, about what values are decided in Finland. In a situation where the economy is growing and employment is rising, it is wrong to even propose cutting the breast dishes of our war veterans' pensions. Mr President! This also opens the debate on the whole policy of this government, which focuses on the basic security of Finns. The economy is growing, employment is rising, we are likely to be at the peak of the cycle — Mr Government, can we not afford to give up on the fourth consecutive cuts in the basic security of ordinary Finns? The economy is growing, employment is rising, and for the fourth time in a row
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u28	Madam President! Today, the Front Veteran Affairs Advisory Board met and this government received a great deal of praise from the organisations there for dealing with veteran affairs, and I would also like to pass them on to Minister Pirkko Mattila. During this term of government, these issues have been taken forward with determination,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u31	Madam President! The Veterans' business is between us. There is no government or opposition in that border, there is a nation that loves a country that respects the work of our generation of veterans. However, I would like to see certain facts of what is being laid down here in Parliament in this debate. Of course, the concept of a beauty flaw does not fit in with this at all, or that beauty flaw has been made several times. In 2016, the government presented a similar cut for 2017, our independence for the Jubilee Year, and it also presented a similar cut for the breast dishes. It is not a mistake of beauty, it is a system error which is going to remain there on the basis of the budget. I hope that this is the last time that we need to discuss this matter in Parliament, and I hope that the Minister will respond to the way in which this beauty flaw, whether in sitats or not, will be permanently removed from Parliament's budgetary processes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u32	Mr President! This is perhaps more of an accident at work in the parliamentary committees during the budgetary procedure. This should have been done there, but technically it didn't work. I'm glad it's taken care of here. Indeed, all parties had their own savings lists, including the SDP. Since the election, they've been forgotten. But indeed, as stated here, much has been done together for veterans during this parliamentary term. And, Mr President, I do not think that they are waiting here for any particular opposition debate now that those matters have been taken care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u33	Mr President! This correction is very necessary, thank you for that. The opposition raised the problem strongly and has now gone to the finish line — thank you, including the opposition. If we look at the situation of veterans in recent decades, we must look in the mirror from many parties at why things have not been done well enough in the past. Just as Heinonen said here, there are only 10,300 of them left and just over 1,000 of them left. And for those who are still among us, there is still much we can do, but for those who are upstairs, things can no longer be fixed. We will also have war orphans in the future, we will have mine cleaners, we will have war widows for which much can still be done, and I hope that all parties will go along with these efforts. In Turku, this has been handled quite well, so that veterans get the services they need. In many municipalities this is still not the case; it needs attention. For Finns, veterans are honorary citizens. We have to do everything we can for them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u34	Madam President! There is certainly no doubt that for every party in this Chamber, veterans are honorary citizens. That is why we have had a good common view that, in a common parliamentary spirit, in a respectful spirit, these things could be promoted, and that is what has been done. I see that, here too, the government, like Mr Ross, has increased and corrected it, and the opposition itself welcomes it. I am pleased to note that. Mr Räsänen here indicated that someone would have talked about plastic surgery when talking about these sums. No, that is not the term we are using, but we were talking specifically as a cosmetic mistake about the fact that this was actually happening, but it has now been corrected. However, the overall picture must be highlighted. We have jointly decided here, among other things, on the brothers-on-the-line bill: front veterans, everyone, will be replaced by housing support services on the same principles as the war electors. For years, this was the goal and demand of war veteran organisations, and now with the support of all parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u35	Mr President! I am glad I did, but this is indeed a question of cancelling the wrong decision of the government. This is about canceling the government surgery. That is what the government proposed, which was what we discussed in this Chamber in December. I am glad that from the opposition we got this into a big debate and therefore this wrong decision will now be withdrawn. The Minister somewhat spared this point in his own presentation, as if this December, when this matter was discussed and voted on, had been wiped out by the Minister’s almanac — but that is how this truth really worked out. But, President-in-Office, this raises just a little more questions about the value base of this government. So now that we have really lived through the years of growth and that growth should belong to everyone, for the fourth time, indeed, an index freeze is being proposed. After all, Sipilä himself admitted that the surgery has now gone too far. I would ask Mr Mattila: would it not also be time to think about the fact that at the same time you have cut the purse of those receiving a small pension four times in a row? That too, is it not?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u36	Madam President! This repair movement is rather an honour movement or a duty movement that we have to take care of. And I agree with the idea that, in a way, this debate does not even have to take place here, but it should be an automatic matter for us, which is done quite voluntarily well and even a little better. After all, we still have to discuss the fact that, in the early autumn of each year, we are running out of money for the care of veterans. And every autumn, there will be a debate here about how this money will be added to it. This, too, should automatically be done within the Ministry's framework so as not to underbudget the money that is being used to treat these great people of ours.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u37	Mr President! Sourdough, said the fox about the locust berries. It can also be said at this point when we look at these increases which have now been made. And when these are merely a correction of what the government has done, in fact, there will be no further or increase for veterans. It's just what should have come before. Mr Mattila, I would like to ask you — when you told me here how much it will cost the state when this is done — how much it will generate in terms of tax revenue for the municipalities and the state. As a general rule, such a small increase — 0.62 cents, 1.63 cents, 1.30 cents — is an increase in the amount of money that, according to our taxation, people are left with less money in hand than before these increases because of the increase in taxation that is more than that increase. How are you gonna stop this?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u38	Then Mr Arhinmäki and then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u39	Madam President! Mr Laukkanen has rightly said that these should come automatically. And that's what they're gonna do. It is a separate decision taken by the government that these increases will not occur. Our legislation assumes that index increases will automatically come and a separate decision will be needed to freeze the indexes, and that separate decision was also taken on these issues by the government in opposition to the opposition. But this government also withdrew its earlier decision that the indices should be frozen when the index went negative. At the time, the index was implemented when it went to the minus side, that is, cut. Madam President! After all these years, I have to ask Minister Mattila: can you say with heart that you have made a good policy towards veterans, pensioners, the sick, the unemployed, when year after year you have made the decision to freeze an index that would otherwise have automatically come to these people?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u41	Then, Minister Mattila's reply, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u42	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank everyone for the debate in the Chamber and for the consensus that we want to promote the veteran issue in the future. Principles, values have been discussed here, and I think that value is also the way we talk. On the other hand, I would also like to point out that this period, this parliamentary term, has really, very much more invested in the services to be taken home than in any other year during the parliamentary term and has also come to this correction of the disadvantage rate, the veterans on the same line. But it is true what representatives of Juvonen, Nylander, Heinonen and Mr Laukkanen pointed out that there was still work to be done for further periods, for further years, until that final evening call. Mr Juvonen, I am not entirely sure whether the question is going to be answered by Minister Saariko or the signatory, then I am sure that it will be clear in that ministry. Mr Tolppanen, you asked about tax revenues, and when I looked at this government proposal, I certainly do not see such an estimate here. Then these other costs have been calculated here. Finally, on the question of government policy: I agree with Mrs Viitanen that this is something that will probably come back to us in a debate other than this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u45	Apparently, they still want to continue the debate for a while. The debate is limited to 45 minutes, we will take a few comments and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u46	Mr President! This government's intention to cut our wars from the front of the veterans at the peak of the economic cycle actually sums up how unfair the government's policy in the various population groups has been. Mr Mattila, you said that you do not want to discuss how your policy treats the various population groups and whether there is social justice in it, but now that, after months of discussion, you are bringing this proposal forward that this can be corrected, the question is: would it not be right to look more closely at the decisions you have taken? The economy is growing, employment is rising, we are living at the peak of the cycle, but for the fourth year in a row the security of students, pensioners and families with children is being cut — for the fourth time in a row.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u47	Mr President! Four years ago, when the government started, the country was on the verge of disaster. The credit rating was falling in more than one company, and it was necessary to seize hard weapons to improve the economy and employment, [EeroHeinäluoto]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u48	Madam President! Minister Mattila, this is your jurisdiction. You cannot go behind the backs of the entire government, but you, as Minister, must be responsible for the basic security that belongs to you. Now there are two key questions: The first is: When the KEL index cuts have not only affected veteran benefits but have they affected all basic security recipients, have you suggested in the government that the KEL index freezes during the rising season should be abolished? Have you made that motion, and who has opposed it? And the second question now is: when you correct — quite rightly, we are all in agreement that this should be corrected for veterans — why did you not in this context bring forward a proposal to dismantle the freezing of the KEL index for all benefits linked to the KEL index? Did you make this motion, and if you did, who opposed it?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u49	Would the Minister like to respond? — Minister Mattila, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u50	Mr President! I'd love to answer that. Mr Lindtman, you said that I do not want to discuss the truth, and now you are using the truth carelessly, but I do not believe that the whole policy of the government is in the debate when one government proposal is being discussed, a slight change, even if it is a major change. I have never denied that index freezing is certainly one of the most painful decisions of this government. It has been done what has been agreed on the framework in the spending limits procedure, and it also gives me a turn to the Ministry of Finance. But as far as the government's confidential discussions are concerned, I will not go through them here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u53	Mr Lindtman, the reply, and then we go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u54	Mr President! With this presentation, after months of discussion, you are now bent on canceling your indexation of the pensions of veterans of our wars. Yes, in this House, in Parliament, it is now appropriate to talk about the whole of these cuts, which were also, or were, targeted at front veterans. And the question is: when the ministries' proposals to the Ministry of Finance are public — they are public documents, they are not confidential, and you cannot conceal them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u57	Minister, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u58	Mr President! We have asked about the proposals, we have asked about the debates, and it is quite certain that I cannot go through confidential discussions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u61	Let's go to the list of speakers. Debat can be opened at a later stage if there is a need for it. Now, first on the list of speakers, Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u62	Mr President! In fact, at the beginning, I will now say, in a somewhat longer formula, that it is, of course, right that this wrong decision should be withdrawn. It is right to respect the veterans of our wars, and it is also good that in this Chamber attention has also been paid to the status of these widows and orphans, which must continue to be improved. I'm sure there's a lot to do. Appreciation for all those who have made a secure society for the knees that come to us. President! That is how much I am going to go to this last debate while the Minister is still here and listening that we are talking here, Minister, about the administrative sector where you are the Minister of State. You have the opportunity to present solutions to the Ministry of Finance and the government as a whole which you feel are good. We have seen four times a situation in which the government has, four times, been cutting off the weakest, cutting basic security, freezing the National Pensions Index, and thus, for example, receiving a small pension,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u63	Madam President! It is important that these basic safety cuts are openly recognised and are also subject to political debate. But I would now like to express my sympathy to Minister Mattila for the fact that I understand that an individual minister is not solely responsible for the government's choices of values. Let us talk specifically about this proposal: in that debate, when I briefly criticise this process, I would now like to thank Mr Mattila for bringing this proposal. This is indeed an important correction, although not a large financial movement, and I believe that, for veterans, our honourable citizens, this is an important recognition that under no circumstances will they be cut off from these veteran benefits. But as such, I think it is appropriate for the debate on the future of basic security and these basic safety cuts to take place, and indeed the whole government is responsible for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u65	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Minister! The Finns of Peru consider it extremely important that veterans be seen and noticed before that evening cry. We believe that everyone who has experienced war is one of the veterans of our wars. There are war orphans, there are children who have lived among the war in the '40s and experienced those feelings when the father does not come or the situation is otherwise frightening and challenging. Minister, I thank you for your reply when I asked about the situation of the war widows and their need for services, because I have indeed understood that they are not entitled to these services to be taken home. Municipalities and joint municipal authorities currently organise services for front veterans to support living at home within the envelope paid by the State Treasury. These services are entitled to the rights of the MPs and are provided for in the Military Injury Act. The voluntary assistants and veteran organizations of the veterans living at home must have been in huge contact with the rest of you, because I too have been asked, and they have asked about the status of the wife, widow and war widow of the war ombudsman in our society. Although the affairs of veterans of our wars have been greatly improved over time, the mates, widows and war widows of our veterans, as well as war orphans and the situation of children of war have been ignored and the need for service has not been answered. I have been contacted that these war widows — there are not many of them left in Finland — live very long miles in rural areas, where voluntary organisations and volunteers work for them and help and take the services home. This is, of course, such a flaw that this should be put right as a matter of urgency. It is good that the war veterans and the veterans are now on the same line and receive services, and in particular that the handicap rate was calculated and they are able to get there for institutional rehabilitation, but it would also be good if these women, the war widows, the mates of the war veterans, who have also earned those services and live there in their homes, were entitled to these services. Indeed, Minister, this is the end of the season, but I hope that you will take this message forward and take it up there. Then there's the institutional services. It is a great thing that the disadvantage rate has been lowered and that veterans have the right to access institutional services, but, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have the problem here that those veterans of our wars are being treated. What we are talking about here is that there are not enough nurses, that care companies have broken the rules and guidelines in a terrible way, that is, the line drawn in the water, the quality recommendation that is not a law — that is guidance, that is a recommendation, that is informative guidance, which unfortunately disappears with all the other papers at the heart of the nursing work. I think it is very important that we legislate on the measurement of care providers and guide them even more rigorously. We'll watch, we'll watch, we'll be watchdogs. We have that great old-age law, but who's the guardian of the old-age law? It is of the utmost importance that we set up such a strict control mechanism that there will be no such negligence and patient damage where people lose their lives, the elderly die of lack of care, and these are now under investigation. This is an unprecedented Finland, and this is not how we treat older people. I think it is extremely important that, when we develop these services, we provide services to veterans, and we also make sure that there are caring hands there. It has nothing to do with the subject itself now, except to remind you that this is what we must do. So the Finns of Peru consider it very important to ensure that there are enough nurses. It is good, in fact, that these increases in veteran benefits are made by 1.2%, but I would like to remind you that there is talk here of an accident at work or of a defect in beauty — and that is where someone exclaimed that why the opposition in the committee did not see this — that it is up to the opposition to make good legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u66	Reply, Congressman Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u67	Mr President! I would like to thank you for the opportunity to say that the committee had a debate at the meeting on what is to be done with regard to these index freezes. The committee also ordered calculations of the way in which the benefits of veterans and war veterans have changed over the years, and in this respect this index issue was on the table. The opposition also protested in this regard. It is now a pity that this beauty flaw has been left behind because of such a small amount of money. It is important that we ensure that people are given reasonable conditions, and
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u68	And the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u69	Mr President! It is touching to see how the opposition has again found a terrible mistake in the way that an indecent government has made. It is true that this mistake in the matter of veterans has now been dealt with and taken care of, but it is worth looking at the overall picture. All veterans receive the service that 10% of invalids receive as a service to be taken home. And this is the big deal, because the veterans of our wars today are certainly all so weak that the home help, the service they get, is the most important thing. From experience I know: in my municipality of Ilomants, where there are still quite a few veterans among us as honorary citizens, they will certainly be taken care of. The opposition is now using the same technology. Ladies and gentlemen, please note the fact that the opposition is working. After you, this country was left in bankruptcy, as the Prime Minister said, when this period began and when he was punched in the face of the Ministry of Finance's papers on where the situation in this country was in the spring of 2005. After all, it was a terrible situation for you. The country was in a state of bankruptcy: the loss of public finances during your parliamentary term, during your term of Finance Minister, EUR 38 billion. And it's from all of us, young people and children, when you were the ones who went and put money away. And then you go down there and judge the people who fix your tracks. Don't you have any kind of rats in it? Is it the fire department's fault we're going to put out the fire, or would it be the pyromaniac's fault? That's what you're gonna have to think about. Congressman Lindtman, I understand that it went to your blood hooves and nerves when you hear truths here. But look at the local economy. In your time, when you were in the government during the last parliamentary term, the local government finances weakened, 7 billion local government finances became in debt, and this is the reason why the municipalities were so deeply in the hole that [The President knocks ] Lifting up has taken up an enormous amount of energy. And today's municipal finances
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u70	Mr President, I was knocking a little earlier. In my opinion, there was a little borderline as to how closely we were no longer able to keep to this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u71	Mr President! Pyromaan means the person who deliberately fires fires. I hope Mr Hoskonen did not accuse or describe anyone in this Chamber as a pyromaniac, even in this area of the economy, because it is a very bad metaphor. It's a very bad metaphor because a pyromaniac ignites
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u74	Ladies and gentlemen! This matter will now be suspended and the proceedings will be resumed at this sitting after the other items of the agenda have been discussed. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, I really hope, not only as regards what Mr Hoskonen has said, but as regards what others have said, that it is important that we stick to the theme, which is more or less what is written in our order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u75	We're going back to item five. So now we will continue to deal with item 5, which has been suspended earlier in this plenary session. The debate will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u76	Mr President! There has never been too much talk about veterans, although today, in previous debates, it felt very bad that these debates, which we had here, do not go to the polls. What I have heard from veterans from all over the world, their financial situation is now beginning to be fairly good, in terms of what we have been able to give. But now the most important thing is that there are hands to care for them and people have time to care for these veterans. Over the past few days, care for the elderly has become strong enough, and so many veterans are now at the age and in the situation in life that they really need them for helping and caring for their hands. Many veterans are currently in a nursing home, and hopefully there will be enough time to be with them — I regret to say that hopefully, for what has recently been known has certainly not been enough time. It was a pity that today, in this Chamber in particular, the representatives of the Social Democrats have been barking at this government in the past, when it came and when it came back, that the situation of the weaker ones would have been weakened. The truth is that the government programme has been implemented almost in its entirety during this parliamentary term. We have achieved great things, and the most important thing to help the whole of society and everyone is that 140,000 people have been employed. That means 140,000 families have taken a big step forward in their lives. And now this social security money has also been used to help other people, more of those who have not been given jobs. As in other matters of care for the elderly, the issue of self-care should now also be brought forward. Each veteran should have a personal nurse who is responsible for ensuring that each veteran is as well as possible. Even then, from this parliamentary term, what has been achieved during this parliamentary term: yes, it is important for many older people that guaranteed pensions have been raised, the lowest maternity allowances, parental allowances have been raised and many other funds have been improved for disadvantaged people. In other words, what the opposition has said about the fact that the weaker people have been constantly weakened and the rich have been helped is certainly not quite as it has been said, but, as a whole, an attempt has been made to help the employment situation in Finland to make money for this society to produce more jobs and more activities, help for all.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u77	Mr President! Of course, we fully support this government proposal, and I hope that it will move forward quickly, and I am sure it will when the elections are approaching and Parliament is about to pause. In the previous debate, Mr Pia Viitanen accused the Finns of four years of cuts in this matter, namely in relation to veteran benefits. Of course, this is not true because we have not been involved in cutting since the beginning of the season. When the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance kicked us out of the government, we have not been taking these decisions since. On the contrary, we have defended the interests of veterans and, among other things, in the section of the Committee on Finance on Municipal and Health, which I chair, when dealing with the section of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, we have fought so hard with regard to the services to be taken home by veterans that there has been a great deal of improvement there, and this must be taken into account. Mr President! In this context, I can't wait to re-emphasise the list of social democrats for 20 March 2015, which is exactly one month before the last parliamentary elections. The Social Democrats say that, at the beginning of the parliamentary term, a decision must be taken immediately on the cuts of EUR 3 billion, an additional one billion in the middle of the parliamentary term, if necessary, on the adjustment by two thirds of the cuts and a third on tax increases, a partial freeze on the indexes of benefits, EUR 800 million. This is where I stop. In this situation of inflation, which we have had, 800 million would have meant at least the same cut in the index-linked benefits for the social democrats as the government has done. So the Social Democrats owe an explanation as to how they would have collected this 800 million by freezing the indexes of benefits. They note that then the majority of the increases would be made in halves and full index increases in pensions, child allowances, income support, unemployment benefit and parental money. No full index increases for veteran benefits. This is the demarine line. It should also be noted that, for example, secondary education, which is something we have been talking about all the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u78	Honorable Speaker! At the end of last year, the Government made a proposal to freeze the National Pensions Index to the level of 2018 and therefore all national Pensions Index-linked benefits remained at the level of 2018, including the guarantee pension. That change is permanent and will not be compensated for in the future. It must be taken into account that in 2018 these same benefits were also frozen, in 2017 they were only cut. In other words, when we were in the government, these benefits were cut off, but now that we have fallen to the opposition for some reason, the government has frozen these benefits for two years. And, in fact, now that we are right here at the top of the upswing, I am a little surprised by this policy. Of course, when the parliamentary term began, it was well understood that Finland was in a very difficult economic situation and that these cuts had to be made. Well, now it must be borne in mind that there must be concern about the overall purchasing power of pensions and their development when these benefits are frozen, given the increasing cost of housing, electricity and mobility. This is also a big question next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u79	Mr President! Mr Vähämäki and Mr Kankaanniemi here very much reviewed the events of this parliamentary term, and it is true that, at the beginning of the parliamentary term, many painful decisions had to be taken in order to bring the economy of this country to its feet in the end. Of course, we still cannot sigh, but hopefully those most painful decisions are behind us now. However, I would like to remind you that when decisions were taken in 2016 on the 2017 state budget, the government put forward a proposal that, in the absence of inflation, expenditure linked to the National Pensions Index would have been reduced by 0.85% across the board. However, it was then found that it would also have meant cutting the front and similar benefits, which the veterans are fully entitled to, and the People's Party of Finland came to the conclusion at that time, I think, in October 2016, that this surgery could not be done. As a member of the Committee on Finance, I was personally involved in the negotiations of the government parties at the time, and the government parties quite rightly said that there should be an allocation for this purpose, that is not to say that the Front Veterans will not be cut off, and that is what happened. The government then withdrew its proposal on that point. As I recall, it was only about EUR 200,000. A very small sum in the state budget, but from a principle point of view it is important that the people who defended us in war did not get cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u80	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 20/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u81	Mr President! The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection dealt with the Waste Act and produced a report on it after obtaining an opinion from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. The aim of the Government proposal is to increase the transparency of the municipal waste management obligation and to promote the waste and recycling markets. We have ambitious recycling targets and we are slightly behind them in relation to what the EU has set for us. And the aim of this is now to speed up and develop this recycling issue. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has made one important change to this point, which raised this threshold of secondary liability from EUR 1000 to EUR 2000. The reason was that we looked at the environmental aspect, at the risk of environmental litter and soiling, and we said that the EUR 2000 limit was better. The second aspect relates to standards and, in particular, to standards for small enterprises. If it had been 1000 euros, it might have meant that even one or a few loads of micro-entrepreneurs would have been driven out of the gate and said that in two weeks come back, report the waste and garbage to the marketplace, and if there is no handler, then you can come back. In such a situation, when in a hurry, an entrepreneur is unlikely to have the time to do so. It complicates business and the risk of these wastes ending up in a ditch or at the end of a forest road is increasing, and that is something the Committee on the Environment did not really want. When this was done and the threshold was raised to EUR 2000, this increase in the standard burden was thereby released from thousands and thousands of companies. These small companies throughout this waste chain seem to represent 6 % of the total turnover. This was a sensible decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u82	Mr President! The amendment to the Waste Act now under discussion follows the amendment approved by Parliament in the spring, which limited the responsibilities and activities of municipal waste companies in the market. I have to say that both this and the main proposal which was here earlier have become very much critical of the committee. This proposal, in particular, has now been regarded by a number of those who have given opinions to the committee as extremely worrying because it increases bureaucracy. This has at least been the opinion of MTK, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, KIVO, the Recycling Power Association and HSY. The proposal should be corrected in such a way that, in the first instance, the use of the information platform should be based mainly on a voluntary basis. The platform should be tested first and the obligation to use should be laid down in stages in accordance with the precautionary principle. A permanent threshold for the use of the platform is necessary but should be increased to at least EUR 10000. The government parties were slightly opposed to this, which means that the committee's report states that the threshold would be EUR 2000. But that is not enough. The problem is also that there is a fear that business customers will not always be accepted as users of municipal waste facilities, and even here the government parties are trying to clarify the matter, but I am not sure about the outcome. It is necessary not to turn customers away from waste stations. It does make it possible for those piles of waste to be found in those forests, and that certainly cannot be a good thing for anyone in any way. The presentation also contains a completely forgotten customer perspective. Like the customer who needs waste management services, the obligation to use the information platform must bring more benefit to the customer than inconvenience and inconvenience. The benefits of the amendment should not be measured solely as a basis for market potential for private waste management companies, as has now been done. However, the number of waste management companies is very small in relation to all companies, so it is quite unusual that national legislation should be introduced from the point of view of one such small group of entrepreneurs, while leaving other entrepreneurs with major problems. In particular, this bureaucracy that they face is a big issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u85	Mr President! As Mrs Myller is well aware, in committee we took a position on this information platform, and the committee specifically stresses that the platform's market place must be very easy to use, almost as easy to use as sending a text message. It certainly does not pose any particular problem for the entrepreneur when the information platform has been created and made available by Motiva. The small companies that have now been freed from this at the EUR 2000 border can operate without any red tape, the easy-to-use information platform. Those who use have access to better recycling, cheaper prices, and they are companies of a size that have sufficient plans, if there is a demolition project or a works project, so that there is a project plan showing what will happen next week or two weeks later, when they are aware of the need to handle waste.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u86	Mr President! Even after this speech, it is not yet clear why this law is actually needed. I understand that it was intended to clarify the point in the waste law that had previously been adopted, which required that disposal be limited to 5% for municipal waste companies. We already know that this is a very serious problem for recycling, for the proper handling of waste, but now that this bureaucratic waste vessel is coming into this, the problem also comes with waste disposal companies. And as I have already said, quite a few organisations have said that this is very bureaucratic and difficult to use.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u87	Mr President! During this parliamentary term, we in the Committee on the Environment and through the Ministry of the Environment have achieved a great deal of good, sensible things. The Waste Act has already been dealt with in the past, and now this one section of the Waste Act was dealt with, for which the Environment Committee had made the following statement: ‘In the context of the amendment of the legislation adopted by the Parliament,the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy,in accordance with the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy,required the Ministry of the Environment to rapidly prepare a proposal from the Government on the e-marketplace for waste and side streams. “ And now we have done this too, and this proposal is just about this. We in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have had a great deal of discussion about what this reasonable limit of secondary liability will be, in this case, 2000 or 10,000. However, we gave up EUR 1000 — originally it was intended that there would be EUR 1000 first and then EUR 2000 after the transitional period. But it is a good thing that we now have the EUR 2000, so that we get the fact that smaller companies, smaller operators, do not have to go along with this. They can continue to use municipal waste management, i.e. as a secondary responsibility through municipal waste management. This bill is indeed necessary. This will clarify this point, that what is the limit and what does this matter of subsidiary liability mean in practice? Recycling issues: Yes, this amendment to the law provides for more recycling. In Finland, far too few goods and products are recycled in their entirety. If, with this market place thing, a little bit could help with this recycling issue, [Riitta Myller’s interlude] In the past, when it came to the fear that waste could be put into the environment, it has, however, been very clearly stated in this law and pointed out that waste must always be received, so that waste must not be released into the environment in the future. Of course, all sensible companies already know, at least two weeks early, that this waste will be delivered within a year for at least EUR 2000. In other words, quite an exceptional situation must be that such a quantity of waste will come very quickly. And then we always have to deal with exceptional situations. This must not, of course, increase bureaucracy. The aim of this parliamentary term has been to reduce all red tape anyway, and quite a bit of red tape has been dismantled, fortunately. This programme, which is now built here, should be very easy to use. And at least what we have been given to understand does not take many minutes to do so during the year. In other words, once every three years, you even need to do something about the whole thing. I'm sure that's what every company has to think about when it comes to waste, so you can spend a few minutes thinking about waste disposal. What I think is a problem is that these entrepreneurs in the outlying region are also forced to go on this journey. After all, the truth is that there are no other competing companies out there that could actually accept this waste. For these entrepreneurs in our region, this does not mean that we need more action and more work to do. But we have to take care of the whole of Finland in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u89	Mr President! To Mrs Myller, when you consider what this is about and why this is being done: This is on the first page of the Government’s proposal, and I read it here: ‘The proposed amendments aim to increase the transparency of the municipal waste management obligation and to promote the functioning of the waste and recycling markets. “ This is a good objective and now we are going in the right direction. Any change in the law, of course, must be followed up and seen that things go in the direction that Parliament has wanted, whether it is the creation of an electronic marketplace or any other activity. To the extent that Article 72, which prohibits littering, is not deleted from the Waste Act. It stays there. It's valid. And what I wish for is more resources for the police, especially for investigating serious environmental crimes. There are major challenges in the field of hidden crime and unfair competition, which relate to waste. There is always a risk of corruption in waste and of polluting the environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u90	Mr President! I think that Mrs Majala's speech has raised a major problem with this legislation, and it is precisely the question of freedom of choice: what freedom do entrepreneurs have to choose where their own waste is to be delivered? We are well aware — as Mrs Maijala said — that these waste businesses do not exist in sparsely populated areas, and yet this law obliges us to always compete for the waste value that may exceed the 2000 limit. A genuine freedom of choice would be for the waste company to choose it — at least up to the 20% that is the exit limit in the directive on the basis of which this waste law has been adopted. Of course, we must assume that waste is handled correctly in a civilised state such as Finland and does not end up in the natural environment, but it also requires that our legislation is one that gives us the opportunity to do the right thing. And, unfortunately, for these very reasons — that certain localities, certain regions and companies of a certain size may find it difficult to find a place for their waste — there may also be situations where there is a temptation that waste will not be properly disposed of. That is not what we want, of course, but it is also up to the legislator to ensure that everything is properly taken into account and that the situation is made easy for entrepreneurs and that carrots are not sticks. And I would like to stress again that, when this government has spoken so much about freedom of choice, it is in this situation that genuine freedom of choice is needed. We do not therefore require that everything should be given to municipal waste management, but that the entrepreneur should be able to choose within 20%.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u91	Honorable Speaker! So the reason for this is that amendments to the Waste Act and the Procurement Act have been made in the past, and now there is a further amendment to this Waste Act that the electronic data platform should be used. This may, of course, make it easier for the owner of the waste and the service providers to meet it, but will it then make it easier for the administrative burden, especially in rural areas, to say so? This performance includes a 14-day waiting period on the platform. If it has not been done, then the waste can be turned from the waste station. The proposal to reject the opposition's joint objection suggests that, as EU legislation obliges Finland to make changes to waste legislation, a comprehensive reform would be carried out in 2020. The opposition is therefore proposing rejection at second reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u92	Mr President! Representative Myller pointed out that different entrepreneurs may be tempted to misplace waste in certain situations. However, when an entrepreneur is considering dumping waste in the wrong places, the company has many other things wrong and wrong and problems. This waste can't really be the only problem with the company. We should find some help in how the situation of these companies can be helped in other ways forward so that things like this can not happen. So what's the garbage? Hopefully, in 10 years' time, this Chamber will no longer talk about waste, but will talk about raw materials, talk about materials that will be used in another way. So the word ‘recycling’ should be unconditionally in all of our nines. Fortunately, we are no longer talking about landfills, even though, 20 years ago, I was in the municipality as secretary of agriculture and the environment, landfills were absolutely absolute, which was supposed to have a landfill in the village. Now, with horror, they think, "Oh, man, what were they thinking back then?" We are still talking about waste — in 10 years' time we will be talking about raw materials and how they will be used, used and used in Finland, i.e. both in Finland and in the neighbouring regions. And then this electronic marketplace. I believe and hope that what this law aims to do will be achieved, that companies will find better places to invest in their waste. If there are certain raw materials that are being supplied for recycling or forwarding, there may well be companies there to receive those that would otherwise not have been aware of by the waste holder. So it is a good thing that this law goes ahead too, but I really will be waiting for the big change in the Waste Act to change the word “waste ” completely away from it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u93	Mr President! Furthermore, what Mr Myller said might give the impression that if there is no company on the market that handles and recycles these waste, then the company, the owner of the waste, is tempted to put these waste in an inappropriate way on the ground. I do not really know where that temptation comes from, because, however, the municipality has secondary responsibility for the waste, that is, if there is no market place, it must then be received by the municipal treatment centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u94	Mr President! Indeed, the primary purpose of this law is to apply specifically for private waste disposal plants and waste companies to receive recycled materials/waste self-sustaining and to dispose of this waste as other waste. But, of course, we must agree that under no circumstances must we get into a situation where waste is found elsewhere than in the places where it belongs and where it is handled properly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u95	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 25/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u96	Mr President! It is a small matter as such, but I am raising this issue of African swine fever. This is certainly no longer a side issue, because it is very easy to import something when you come from Estonia or elsewhere, even if it is food or some other ingredients, from which it is possible to come with swine fever. If you travel to the areas where this African swine fever exists and if it comes to Finland, the spread of swine fever to Finland is a huge loss in agriculture, and at that point you start talking about real money in this house: what to replace and what to do afterwards. So all the measures we can take to prevent the spread of such swine fever-like diseases to Finland are really welcome at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u97	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 31/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u98	Mr President! The lottery law, which entered into force at the beginning of 2002, has now been amended several times, in particular with regard to the various provisions of the law on gambling. In the first phase of the reform of the lottery legislation, gambling communities have merged in the beginning of 2017, two years ago, into the new Veikkaus Oy. In this context, only the most necessary changes were made to the lottery law to combine the gambling activities of three gambling companies. In the context of these legislative changes, the committee has stressed that the prevention and research of gambling risks and the further development of care and the financing of these measures are a key issue for the success of our gambling policy. The Committee has stressed the need for the second phase of the reform of gambling legislation to take place as soon as possible and to concreteise the key objectives of our gambling policy, namely the prevention of gambling disadvantages and other measures to prevent harm. It is proposed that the lottery law should be amended to five points, i.e. cash machines placed in the premises of grocery stores, freight forwarders and all the world's kiosks, can only be played in the future if they are properly identified. Like online gambling, personalised gambling enables the introduction of different mechanisms for managing and monitoring gambling, including in traditional online gambling. The aim is to prevent the handicaps that have just been mentioned, that is, the disadvantages that gambling has been found to cause to some people. According to these arguments, the vending machine is the most important, believe it or not, but the most significant, single type of game that causes problems in Finland. Money-automatic gambling is also causing problems more and more often when played online. However, despite online gambling, the most single way of gambling is still behind gambling problems. At the population level, the adverse effects of gambling can be effectively prevented and reduced by reducing the supply and availability of gambling, or by imposing other restrictions on gambling, as is now being done little. The Committee considers it important that various restrictions can be introduced in stages. The effectiveness of similar restrictions on online gambling via a gaming account to prevent and reduce these gambling handicaps is being monitored at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, according to a study received. Mr President! The Committee notes that effective prevention and reduction of gambling risks will inevitably have an impact on direct gambling returns. The introduction of mandatory authentication in vending machines reduces the proceeds from gambling and the amount of the lottery tax on gambling, as it is estimated that automatic gambling will also decrease towards the future, in line with the objectives of the proposal. The proceeds of gambling are used, as everyone knows, for purposes of general interest. The returns from the gambling business of Veikkaus Oy are of considerable social significance. Veikkaus Oy has accounted for more than EUR 1 billion of revenue for the state in 2017, and the decrease in return, as described above, will have an impact on the functioning of public interest entities and the third sector as the amount of subsidies granted to the output decreases. The committee points out that, according to the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the use of profits for these purposes of general interest is unfortunately not a reason to maintain this system of exclusive rights, but can only be a positive consequence of the policy chosen. The committee considers the proposed regulation necessary for the objectives of Finland's monetary policy and lottery law. Here's what's going on. But, finally, on this follow-up, if possible: the committee notes that the concrete measures required in its previous report on the amendment of the lottery law to prevent harmful gambling are quite inadequate in the proposal. The Committee considers it necessary to monitor the impact of gambling on the prevention and reduction of gambling risks, as recognised. The committee also attaches great importance to the continuation of the reform of the lottery legislation on the basis of previous policies and, inter alia, the ongoing preliminary study in cooperation with key players in the sector. The Committee also stresses that the economic conditions of public interest communities must be secure in the future. Veikkaus Oy’s ability to channel gambling demand into domestic legal and controlled gambling activities must continue to pay attention to the above considerations.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u99	Mr President! I am in favour of the proposed law, because it is very important that the situation of these people with gambling problems should now be seriously addressed. Let us hope that this will help this situation move forward. Earlier in this Chamber, I have taken a legislative initiative to amend section 27 of the lottery law. This is about associations, communities that need money, and, in general, this lottery law is all based on the fact that public benefit communities are somehow given the means to run their activities. At the moment, all the running of lottery operations, all the collecting of money is terribly bureaucratic, terribly complicated, and its control is also heavy, and supervision also requires a lot of manpower and human resources. I have tabled an amendment to the law that associations can make a lot less than EUR 2000 so that there is no need to submit an application for it in advance. I believe that this EUR 2000 is a reasonable limit that normal associations can run and implement, but there is, however, retroactive control here. After all, the situation is that you always have to apply in advance for all the permits formally and correctly and you have to make the accounts. For example, this year I will not be doing election lotterys at all, because it is such an absurdly bureaucratic and heavy rowing thing in its entirety. But now, in future, these ordinary associations could organise the EUR 2000 lottery in such a way that they would simply take care of the paperwork and if questions were asked afterwards, then, for five years, the licensing authorities could ask how all these things have been handled, that is to say, how it would be controlled. So all this kind of rational action in this lottery law would be that resources would really be used for the right things and situations. After all, these people are in such a difficult situation now that their situation means that we have to make some rather heavy regulations, rules, but I think we can still make progress on this. And I hope that my proposal for a lottery law will be included in the next parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u100	Mr President! Since the quick-jump companies understood to spread out in this country, gambling has in a way become limitless, especially if the nature of the game is such that you can start the second round immediately. After all, the Lotto does not meet this starting point, it is one week away until you can take part in the next round. But in these slot machines this, say, there is no delay at all, you can play from morning to night and go to the next store to play. When the rate of interest is quite high in these speed levers that are used to finance this game, and when there is usually another or even a third quick lever available, the problem of gambling addicts, which has expanded in Finland to probably over 10,000, perhaps 50,000, people whose personal income and wealth are no longer sufficient to cope with these gambling debts, will be approached. As a result, there are features in this game system that should be addressed. Ultimately, these gambling addicts will then come to society, and one might say, as has been said in this legislation, that collecting for a public benefit purpose does not make this activity entirely clean. I have nothing against this lottery, but instead of going on to these devices, which are to be played again and again, the situation becomes quite awkward for the parties involved when combined with the use of quick levers. Veikkaus Oyj has paid attention to this issue, but the fact that you should identify yourself is hardly enough, because the identification machine does not necessarily take into account what the current debt situation of the player in question is. Although these fast - paying companies say publicly that they will assess each applicant’s ability to pay, in practice it will not be done at all. The company considers that the risk of a loss of 10 % has to be tolerated: if the interest income on capital is perhaps 40-50 % per year, it can well be tolerated when the result is even after the loss on credit has been deducted from profit, very high. This is a social problem, and this is often the case for people who believe that it would be impossible to increase their wealth in any other way, which is by no means always true: the interest-rate principle does. This Parliament is in progress and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy today had such a legislative proposal, which offers a very inexpensive system for small investors. But for many young people, this continuous system of quick-lease and bet, let me say, is a spiral of destruction where the credit record becomes a negative entry for a long time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u101	Mr President! We really do know that the problem of gambling and of getting into it is a major problem for many families, both personally and humanly, and it is right that every effort should be made to reduce this problem. And as we all know, The exclusivity system of the bet can only be based on the fact that it works effectively to reduce gambling addiction and gambling disadvantages, and a positive side effect may then come from the revenue that currently amounts to about one billion for good purposes. When we talk about gambling addiction and gambling problems, then we can’t just stare at the bet and its games, whether they’re automatic or they’re lottery or they’re sports games, whatever. We have a very difficult situation in that we have a law prohibiting the operation and marketing of foreign gaming companies in Finland and then any of us may be on a regular TV channel that becomes a football match or something like that, to watch, during one advertising break, within 3 minutes, 10 different gaming companies in Finnish to advertise foreign players, likely to be operating in Malta, and to hook young people up to gambling addiction and use of games in violation of Finnish law. And what happens on some major TV channels is also happening on the Internet and on social media, on many other channels, where it is particularly targeted at young people and vulnerable people. The problem here is that we still have shortcomings in this legislation. We know that the activities and marketing of foreign gaming companies are prohibited, but then there is a constant debate as to whether it is the execution and marketing of gambling in Finland when it takes place from Malta, and then even if it takes place in Finnish and Finland as an opportunity to play and as a win paid to Finland, it is still stated that it is not the execution of gambling in Finland. I think it is. In some countries, efforts have been made to curb this active activity by, among other things, blockages that have been prevented by blocking the entry, use, gambling or payment of such gaming sites. In future, we should also find out urgently about the introduction of such opportunities, because that gambling addiction does not come only through the games of Veikkaus or via the automatic games, but through all the gaming activities that are sadly marketed on different sides. The second option is that, according to the law that came into force last summer, we have the opportunity to withdraw the licence from television companies that violate the law repeatedly and despite warnings and prohibitions, for example in the field of gambling marketing. And now that the Committee on Finance's Civil Affairs and Science section has listened to experts from the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, the police administration and so on, it has become clear that more and more must be done to use all the means available under the current legislation to curb the activities of these foreign gambling companies. Little wonders that enough is not done and is not actively enough to get caught. That if during the same commercial break more than 10 different games, casinos or other games are advertised as regular viewing on TV, I wonder, as an ordinary citizen, how long such lawlessness can continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u102	Honorable Speaker! Thank you to the chairman of the Administrative Committee for a good presentation. Here, representatives of Lehti and Uotila went through the matter from the point of view of speed and adverts, and I, for my part, go over this point from the point of view of the game monopoly and its justification. The legitimacy of our gambling monopoly is that the main objective is to prevent and reduce the disadvantages of gambling. Now a few days ago Economics magazine reported on how the Veikkaus Board of Directors had made a decision here before Christmas on how Veikkaus will treat these target customers in the future. There the main target customer was a player who lost more than 700 euros a month, who had to be held — there on the screens had read that hold — and their gaming board was tried to raise, this was also mentioned. These customers lose approximately 193 million annually to Veikkaus. Another type of target customers were those who play a lot of e- casino or e-booking, and it was decided to develop their services. These target customers lose 290 million annually. And then the third type of target customers were these, who were these other online players. They're gonna lose $68 million. There may have been the most worrying line, namely, they were told to inspire them. So, in other words, we have a situation where the legitimacy of our gambling monopoly is to prevent and reduce the disadvantages of gambling. Then, on the other hand, the Veikkaus government — in fact, we also have a few MPs on the board — decides that some of these players need to be stimulated. Of course, this would be nice to have a wider discussion here in the Chamber. Unfortunately, however, there are no such representatives here who are there on the board of Veikkaus. All in all, I would like to thank Mr Lehte, who has made a good point about this world of speed and speed, which is also linked to this gameplay.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u103	Mr President! The previous speech raised some very important points which it was important to raise. A few comments on these: Just how much a player plays or how much a player loses doesn’t necessarily tell you directly about the player’s potential gambling problem. So the question is what is the player’s ability to lose, what is his means of money, whether he will be in debt when he plays whether he will have to compromise on something else in his life in order to be able to play. If such problems arise, it is a gambling problem. Some people can afford to lose more than others. On this question of these foreign gaming companies: The concern is serious in the sense that the gambling handicaps caused by foreign gaming companies are in proportion to the amount of money played in this game rather than in the games of Veikkaus. In other words, there are more disadvantages for foreign companies in relation to how much they are being played at. There's really no easy way to stop it. Such online blockages and others are technically quite easily circumvented if the player wants to circumvent them. But for this bill itself: I welcome the moderate development and modification of the lottery law. I do not think that sudden movements in these matters make much sense. Even on a voluntary basis, regulation has worked quite well. Veikkaus has set out to bring and offer quite widely and comprehensively the instruments of gaming management that have been introduced by players, and it is good to see that identified gaming is taken forward and especially monitored for its effects. However, there are numerous examples abroad that the disadvantages of gambling have not been significantly reduced as a result of this identification. In this context and beyond, I would like to highlight the competitive situation in the gaming market. This proposal does not take much of a position on this, but future amendments to the lottery law would be worth taking a position on. The growth of the gambling market when today comes in practice only online, especially mobile gambling, so in that market It is necessary for the bet, at least and primarily at home, but I believe that the market and the game offering of Veikkaus could also be extended abroad. The fact that the system of exclusive rights will remain is not a matter of course, because ultimately, if the market is lost, it will be lost if competition is not possible. Sooner or later it will lead to the end of this system of exclusive rights. Let us just say that this has happened and let us play licence gambling, and then all the so-called soft means of contributing to the prevention of gambling harm would be lost and this billion-dollar bet-win money, which today goes for many useful purposes, and no one will have to show where such money would be taken for those purposes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u104	Mr President! Mr Uotila dealt with this quite extensively, and I myself have thought about it many times and concluded that marketing, which goes beyond borders, is in practice difficult to control or control or ban altogether. On the other hand, gambling as a debt is the most dangerous thing in the world because it may create a situation that gets out of hand: let’s play one more round with the quickie money, when the next round will bring back all the lost money at once. If you buy a new TV, a laptop or a tangible object with a quick-width loan, you can return it in 30 days, but the money that has gone into gambling cannot be recovered, it must be paid, and if it is debt money, as is very often the case with these gambling addicts, this reduction in the speed levers, let me say, to a suitable instrument for such a purpose that it does not lead to a disaster, should be carried out in such a way that quick-width companies are provided with an interest rate that is approximately equal to the current interest rate of 13 % plus 2 percentage points, in which case the fast-widrants would have to assess the ability to repay the debtor, the applicant for a loan. Now they're practically not doing it. They give you a loan every time you ask, and they only count, as I said before here, the 10% credit loss, and their system works automatically. It must have taken 10 years to take over these quick levers by society, and these people in the industry have always come up with something new. There is going to be a 30% ceiling in the Parliament, but I'm guessing that next thing these fast-start companies will say you'll get a bullet loan for three years, and the annual interest rate will be 30%, with the interest on the interest rate, which, in three years' time, will have increased to over EUR 200 and so on. This is a modern problem that this institution should be able to tackle in such a way that in the future the Finnish people would not be marked with credit loss marks.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u105	Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Nothing more than what I already said when I presented the report, but underlining two of the discussions that have taken place today: In other words, the biggest problem that this really involves is, as Mr Lehti said, the debt-playing and these quick-lease companies. It has taken this problem to the scale class, to the size class where it is now, and if these fast - moving companies were to be brought under control, perhaps there would have been no need for such a presentation that has now been made here. Then another one, of which Mr Mäkelä spoke: It would perhaps be a new model for Veikkaus to think if it is assumed that as a result of this there will no longer be any similar money available in Finland. As has been said, this is worth over a billion dollars a year, and it has been divided not only into prevention of gambling disadvantages but also into Finnish culture, sports life, all of this. There has been money for a good cause: science, art and so forth. This money must be found somewhere, and it would be a completely new way of thinking – which I already told these experts at Veikkaus what Mäkelä told us here – if Veikkaus were to go abroad in the future for that money to support Finnish culture, science and art. But not only thank you, but to Parliament for a wide and rich debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u106	Mr President! A quick comment on those. Representative Journal spoke highly of those different types of games, i.e. whether a game is fast-paced, what kind of game profile is it, how often that game event repeats, how fast you can sink that money. It is of great importance to the formation of these gambling problems, and these games must also be treated differently from the legal point of view. This foreign activity of Veikkaus: After all, Veikkaus has been working with foreign gaming companies for a long time, that is to say, Vikingloto and Eurojackpot. They are international games today, and profits can go to different countries, but now what I was talking about in my speech was that: Veikkaus would extend the opportunity to play as a registered player its own games — as it is itself, as Veikkaus Oy — also for foreign players. That was actually the point of my opening.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u107	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 33/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u108	Mr President! The purpose of the proposal at first reading is to bring electronic publications up to the same reduced VAT rate of 10 % as printed publications as from 1 July 2019. This would mean neutral tax treatment. The addition here is also a separate proposal to reduce the tax rate on the bulk sales of magazines to 10%, i.e. the same as that on subscriptions for newspapers and magazines. This change was made possible by the adoption of a similar extension by the EU Council at Directive level on 6 November 2018, and the Government quickly submitted a proposal to Parliament — that is to say — 13. 31 December 2018. This has been helped by the fact that the Government, in its media policy programme, had already taken the view that the change will take place as soon as the directive allows it. The committee's report is therefore virtually unchanged from the government's proposal. One change of a purely technical nature is that of artists who have already been accepted by Parliament and others. the right to apply for VAT. In practice, however, the committee is proposing the adoption of a government proposal without amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u109	Honorable Speaker! This so-called digital alvi is supported by all parliamentary parties. The price tag is 28 million, of which 10 million are for these magazines and the remaining 18 million for electronic publications. And it has to be said that price elasticity is probably about half of this total reduction. So the assumption is that about half of this 18 million will go to e-publication prices. So hopefully their prices will also decrease slightly and their use will increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u110	Mr President! This presentation is in itself a worthy hand-out to Finnish media companies. This may have the effect of becoming competitive in relation to international Internet giants, which in itself is a desirable development. However, I hope that not all the lobbying in the field of copyright will be involved, and I am very pleased that the Government has maintained its line in these points of the copyright directive and has not taken up what is required of the media sector with regard to these link taxes and others. In other words, Finland's views on this matter are quite reasonable. Now, however, it is not the freedom of the Internet that is now going to be scrapped by means of money being made available to Finnish media companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-13-ps-158.u111	Mr President! I would also like to say for myself that the proposal is certainly to be supported. Like the representative here, for example. Vähämäki pointed out this, after all, many, almost all, parliamentary parties have been driving for a long time. However, I would like to conclude by saying briefly that, to the extent that this reduction in the VAT rate also applies to electronic learning material, if it otherwise fulfils these conditions for magazines and books, or more specifically for books. There has been a great deal of public debate here, including on the free movement of secondary education. Of course, there is a great deal to be said about whether it should be free of charge for all, but in any case material costs are also a very significant part of it, and as we move towards digital learning material and its price downwards, I believe that the costs of secondary studies and other studies can also be reduced very significantly.
