ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u1	On 18 June 2019, Petri Huru, the chief firefighter in Pori, a local nurse who has become deputy to the constituency of Satakunta instead of Laura Huhtasaari, who suspended on 2 July 2019, has presented me with her mandate and started to represent her as of 2 July 2019. I would ask Mr Petri Huru to take his place in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u2	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u3	Congressman Halla-aho.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u4	Mr President! State-owned Post employees' salaries have been threatened to be cut by as much as 30 per cent. At the same time, Posti’s CEO’s earnings are nearly 30 times the Finnish median salary. In the opinion of the Finns Party, it is necessary to re-evaluate the logic of a state-owned company providing public services. The question arises as to whether it is in the full interest of the owner — i.e. the State — that people are not paid for their work and are forced to rely on transfers from the public treasury. It may also be asked how social responsibility can be required of private operators if a state-owned company sets such an example. Firstly, is the government going to cut the remuneration of the management of state companies, secondly, to change the criteria for success on which the directors' fees and bonuses are based, and thirdly, to prevent the wage cuts that are now planned?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u5	Mr President! General guidelines on the remuneration order of state companies are always made at the beginning of the Government term, and now the 2016 policy is being implemented, when the three parties in this Chamber were in the Board of Directors. It defines the general policy on how to organise or arrange fees in a state-owned company. In addition to that, there is of course an opportunity for each company to make that assessment, and yesterday I have already asked the management of Posti to carry out this assessment in September in this one company as regards the remuneration of the management. At the same time, of course, we must think about this position of workers, and my own view is that, in particular, state companies must be vigilant and exemplary in their employment policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u6	I just heard the P button doesn't give me a list of names for one reason or another. I would ask again those who ask the real question to stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u7	Mr President! There is much talk about the employment rate in Finland, but it would be even more important to talk about whether people get along with their wages. The share of part-time and low-paid work is increasing all the time. At the same rate, the number of income and housing support customers and public expenditure are increasing. In labour-intensive sectors such as Posti or the care sector, so-called labour immigration distorts the labour market. The employer can carelessly squat on his employees and lower wages, because even if the workers leave, they can be replaced at any time by cheaper ones. A person from a poor country should take a job on any salary, as it guarantees a residence permit and access to Finnish social security. It is known that jobs are even being sold in the countries of origin. It is grotesque to complain that there are no workers in Finland if wages are trampled down so that they cannot get along. I therefore ask how the government intends to defend the Finnish workforce and prevent the creation of cheap and slave labour markets.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u8	Mr President! Thank you for a good and multidimensional question. The Government Programme contains records of the lack of pay, and this is one of the work of these seven working groups, led by a ministerial group responsible for promoting employment. It is a problem of underpaid employment and, above all, of unprotected foreign workers entering the country, as you have said here, and it must be possible to tackle it. This is often the case under blackmail, such as in the case of these Nepalese housekeepers or restaurant workers, who have been very publicised. That is why the Government Programme's record of trying to find out what kind of sanctions, more severe sanctions, in these situations where health and safety at work and working conditions are flagrantly trampled on and equality is being violated will be addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u9	Mr President! I think that we all understand in this Chamber that the situation in Posti is difficult. The volume of letter mail is falling significantly all the time and, although there is growth on the goods side, there is a very strong competition. It is therefore self-evident that Posti will have to think about his own position and new ways of working. So I understand that. But when it comes to the question that when Posti’s management has to make its own staff commit to a new change and fight for jobs, wages are being raised very sharply, can this be the case? Should it not be the case that when a company is in difficulty, the example itself is being set and we are ready to drop our own wages? The Posti government also realizes that in order to get everything involved, then everyone gives their own when fighting for their own jobs. Is that right?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u10	Mr President! There is no more or less to agree on, which is reasonable and proportionate as to what is the remuneration of the workers and the management. These programmes, which have been used to pay salaries, have been implemented for quite a long time and now, since 2016, some of the new programmes have been carried out also because the idea was to take Postia to the stock exchange. After all, the export to the stock exchange was cancelled. However, all these programs must have such a sentence that says that each year the company's board can estimate how much of them will be implemented for payment. This assessment is, of course, what might have been better thought out now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u11	Mr President! After all, it is a moral hazard when we talk about such rewards and yet pay them. It runs counter to the Finnish sense of justice, and people are surprised how people can be so important that they deserve that kind of reward and salary. It would be fun and good for all of us to know what kind of pay is made up of, what work is, and then what wages and earnings are earned from. Mr President! Prime Minister Rinne pointed out that in the future a postman could look at the windows and also take care of the elderly. We are talking about the Post-Water, and this is the starting point for the debate that you are in trouble with the way you intend to make it when you turn post-Waterers into nurses. In reality, the government programme does not include the amount of money needed for the nursing allowance, which we actually need in Finland. There are millions of people missing. In what way will you resolve this matter? By no means is a mailman.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u12	Mr President! When the situation of Posti is difficult with regard to the condescending postal sector and in a competitive market with many companies in the same market, with different collective agreements, it has also been said with my mouth this week about the need to discuss the future of Posti: do we have some kind of possibility of attaching it to some other tasks, which are socially organised and significant, and how do we have this universal service obligation, which is in relation to the postal law in the care of Minister Marin? It is also written in the government program that this whole should be evaluated. I strongly believe, and let's see what day it is when this kind of team is put on the move.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u13	Mr President! The situation in the postal sector has led to a general discussion of the disproportionate fees paid by the directors. Of course, the most worrying thing is that these state-run companies have such very large distortions. In view of the usual, so - called floor - level worker and then his top management, these pay differentials may be many times greater. It seems incomprehensible that anyone’s work could be so much more valuable than that of another person. Indeed, I hope that these distortions, which are apparently within many of these compensation schemes, will now be clarified by the Minister and will then bring the new proposals here to Parliament and explain how the situation is being improved. Another company that has claimed unethical profits is Veikkaus, where this aggressive marketing has also emerged, and today you have also brought your own views on this issue. In what way will the situation of many thousands of people with gambling problems be addressed in such a way as to: Indeed, the operation of the bet is responsible and is also concerned about these most vulnerable people who are currently in serious trouble with their gambling problems?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u14	Mr President! Indeed, this decision in principle of state ownership control makes the general guidelines for this award, after which companies and company governments will be responsible for the practical operation and the construction of programmes, not the whole parliament or the entire government of the country, nor even the ministerial group on economic policy. With regard to betting, it was necessary to make more elements of accountability after this summer, and today a list of very important performances has been published by the company's decision, which they are taking forward, such as the euro-denominated advertising and the reduction of the various channels — even the closure of some — by practically thousands of slot machines and the speeding up of the law which was here last spring, which made it compulsory to identify slot machines. In addition, reforms are being made to the strategy of Veikkaus and responsibility is also taken into account in the remuneration systems. In other words, if there is more gambling problems, some of the executive salaries will be rawed out.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u15	Mr President! At the beginning of this debate, we started with a reduction in the wages of workers and reference was made to the Post Office. This was already the subject of a debate here yesterday and I am very pleased, as has already been said here, that the Minister is taking up this overall picture and has at the moment blown off the freeze on the salaries of Posti's employees, and then we will look at it in terms of the state's earnings and other matters as well. This is important for the workers. I would now like to ask the Minister about history, although you are, of course, now responsible for the actions of this government: during the last term of government, has the minister or the government parties — the current opposition party — done something to oppose the increase in the bonus schemes for executives or the opposition to the TES for Post employees when wage cuts were imposed?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u16	President! Somehow you would always like to look from now on, but there are certainly critical points about these fees during the last term of government, as we see now, but it may be that there are critical points during the previous term of government. But perhaps noteworthy is the fact that when it 2,300 people were transferred from Posti's employees to the agreement under the Industrial Union, this public debate was not held. It may have been that I should have had it myself, but then there was no such conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u17	Mr President! It's really great that we're talking about lowering Post's wages today. However, this is happening in a number of other sectors, and the problem is very much self-produced. At a time when both the right and the left are calling for work-related immigration and excellence, the reality is that we have immigrants coming, especially in the low-wage sectors. You often hear that well the companies that pay for TES and what is the problem with the Finns — but that is not true; the problems are very widespread, for example in buildings. Equally serious is the gradual reduction of weaker working conditions. The expressions used by the government about labour shortages, the problem of matching and the screaming need to obtain work-related immigration do not differ significantly from those used by the coalition, even though the right-wing interest in cheap labour may be slightly different from that of the government. I would like to ask: does the government really believe that the reason that there are no more Finnish workers cleaning and distributing mail on buildings, for example here in Helsinki, is that we have a labour shortage and a problem of encounters?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u18	Mr President! In my previous speech, I have already told you that the Government Programme is intended to address the issue of underpaid employment and such blackmail-like activities and measures are already on the move. The most serious problem that is revealed in this way is often related to trafficking in human beings, and then we need to find ways to make it easier to register with the authorities than it is today, and then it is often the employment control that works best here. In fact, this government's programme also has a rather ambitious return to the anti-gravity programme, and according to the government programme, it is being examined whether the numbering system you have just mentioned, which has been used in buildings and which has effectively eradicated the informal economy, to other sectors, especially the accommodation and restaurant sectors, would be extended, and that would also help us to control this phenomenon. But at the same time it is clear that it is important to transfer labour immigration to the Ministry of Employment and the Economy from the Ministry of the Interior, as required by the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u19	Mr President! The Centre is very pleased that Mr Paatero, the responsible and responsible Minister for Corporate Governance, has quickly taken up this situation in Posti and has all the support for its work. It is quite clear that when it comes to state-owned companies, i.e. companies owned by taxpayers, by society, the salaries of senior management must, in the opinion of citizens and taxpayers, be at a fair and reasonable level, especially in relation to the situation of the company and, in particular, to the situation of ordinary employees in the company. In the postal sector, as in all companies, especially state-owned companies, staff is the most important resource, and it is great that now the government is obviously also concerned about this. Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister for Corporate Governance: what is the government going to do and what is the Minister for Corporate Governance going to do about ensuring that Posti remains competitive in the future, so that not all letters and packages go to large international companies? I would also like to ask about the situation in Betikkaus now that slot machines are being reduced: It does not happen that all slot machines leave the countryside, small shops for which Veikkaus vending machines are a very important source of income, does it? This does not threaten the situation of the village shops so that there will soon be no Prismos left in the provinces?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u20	Mr President! This competition with the various TES for the same tasks is challenging, and yes, now that the tour started, this The PAU agreement is coming to an end at the end of October, and until then there will be negotiations on what kind of potential then the elements of its collective agreement will be modified in some way to improve its competitiveness. With regard to guesswork, we have only discussed the number today, and we have not yet discussed at all what the division is or where the reduction of the automatics will take place. Perhaps it is honest for you and for all of us to say, however, that insofar as and when all these actions take place in the next few years, it has been estimated that the amount of revenue will be reduced, and then we will consider what the possibilities are — whether or not there will be other means, new kinds of games, more opportunities for revenue, or whether it will be the case that the funds of the organisations will simply run out.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u21	I give the questions to the representatives of Zyskowicz and Myllykoski and the original author of the question to Halla-aho.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u22	Mr President! The salaries and fees of the top management of the post have been completely dismayed among Finns. Many times the Prime Minister's salary is exceeded in Post, Alko, Veikkaus. Is it really so much harder to sell alcohol to Finns than to run this country? The basic problem is, of course, that — and it applies to all state-owned companies, but it applies to other than state-owned companies — that the salaries and incentives of senior managers are decided by other business managers, because the boards are mainly composed of different current and former business managers, and therefore have a common interest that these incentives should be as generous as possible. This requires the owner — in this case the State, in many cases including pension companies — to step up and to keep to the senses and the senses. Now I ask Minister Paatero: in October, when the state renews these policies relating to state companies and also to remuneration, what kind of tightening up are you doing? After all, in practice, every time they have been reformed in the last few years they have been tightened up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u23	Mr President! It is perhaps a little premature at the moment to anticipate what will be decided by us in October. This debate is under way and is still beginning in some sectors, so that we will also meet with various organisations and others in relation to many issues relating to this programme of principles, not just rewards and so on. My own memory of these matters is from there over four years ago, when the issue was already restricted so that the same people are not in other companies as CEO and in the next Board of Directors and in the Third Nomination Committee. Of course, this is one line that can also contain some of the elements, so that the element does not happen, that the guys to the guy raise each other in the companies then raise these fees. That is why it has also been limited in part that the same person cannot be in many companies, at least as chairman of the board of directors, so that this can also be slightly curbed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u24	Mr President! In the very beginning, as the Minister of Ownership said about the last big case, the left-wing coalition of our parliamentary group was strongly opposed to the relocation measure that was taken. It is not a good idea because it has brought nothing good to Finland. But I would like to ask the Minister how it can be that today we are making decisions that have been released from corporate governance so much that we can really reduce employees' salaries so that, at the same time, management salaries are rising. I am sure we have a conflict with the objectives of the results, but is it true that, now that the Minister has worked hard to grasp it and is now looking at it, the workers whose salaries are being reduced will not come into the pocket of the state so that we will have to pay with tax money that too low wages will no longer be able to cope with them? Do you cooperate in a cross-sectoral way with the Minister of Labour and the social side, so that the ministries are guided by the fact that rewards cannot be based on the fact that when results come, people's wages are not enough to live and can still raise bonuses?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u25	Mr President! This issue of responsibility, which was raised today with regard to Betkaus, is related to gambling problems, but this element of responsibility may also mean other responsibility, and it may be justifiable to consider linking it to remuneration in this programme of principles, just like that. In other words, when there are different elements, how to build rewards and programs, I think there can also be issues of responsibility on various issues. I must admit that the Left Alliance was then opposed to this transfer of 2300 people to the collective agreement,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u26	Mr President! The more interesting and more important issue than management fees is the dumping of wages on the employee side. After all, in a market economy, the price of labour depends on demand and supply. If we had a real shortage of labour, the cost of the job would increase. But now, on the contrary, it is falling because the government, through its own decisions, is creating oversupply of labour, especially low-skilled ones. Private people, of course, and understandably try to save on staff costs, if conditions make it possible, and then state companies, such as Posti, justify themselves by competing with private people. Control isn't enough, Minister Harakka. An employee may receive a full salary in accordance with TES, but he may have to pay part of his salary in cash to the person from whom he bought the job in Finland. The government has announced that it is not going to give up considering the availability of low-skilled labour. However, the examination of availability has already been punctured full of holes, especially in the capital region. My question is: how does the government intend to develop a system of access testing? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u27	Mr President! Yes, we have a genuine problem of encounters in many areas and in many areas. There is no way out of this fact. It is contradictory that we have more job vacancies than in the entire history of labour market statistics over a century and yet at the same time we have significant unemployment. We still have the objective of increasing the employment rate, and yes, one way is by making it more efficient, attractive, attracting international experts and the workforce to Finland. My father was a carpenter. I think he's a master, too. This is a genuine need. We have a need to increase Finland’s attractiveness among foreign, international experts. The question of access is and remains: it is an important tool in all countries, perhaps except Sweden, and Canada, for example, which is quite exemplary in its immigration policy, has maintained strict, sensible access testing and scoring to ensure that every job is offered, and this is also our duty.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u28	Next question, Mr Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u29	Mr President! Today is the day for entrepreneurs in Finland. The main national event has just begun in Tampere. We hope that we will agree here that one day will not be enough, but that the conditions for entrepreneurs should be taken care of throughout the year so that entrepreneurs can create jobs and livelihoods and continue to play an important role as a pillar of the welfare state. The Government Programme lacked concrete elements in strengthening the faith of entrepreneurs. There was a concern as to who would ultimately pay for an additional debt-sharing policy, whether to hire people and find a workforce when no more efforts were made to reform the labour market. These are now considered in the midst of a wave of retirement, where the courage to continue is already uncertain in the vicinity of many entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs themselves suggest that jobs and factors — as has already been mentioned here — should meet better if local agreements within the framework of collective agreements were allowed for all companies and if social security were really to be reformed in such a way that work and its implementation would always be worthwhile. Mr Lintilä, Deputy Prime Minister, how does the government react to the serious proposals made by entrepreneurs on the day of the entrepreneur — proposals to raise employment and safeguard the services of the welfare society? Is the government finally prepared to allow local reconciliation in all companies without an obligation to organize?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u30	Mr President! First of all, a very good entrepreneur's day for all entrepreneurs. At present, entrepreneurs are the micro- and small and medium-sized enterprises which create new jobs in Finland, and that is what must be sought for. We have suggested to the various parties that local agreements should be promoted. You know very well, Mr Mykkänen, that we have put in place a working group on employment involving the social partners, and they will certainly also have a part to play in promoting local reconciliation. What are those customs, we also expect them to do. But how we support enterprise: in the future budget we will increase the funding for innovation, we will bring more funding for internationalisation, and one thing that I think is very important is that we will bring job instructors who will do exactly that, could you say, from such things to the lighter version of the kissal system, i.e. to the workplaces to lead these unemployed, because the entrepreneur does not always have time to guide the unemployed to that work — that is to say, important measures for entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u31	Mr President! Thank you for a good, timely, important question. In this context, I would like to point out that employment services, the TE services, are services for employers, jobseekers and services for the unemployed, and that is what this government is going to invest in. You asked for concrete examples. I can tell you two from my own line of work. We are going to introduce a reform of the pay subsidies of the century, which will enable pay subsidies to become a more attractive, genuine tool for entrepreneurs to be employed. And yet, separately, we are preparing for the recruitment aid for self-employed and small micro-entrepreneurs, which would mean that we would dare to hire the first external worker. This is certainly an extremely important threshold for employment that is now being seized. And of course, as I said earlier, employers will be guaranteed a skilled workforce by investing in conversion, recruitment and continuing training on a timely basis, immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u32	I am now asking those representatives who wish to ask supplementary questions, to press the V button and, as you have seen, to stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u33	Mr President! Minister of Finance Lintilä, you mentioned that local agreement is now at the table of the employment instruments of the social partners. In June, you yourself mentioned that all government parties would be prepared for substantial, regrettable cuts if adequate employment measures were not in place. And so now this key proposal, which you yourself have spoken about — making it possible to make local agreements without having to be organised — is at the table of the social partners. I believe that the Minister of Finance, Lintilä, himself knows very well that there is no such solution at that table. We need leadership, we need initiative. In any event, we are now awaiting a list of employment measures which, according to an objective estimate by the Ministry of Finance, will cover the permanent increase of almost EUR 1 billion already envisaged by the government in terms of employment. If we do not get them, we will have to put an intermediate question on the lack of responsible financial management. But what if even the state's financial contributions were made to entrepreneurship and job creation? Minister of Finance Lintilä: why do you intend to accept the use of EUR 1 billion of assets, sales revenue for around 100 different destinations, small improvements?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u34	Questions and answers may last for one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u35	Mr President! Mr Mykkänen, perhaps his so-called “two basket ” has changed some way along the way as to what are the latestrequirements. In other words, there will be very significant investments in terms of growth. [ Arbitrators from the Group of the European People's Party]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u39	Mr President! The Finns of Finland also wish all Finnish hardworking entrepreneurs a good business day, and we encourage everyone to consider becoming an entrepreneur. According to data, there are 34 members of parliament with an entrepreneurial background, of which, according to my information, about half are Finns living in Finland, which means that we are the largest entrepreneur party in Parliament. Many of us have been small entrepreneurs, sole entrepreneurs, and we know and are aware that the small entrepreneurs are today's workers. That small business is hard work, not easy. Now that the government is taking this entrepreneurial question so well that we are talking about making it easier for the first employee to hire, I hope it will be done seriously and not by being mere tinkering. By raising fuel taxes, it affects the profitability of companies, and small entrepreneurs need tax relief. So I ask the government: could you simply not reduce the tax burden on the sole entrepreneur?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u40	Mr President! We have a total tax package coming into the budget line. There will be no specific tax changes for separate entrepreneurs there. So this is precisely the predictability. I remember very well when we went to the House of Regulation, so it was said that now all the conditions for entrepreneurship were gone. We came back, so Finnish Entrepreneurs, for example, said that this is a good government programme. We will reduce the VAT threshold, for example, from 10,000 to 15,000. This will be the case, but any dramatic change in taxation is part of predictability.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u41	Mr President! With reference to the recent comments made by Mr Haraka on these means of employment, it must be pointed out that all these things that you are proposing are those which increase the obligations of others. You are proposing new subsidies and so on. The management of these aids requires an increase in taxes and additional payments. Why not, instead, seek out ways that pay for themselves, such as the 16 measures proposed by the Assembly to improve employment? They are all measures that get new jobs in this country, they pay for themselves, they do not create a new obligation for anyone to finance someone else's job and so on. The whole nation will win, and the government's tax revenue will grow. Why can't these be used?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u44	Mr President! The Finnish labour market is still too rigid because it was built at a time when Finland was a much more closed economy, companies were large, the degree of organisation was high and errors could be corrected, among other things, by exchange rate policy. Today, Finland is an open economy, businesses are small, the degree of organisation has fallen and every political error strikes at SMEs, of which more than 60,000 are internationally active. We still have high unemployment, as has been heard, but our system does not provide skilled labour for companies. Minister Harakka, you mentioned pay subsidies as one of the tools. — Certainly one good tool. Minister Lintilä mentioned the importance of predictability. But growth-oriented companies do not primarily need wage support or business support; they need knowledgeable factors. The problem is burning in several regions, but especially in Ostrobothnia, where the employment rate is higher than in the rest of Finland. How do you respond to this challenge?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u45	Mr President! I agree exactly with Mr Östman. According to a survey carried out for SMEs, the absolute greatest challenge facing businesses at the moment is the acquisition of skilled labour. This situation changed relatively rapidly in the second half of 2017, and this will definitely be one of the priorities the government has. We will certainly come back to that in the budget debate. I am sure that the Minister of Education will be able to respond to this, but we definitely have more to do in the field of vocational education and training and also what we had previously discussed: we need work-related immigration to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u46	Mr President! Mr Östman rightly drew attention to the fact that the message from entrepreneurs in many parts of Finland today concerns the problems of access to skilled labour. If you look at the financial framework for Finnish vocational education and training, you have cut nearly 400 million from 2013 to 2018. This government budget, which is currently being prepared, will see a major change in the direction of completing the path of cuts in education and training and now investing in education and training, both in vocational education and training at a broader level in the second stage and in early childhood education. Some of these efforts are aimed at the adult population, which can also improve the ability of long-term unemployed people to access employment and employment through vocational training.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u47	Mr President! I would also like, on my own behalf and on behalf of our group, to wish you a good business day. The hard-working, long day-long entrepreneurs, especially the self-employed, keep Finland’s wheels running in many respects. Mr President! For many, it would be a relief to be able to hire even the first co-worker, even the first co-worker, but often the risk is too great. The question now is whether together we could reduce the risk. That is why, Mr President, this support for hiring the first employee, which would try to reduce the risk so that the sole entrepreneur who is weighing his neck on me, can have a friend. Would it not be reasonable for all of us to take a little risk? That is why, Mr President, I was a little surprised at this vote and, among other things, at this increase in the lower limit for VAT-free activities. I mean, this last season, it didn't happen. Finnish Entrepreneurs have supported and supported it. Minister, since this increase in the VAT threshold is coming into force, and what do you think is the fact that Finnish entrepreneurs have supported this project?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u48	Mr President! The VAT threshold, as in fact everything about VAT, goes through the EU, which is where we need permission to drop it. It has had strong and broad support. When it comes into force, I'm afraid I don't... We are a little awaiting the EU's agreement on that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u49	Mr President! Last season, 140,000 new jobs were created in Finland mainly for small and medium-sized enterprises — thanks to Finnish, hard-working entrepreneurs. But now the fear is quite great, because this government, which is now sitting in that box, is in the process of increasing the tax burden on labour. This budget, which has now been presented, is increasing the tax burden on labour from hardworking Finns by up to EUR 250 million. But the particular concern, which in fact affects an extremely large number of entrepreneurs, is the significant tightening of the fuel tax that you are planning. 6.5 cents to fuel tax means an additional EUR 8500 per year for one truck. It goes to Finnish food, it goes to Finnish heating, it actually raises all the costs in this country. Mr President, I would like to ask Minister Lintilä: is this an entrepreneurial policy that you want to promote?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u50	Mr President! We are not tightening taxes on income tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u53	I will give the questions to Mr Mattila, Mr Reijonen and the original author of the question, Mr Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u54	Mr President! In terms of Finland's success, the Centre considers it important that jobs and employment enterprises are present throughout the country, up to rural areas in Finland. Yesterday, for the first time, Finnish Food Day was celebrated. For example, the news of the burning of the Brazilian rain forests has surely awakened many justifiably to consider the origin of the food. We need clean and fair domestic food. My question is: What will the government do to ensure that farmers and forestry entrepreneurs can also rely on the future in order to improve the profitability and operating conditions of the sector? For example, can real estate taxation be reformed to ease the tax burden on agriculture?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u55	Which one of the ministers will take? — Minister Leppä.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u56	Mr President! It is indeed two great days in a row, yesterday the Finnish Food Day and today the entrepreneur's day, and these are indeed, as Mr Mattila has said, strictly linked. It is fundamental that we take care of our own food supply, our own food security. And the main and most painful problem we have at the moment is the profitability of primary production, agriculture. For that we have strong records in our government programme. That is what we are working for on that continent of Europe in the context of the reform of the new common agricultural policy, and that is what we are working towards in order to improve a fairer food market. In addition, last season we made progress on the issue of origin marking. We will continue to do this work in the future, in the same direction. Yesterday, among other things, I took this same message to the European Parliament at my own hearing in two different committees, and it was also well received there. There are many things the government is doing to ensure that farmers have a good, bright future for their extremely important profession. It secures for us, as it does for many others.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u57	Mr President! Apprenticeship training has made life easier for many entrepreneurs when they can train people with an apprenticeship. Have you considered what you are going to do with it: is it going to be increased, reduced, or is there going to be anything new about it?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u58	Mr President! Thank you for the question on apprenticeship training. From the point of view of adult students in particular, apprenticeship training provides an important and well-functioning channel to demonstrate its own competence also from the point of view of the education system, so that you can obtain evidence of the skills accumulated during your career. Personally, I see that we currently have the greatest development needs in the field of apprenticeships for young people, where the aim is to find ways and to consider whether the system could be reformed in such a way that it would also be a more effective channel for young people. For example, some vocational institutions in Finland have piloted models where young people first study at a vocational institution for two years and then are in apprenticeship training for the last year. I believe that we should look at models of this kind now that vocational training is also being developed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u59	Mr President! It is great that Parliament has broadly agreed with the theme of the Entrepreneurs' Day and the importance of entrepreneurship. Minister of Finance Lintilä said that entrepreneurs were finally satisfied with the government programme. The newsletter of Finnish Entrepreneurs said that the Government Programme is “better than feared”. There might be a difference. This is where you told me that the government is now offering stability when we don't have the courage to reform. What seems to be the stability now is that the household reduction is being reduced, that wage taxation is being tightened, eating up purchasing power from both consumers and, for the most part, entrepreneurs directly, and that fuel taxation is being tightened and investments are being used instead of rail and education investments that are significant in the distribution policy. And it is also likely that stability when you told us that the three-month-old annex to the Government Programme on the use of sales revenue is no longer in force, but it was unclear what the new annex was. Lintilä, you have been talking about one thing for a long time, and that is the inevitable need for a foreign labour force when we have a labour shortage that is the main obstacle to the growth of entrepreneurship at the moment. Do you believe that this temptation, which several ministers have spoken about here, is actually possible if the authority decides when an entrepreneur can hire in Finland on legal terms, instead of deciding on his own, is it possible to respond to a shortage of labour without removing the question of availability?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u60	Perhaps this would be more of a matter for Minister Haraka.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u61	Mr President! Here came in a very interesting way from the opposition, could you say, two exactly the opposite of what is necessary or how blessed it is? [ Hulls on the right]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u62	Next question, Congressman Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u63	Mr President! In addition to a good entrepreneur's day, I would like to wish you a good week of coeliac disease! Celiac disease is a serious autoimmune disease and several autoimmune diseases are treated with medicinal products and have a specific substitution rate of 65 % or 100 %. The only treatment for coeliac disease, the only medicine, is a constant, unconditional gluten-free diet that is far more expensive than regular food. The treatment is prescribed by the doctor and the allowance for celiac disease must also be compared to the reimbursement of medicines. In addition to families with children, the families of pensioners, unemployed people, students and more than one coeliac character are very much expected to receive the very necessary allowance for coeliac disease. On behalf of the coeliacs, I have taken a legislative initiative to refund the allowance for coeliac disease, and I would like to ask the minister concerned: do we understand the seriousness of this autoimmune disease, and whether the very necessary allowance for coeliac disease will be recovered as a matter of urgency?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u64	Mr President! A very good week of coeliac disease for me too! The Government Programme states that the government will determine the need for a dietary allowance. This dietary allowance was abolished in 2015 for savings reasons, and when it was abolished, it was found — even though celiac disease or any food allergy is not comparable — that there is a problem of equality in the fact that other diseases are paid for food compensation. We also have diseases for which it is necessary to follow a diet. In accordance with the Government Programme, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will launch this study and we will do so carefully and take it seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u65	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u66	Mr President! Indeed, untreated or poorly treated celiac disease causes many additional diseases, including osteoporosis, anaemia, infertility, depression, in addition to multiple abdominal symptoms and fatigue, joint and nervous symptoms, including intestinal cancer and growth and development retardation in children and adolescents. This does not happen in allergies or in many other diseases, and in celiac disease, gluten-free diet is the only treatment unlike in other situations. In addition to human suffering, medical visits, examinations, treatments and absenteeism from these supplementary diseases also entail significant additional costs for society. Too often the possibility of coeliac disease is forgotten even in health care and the diagnosis is delayed. It is estimated that some 70,000 Finns suffer from coeliac disease without knowing it. My question to the Minister is: what is the government going to do to find people with celiac disease without knowing it, to bring them into treatment and to avoid so many additional diseases?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u67	Mr President! Mr Tanus is very familiar with this issue of coeliac disease, and I think it is very important that, now that we, in accordance with the government programme, are now dealing with the need for this dietary allowance, we also intervene in all the matters mentioned above. And when there is talk of compensation, of course, there are many things that need to be clarified, such as when this compensation will start to be paid, and then this particular diagnosis and diagnosis will come to the fore. I also think it is very important that we prevent a number of diseases. Although celiac disease is not preventable, it is extremely important to find it early and early so that the disease can also be tackled in time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u68	This time, the last question.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u69	Mr President! Thank you for this question by Mr Tanus. It was extremely important and very important to the people who suffered from this extremely bad disease. The Minister has already explained this need, but I would have asked the Minister: what time will you be able to reach this deadline? Then I would have liked to comment on this matter of equality, when it always seems to be rising to these points when one of the sick groups should come, for example, from this side of society. Is it equality that everyone has the same disease or that no one has the same disease? I think that is a rather strange argument to use here that it is not possible to grant such compensation, which is now perhaps a little rashly removed at the time of 2015. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u70	Mr President! Yes, this coeliac allowance was abolished in 2015 by Minister Mäntylä.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u73	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u74	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! You will have at your tables the report of the Board of Governors for 2018, which I will now be happy to present here as the new President of the Board of Governors, but I would like to say that the merits of this report of the Board of Governors for this year are due to the bank council chaired by the current President, Mr Vanhanen, although there are some of the same members, and it is good that the experience is in the Banking Council this season. President! As in previous years, the report contains descriptions of the activities and administration of the Bank of Finland and the Financial Supervisory Authority during the reporting year. This report contains six articles focusing on topical and specific themes. The first concerns the normalisation of monetary policy in the euro area and in the United States, which is now in a slightly new situation at the moment, the second on a continuous basis of household indebtedness and the third on a long-term outlook for Finland's growth. Other specific themes deal with the impact of climate change on financial stability, the economic situation in Italy, which has now become new information, and then the regulatory challenges associated with cryptocurrency. Mr. Speaker! In this speech, I will go over three areas: First of all, I would like to take a brief look at some of the ECB's monetary policy and the Bank of Finland. In the second part, I am going through the Financial Supervisory Authority, and then, finally, you can say that past this report, I raise the question of the possibility of negative interest rates on bank deposits. It can be said that it comes a little from outside this report on the basis of the discussion that has taken place in Finland this summer, among other things. Mr. Speaker! On the economic development of the euro area and the ECB's monetary policy, I would like to say two things: Firstly, the report year 2018 was the fifth consecutive year of economic growth in the euro area. It can be said that growth has continued broadly in the euro area, albeit at a slower pace. Secondly, inflation rose slightly from the previous year and stood at 1.8 per cent, measured by the annual change in the Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices. Monetary policy continued to revitalize throughout the reporting year. Overall, the ECB's growth-supporting monetary policy has contributed to the favourable economic development of the euro area and has effectively engaged in bank lending. Since the ECB's monetary policy in the reporting year is both a concise description of the current report and a number of detailed descriptions of, for example, the Bank of Finland's annual report and the ECB's website, I will not go into it any further in my speech now, but it can be said that the monetary policy supporting the ECB's growth has played a significant role in the growth we have seen in the euro area in recent years, including those growth figures that Finland has enjoyed in recent years, which were also referred to in Question Time. President! With regard to the Bank of Finland, I would like to raise two points: First of all, changes took place in the Board of Directors of the Bank of Finland during the reporting year. The Executive Board was chaired by Erkki Liikanen until 11 July 2018. On 12 July last year, the Bank Board of Governors presented and the President of the Republic appointed Olli Rehn as Vice-President of the Board of Directors for a new term of office of seven years. Ms Marja Nykänen, member of the Executive Board, was appointed vice-president of the Board of Directors since 15 August last year, and Mr Tuomas Välimäki was appointed member of the Board of Directors by the Banking Council from 12 July onwards for a term of office of five years. The Board of Directors decided on the division of tasks and areas of responsibility so that they entered into force on the last day of October last year. Secondly, the Bank of Finland: The management of central bank tasks and the investment of its own financial assets generate income for the Bank of Finland, but it also poses different risks to it. The Bank Board of Governors will follow, and this new appointed Board of Directors will monitor, regularly, the development of the risk profile of the Bank of Finland. It may be noted that there has been no significant change in the report year. The Bank of Finland has a financial asset of approximately EUR 11.6 billion and, in investing this financial asset, the Bank of Finland is exposed to credit and liquidity risks and also to market risks such as exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. At the end of last year, the combined risks of financial assets and monetary policy amounted to EUR 2.1 billion. The risk assessment has risen slightly from one year ago, but it has been due to model adjustments. This is the kind of change in the risk calculation, the new distribution assumptions that predict higher losses than before. The Bank of Finland’s overall risk assessment mentioned above includes the risks of the Bank of Finland’s financial assets and the Eurosystem’s monetary policy programmes. This risk assessment includes the monetary policy operations at the Bank of Finland’s own risk and the contribution of the Bank of Finland to the Eurosystem’s risks in accordance with its capital key. In this context, it should be noted that the risk assessment provided by the established model is based on information from historical statistical data. It cannot, therefore, fully contain any new possible, unprecedented events. Therefore, the risk assessment is complemented by a variety of scenario analyses. At the end of last year, EUR 900 million in revaluation accounts and EUR 4 billion in reserves were available for losses. The stock and reserve fund amounted to EUR 2.8 billion. The risk buffers strengthened during the last year as a result of the growth of reserves and the rise in the value of foreign reserve assets. The Board of Governors considers that the solvency of the Bank of Finland was sufficient at the end of the reporting year to cover the risks arising from the performance of the Bank’s tasks. Then, Mr President, on financial supervision: Financial supervision operates administratively in connection with the Bank of Finland, but decision-making is independent of it. The Board of Governors shall be responsible for overseeing the overall appropriateness and efficiency of the activities of the Financial Supervisory Authority. The Board of Directors of the Financial Supervisory Authority and the Director, acting on a proposal from the Board, shall be appointed by the Board of Governors. With regard to the activities of the Financial Supervisory Authority, I would like to raise a few points. First of all, the matter has already been well known, but it is also appropriate to note here that Marja Nykänen was appointed by the Board of Governors of the Financial Supervisory Authority since 1 April 2018 and appointed her chairman at the same time. Mr Martti Hetemäki from the Ministry of Finance will continue as Vice-President of the Board of Financial Supervision. Other members are Director General Outi Antila from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, Bachelor of Philosophy Lasse Heiniö, Economist Markku Pohjola and Professor of Working Life Vesa Vihrälä from the University of Helsinki. Second, the Board of Directors of the Financial Supervisory Authority has submitted a report to the Board of Directors on the activities of the Financial Supervisory Authority — the report for 2018 — and published the Financial Supervisory Authority's activity report. On the basis of these reports, discussions at the Banking Council meeting and other information received, the Banking Board has assessed that the objective of the Financial Supervisory Authority’s activities under the law has been fulfilled. From the perspective of the overall effectiveness of the activities of the Financial Supervisory Authority, the Board of Governors estimates that the Financial Supervisory Authority has managed the constantly changing field of supervision efficiently and in a manner appropriate to cost development. Thirdly, it is worth mentioning that the solvency ratios of the Finnish banking sector deteriorated in the last quarter of the reporting year as a result of Nordea's relocation. The fall in solvency ratios was mainly driven by the risk weight floors assigned by the Swedish Supervisory Authority and the European Central Bank to Nordea, which increased the risk-weighted items in Nordea's solvency calculation. Well, despite the fall in solvency ratios, the solvency ratio of the Finnish banking sector was higher than the EU average. Measured by the equity ratio, the solvency of the Finnish banking sector is the European average. Fourth, in connection with the Financial Supervisory Authority, I would point out that the transfer of Nordea's seat to Finland took place as planned from the beginning of October 2018. The related decisions prepared by the Financial Supervisory Authority were taken within the planned time frame, and the most important of them was the ECB’s decision to grant permission to Nordea’s new Finnish bank. The actual supervision, i.e. Nordea’s supervision in cooperation with the ECB, started in October also during the reporting year, and the supervision is carried out under the direction of the ECB, but in practice most of the work is done here in Fiva, Finland. On the basis of this, there was agreement between the ECB and the Financial Supervisory Authority on the attraction of the various aspects of supervision and a number of key areas became the responsibility of the Financial Supervisory Authority, such as credit risk and market risk control. A new organisational structure for banking supervision supporting Nordea’s supervision was also introduced. The Financial Supervisory Authority has stressed the importance of smooth Nordic cooperation in Nordea's supervision. The ECB and the Nordic supervisors agreed on the practical implementation of this cooperation before the transfer of supervisory responsibilities. The preparation of Nordea's home transfer did not affect the supervision of the other Finnish banking sector. Mr President! Thirdly, I would like to briefly review this current debate on the possible negative conversion of bank interest rates to private customers. At the moment, these deposits are paid either a small interest rate, according to which the deposit capital increases, or a zero interest rate, in which case the capital will remain unchanged. Thus, negative interest rates would mean that deposit capital would decrease during the deposit period. During and since the financial crisis, the ECB's monetary policy has been strongly supportive of growth and so-called unconventional instruments have been introduced in monetary policy. This has included, inter alia, a negative level of interest on deposits held by central banks. One important concept has been the effective lower limit of interest rates. This means that, with deposit rates falling to a sufficient degree, depositors will find another target for their money, i.e. monetary policy stimulus. Until now, euro area banks have been very cautious about transferring negative deposit rates to their customers. They mainly concern deposits from companies, in some cases exceptionally large deposits from households, as has been the case in Germany, for example. Well now, if the general interest rate remains at a lower level than previously expected or even falls, what will happen? I would like to say a few things about this. Firstly, competition between banks contributes to the level of interest they pay on their deposits. In that situation, when banks compete for customers, the bank that puts deposit rates on the negative side is certainly not an advantage. In other words, this competitive situation will ensure that there is no evidence, at least immediately in view, that banks will start to collect negative interest on basic bank accounts that are considered to be basic banking services for the day-to-day management of personal customers. When it comes to personal customers, the important issue also concerns consumer protection and whether current deposit agreements allow for the collection of negative deposit interest rates. This is what the Financial Supervisory Board is working on. The work is still in progress, and I am not going to anticipate its results. However, I can say that there are a number of different points of view to be considered in the work of the inquiry. On the one hand, it concerns interest rates on loans from banks and on deposits received by banks. In the Credit Institutions Act, deposits are defined as held-to-business assets, and in economics, this difference between deposits and loans is that, for loans, the creditor’s address is the bank and the debtor is, of course, the customer and, in the case of deposits, the opposite is true. This is a new situation, and that is why there are many uncertainties. This audit work by the Financial Supervisory Authority will be completed, and we will follow that up. In conclusion, however, I would like to say that if there were to be a situation in which banks would, however, begin to calculate the interest rates on bank accounts considered to be negative basic personal banking services, we legislators would have to put on the table the question of directing banks by means of possible regulation. I would like to state very clearly that it is very unlikely to lower the interest rates on these deposits below zero, and that would not be right either, because a person today cannot choose whether to pay the salary in cash or to pay it to an account, but if this were to happen, then we legislators should consider taking action in this new situation. That is what I wanted to say in order to reassure the debate on these possible negative deposit rates. Mr President! I'm sorry for the over-expression.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u75	Now there was a presentation, so that I was on an exceptional level, while there was the first speech this autumn, which I am conducting.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u76	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs Lindtman, for presenting this report. The report of the Banking Council to Parliament for 2018 contains a lot of things. However, there are some gaps that need to be highlighted. In particular, an unusual monetary policy and its risks must be highlighted. In recent years, the European Central Bank's monetary policy has used so-called unconventional monetary policy measures, including asset purchase programmes, negative deposit interest rates and proactive communication. In the context of the extended asset purchase programme in 2018, the Eurosystem’s holdings of securities increased to EUR 2570 billion in balance sheet value. Net purchases of purchase programmes ceased until December 2018, with the Eurosystem’s balance sheet already amounting to around EUR 4700 billion. All of this is also related to the Bank of Finland, whose balance sheet has grown considerably. At the end of 2018, the Bank of Finland's total claims amounted to over EUR 100 billion. A significant part of this, or EUR 45 billion, consisted of intra-Eurosystem claims. A large part is the so-called Target 2 assets of the banking system, which vary quite a lot, even on a daily basis. And then there is point 7.1 of the balance sheet, i.e. the so-called securities held for monetary policy purposes, including EUR 45 billion. Of these, the largest item is the public sector debt securities purchase programme, EUR 28 billion. The Bank of Finland’s balance sheet totals EUR 110 billion, and in recent months it is still well above EUR 140 billion. These figures need to be compared with previous situations. Ten years earlier, i.e. before the financial crisis, the total balance sheet amounted to around EUR 20-30 billion, and even before 2015: only one tenth of these monetary policy assets were present. However, it remains to be seen how unusual monetary policy and its situation will eventually normalise. During the financial crisis, monetary policy interest rates in the euro area have been negative and the ECB’s balance sheet has increased significantly thanks to a broad securities purchase programme. In recent weeks, we have gone even further into the world of negative interest rates, as Mr Lindtman also pointed out. But this has never been the case in history. Although we are even talking about a new normal situation, it should be borne in mind that the situation is very special from the point of view of traditional economics or even from the point of view of everyday life. Normalisation of monetary policy would mean a gradual tightening of monetary policy, an increase in interest rates and a reduction in the balance sheet of the Central Bank. However, as stated elsewhere in this report, there is exceptional uncertainty about the dismantling of a light monetary policy. In any event, the current situation and the systemic risks it poses — not only the risks to retail banks, consumers, but also these systemic risks — should have been dealt with in much more depth in this report from the perspective of both the Bank of Finland and the financial markets.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u77	Mr President! In its report of 2018 the Parliamentary Banking Council has drawn attention to Finland’s long-term growth prospects in the theme writing 3. The banking council's comments on the long-term growth prospects of our country are brutally honest reading. Growth prospects remain subdued. According to different forecasts, Finland’s economic growth will in the near future be well below or close to 2% per year, or even below 1%. That is the message that we decision-makers must take seriously. Slow growth threatens to become a new normal, as stated in the Finnish Bank's theme article. Our country's own challenge is also the ageing of the population and the reduction of new generations. According to Statistics Finland's forecast, Finland's working-age population will fall much faster in the future than previously estimated. The number of 15 to 74-year-olds is now projected to decrease by 120000 over the period 2026 to 2040, while in the 2015 population forecast the labour force reduction was expected to reach around 25,000. This change is extremely radical. Mr President! Today we celebrate the national business day. The well-being and growth of our country have always relied heavily on hardworking entrepreneurs who, through their own passion and risk-taking, create growth, work and a future for our country as a whole. We still need the means by which entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship and work will always be valued in our society so that we can spend every day of the business day. We need a comprehensive social security reform so that it is always worthwhile to take up work. We need support and training for those who are considering entrepreneurship, so that no Ponsse or Firstbeat companies are not set up. We need respect for work and enterprise, so that future generations can also live in a welfare state called Finland. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u78	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! The report of the Board of Banking for 2018 is interesting to read and, of course, when you mirror it to this day, you think about a lot of things. In particular, I read these various thematic writings with interest, and of them the theme book 3 of Finland's long-term growth prospects is one that I would like every Member of Parliament to read carefully and, in particular, the representatives of the government parties to read it particularly carefully. It describes what has happened in Finland in recent years. In this third theme article it is written that ‘In 2015,the Finnish economy returned to growth after alonger career. The recovery from the recession was facilitated by both a favourable international economic situation and a growth-friendly monetary policy. However, the high economic cycle is gradually waning, and Finland’s economic growth will remain in Finland in 2019 and 2020 On the basis of the Bank’s December forecast, the annual rate of less than 2 % is still below.’ — — — — In fact, I think the situation is already much worse. Uncertainty in Europe is growing. Global economic uncertainty has increased. Germany is already in recession. The Chinese economy, you can say, is practically a mystery. They themselves are talking about a 6% increase. Is the truth one and a half percent or something in between? Brexit these days in particular is certainly everywhere in Europe and globally on people's lips and will have a bearing on one way or another on the economy. The actions of the United States, the actions of President Trump, are unpredictable. Their effects have been very rapid in the direction and in the other direction, and I am sure that President Putin in Russia will also have his own influence. And there's a US-China trade war that's got a lot of twists in it lately. In fact, our problem is that, in this situation, other countries have economic buffers, Finland actually has a deficit. Germany, Sweden, Denmark have bulldozers in the economy, and in fact, Finland's risk in this situation is that we are going into a recession in deficit. In fact, that is the difference between what has happened in the past. So we have not been able to achieve a proper growth, but we are now in deficit in a new recession. And what's the Rinte government doing? The deficit in the draft budget for next year is already 2.3 billion at this stage, and the messages indicate that it will increase. Age-related expenditure amounts to half a billion a year. In fact, employment growth has already stalled, but at the same time there are more and more job vacancies. So, employees and jobs don't meet, and there's going to be big challenges about this. In fact, the 75% employment rate set by the Rinte government itself would only balance the economy for a moment. The higher the employment rate is needed. And what does the government do in this situation? The Government will increase expenditure in a forward-looking way without any information on their financing. Employment...
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u81	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Parliament's banking council for this clear report and Mrs Lindtman for a good presentation. This is a public document which gives anyone a good starting point for assessing our monetary and economic policies. To the extent that Mr Heinonen has read the wrong document in some way: this report by the Parliament's Banking Council does not contain the employment measures that the government has now set out in its programme and which will then receive news in connection with our budget. After all, we have many measures to increase employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u86	Mr President! Finnish households have followed the model of the rest of the world fluently in their lending. Prior to the liberalisation of the money market, the virtue of taking out as little credit as possible and repaying it as quickly as possible is past activity. The time has also been left in history when the person planning the mortgage came to the local bank manager with humility and was very happy if the bank weighed the loan’s ability to repay the loan so that the mortgages would survive. Parliament's Banking Council is rightly concerned about the historically high level of household indebtedness. Concern is not only related to micro-economic sustainability but also to macro-prudential vulnerability. In the longer term, household indebtedness has been increased by large long-term housing loans. In particular, loans from housing companies have continued to grow in the form of mortgage burdens taken over by households. In older housing companies, there are many plumbing, roof and window renovations, which are mostly financed by mortgages on housing companies, which grow according to the size of housing units owned by residents. For years, Finland and the rest of the world have lived in a time of low interest rates. The low interest rate has encouraged housing purchasers to move and borrow low-interest loans. Years of stability have created a dangerous illusion about the endless continuity of the situation. Houses and apartments built by young adults require large amounts of loans. There has been confidence in the future and optimism about repaying the loan. As a municipal decision-maker, the courage of a young family of children to build a large detached house in a sparsely populated area, especially when only one of the parents was working. In mind, how does the family fare when interest rates take off or things happen unexpectedly in life, which affects the ability to repay the loan: can the house be sold at a reasonable price if the situation becomes so compelling? The Banking Council is concerned that many Finns have been in debt to many places. The share of different consumer credit has grown faster than that of housing loans. More should be done, for example, to limit the granting of quick-leases. Legislation in this area has been promoted over the past year. The rise in the household debt ratio has been curbed by the mortgage ceiling that entered into force in July 2018, where own savings or other guarantees must be 15 per cent of the price of the dwelling. Previously, this was 10 per cent. The first-time home buyer still has enough savings or guarantees of 5%. These macro-prudential measures can limit the negative effects of household over-indebtedness on the real economy. There is still a need for what is known as common sense action, so that the carrying capacity of households is on a sound basis. The amount of the loan must be taken out only to the extent that the repayment capacity exists and the collateral must correspond to the amount borrowed. Adequate self-financing will naturally reduce the risk involved in the repayment of the loan. When banks' lending is sustainable, they also tolerate losses. Therefore, there will continue to be a need for top-level guidance on responsible debt-taking and incentives to save money. Mr President! The indebtedness of Finns must be considered as a whole. Although household debt has grown to record high levels, net wealth has also grown even faster than fears.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u87	Mr President! The report of the Bank of Finland's Bank of Finland's Banking Council, which is under discussion, deals with last year, but at the same time we can provide an overview of the Bank of Finland's future prospects and the financial sector. Christine Lagarde, the future President of the ECB, has stated that climate change should be a priority for the ECB’s macroeconomic policy and could guide its financial market purchases towards green, environmentally friendly financial products. Mr Lagarde's opinion is welcome, as the Central Bank's financial market operations are also relevant to the pursuit of green economic restructuring. The impact and risks of climate change on the financial markets and the role of central banks in climate matters are also discussed in the Bank of Finland's report, and it is expected that the theme will only become more important in the future. Mr President! The report by the Banking Council deals with household debt, which has risen to a historically high level, and this issue has been referred to and expressed concern here. There's cause for concern. In its report, the Bank of Finland’s Banking Council highlights possible ways of curbing household indebtedness. The report proposes new macro-economic instruments, including the review of the maximum debt ratio or the review of the maximum debt management burden. The limitation of the repayment period is also seen as a possible means of limiting the size and indebtedness of loans. In addition to these measures, I believe that restrictions should also be considered on the collection of housing company loans in new locations, as we have recently seen a phenomenon in which new housing company loans are increasing in an incomprehensible way. One factor in household indebtedness is also the growth of consumer credit. Fortunately, Parliament has tightened up the regulation of speed levers, and there is more to be done in this area. Hopefully, the Government and Parliament, together with the Bank of Finland and the Finnish Financial Supervisory Authority, will consider and take forward the above and other possible ways to prevent over-indebtedness of households. Mr President! The Bank of Finland is responsible for the availability and issuance of cash in Finland and ensures the efficiency of financial management. The report notes that the provision of cash services has deteriorated throughout the 21st century. The money in the citizens' account is citizens' access to the banks, so cash should be available and available in the essential functions of society today and also in the future. In the event of a material deterioration in the availability and availability of cash, regulation should be considered to ensure the availability and availability of cash. Digital payment is convenient and understandablely increasing, but the use of cash must also be possible for citizens in the future. Mr President! In his introductory speech, Mr Lindtman, President of the Banking Council, raised the question of negative deposit rates for consumers and sought to calm the debate. Although the matter has been publicly discussed, the fear that citizens will have to pay for their deposits does seem very unlikely, since deposits are a public claim from banks and it is difficult to see that a negative interest rate could be levied on deposits while, however, the margins on loans have been blocked. I also believe that the risk of escape is likely to prevent negative interest rates for consumers, but of course the situation must be monitored. Mr President! Thank you for your versatile and interesting report to the Banking Council.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u88	Mr President! As a former bank representative and as a current banking delegate, I would also like to thank President Lindtman for his good report and for this initial description. So, Mr President, it was all right to allow yourself to take up the time required by such a valuable report. President! I was also pleased with that, and I thought it important that when we followed the debates in the summer and quite a lot of people were concerned about this negative interest rate, Mr Lindtman was already taking a little advantage of the fact that we have not been blind to this phenomenon, but it is quite clear that it would be extraordinary if such a threat were in sight that a person could not keep his money in the bank without paying for it. It's not going to work, and there shouldn't be a situation like that. This well explained the reasons why it is unlikely that this will happen. But it is quite clear that if such a threat were to come or if it did, then it would certainly be the financial supervision and then the consumer authorities, and ultimately, if nothing else were to be done, Mr Lindtman rightly said that it would already be necessary to act in the legislation and to act in the legislative capacity. It is neither fair nor fair to anyone's sense of justice that the banking world should be so expensive from the point of view of a normal person that it should start paying for your own salary or pension to go to the bank. Of course, this wouldn't work. In this speech, I thought to focus on something that is reflected here in the report of our bank representatives — both here and in the previous ones — and on which we have also had frequent discussions at the meetings of the Financial Supervisory Authority, very often in recent years, and that is generally the availability of such basic banking services. It is a very important issue in the everyday lives of many people and it is therefore also a good thing that it is now being discussed in this report. This is generally related to the issue of equality between people in this world of digitalisation and technology. I have often thought about it and discussed it with many citizens that although it is extremely good and wonderful that different applications and applications and mobile services come into hands and are easy to use, many things we can do well, so at the same time we cannot close our eyes to the fact that a huge number of people today are outside this digital world. Either they do not exist or they do not have enough knowledge to use them, they may be afraid. And surprisingly, there are people who just can't handle important things for them through these digital services. For example, I found it quite descriptive that one quarter of people over the age of 65 have never identified themselves electronically and only one third of people over the age of 75 have access to the Internet. When we are in this situation, it is clear that we do not have a properly equal society in this respect. It is important that we take action in many sectors to increase this equality: there must be access to these devices, there must be routes to learn how to use them, there must be support for this. And I think a very important kind of digital janitor today can be the library, for example. Good old libraries, great work can be done there for this too. All in all, solutions are needed. And then, of course, with regard to these banking services: they are one big part of this theme of equality, and it is good that here too, the banking council, and therefore the whole of Parliament, must be able to ensure equality and that no one falls from this technological development. If you look at page 44 in this report, then there will be part of the Financial Supervisory Authority to answer what it has done about it. It has required a certain level of access for banks and it also says that this year's supervision will be used to investigate bank practices and services in basic banking services. And we'll come back when we get this bank service clearance, see how it is. By the way, I heard from Tampere today that the public is interested in things. At the NGO’s event, where it had just been mentioned that these basic banking services were available, there were a hundred people assembled, and some were not even included in the event. When I knew that, I thought it important that there should also be a representative of the Financial Supervisory Authority to report on these practices, and so I believe that we should also have this debate in Parliament and think about how we are promoting equality in the digital world.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u89	Mr President! I would like to raise one more point about this report, namely theme number six, which is on page 68, namely the current situation in cryptocurrency and the regulatory challenges. It is, of course, good that this report has raised this theme so prominently, but when you look at the actual content, it is stated that the trading of these virtual currencies has in practice remained the only use, but they have no real value. This is a bit of a shame to say, and I would say that even on a factual basis, if we consider developing countries, for example, where there is no such banking system, in fact many people do not have bank accounts, it has proved that such technological solutions can be quite good means of payment. Similarly, the Security of Supply Agency in its own scenario work has brought blockchain technologies and virtual currencies into one of these things for the future. I also believe that the Committee on the Future is talking about these. Many banks — which, incidentally, are also involved in this Eurosystem Target 2 system — are interested in such a system, making international credit transfers, which can take place very quickly. If so, I would encourage a more open and transparent approach to this issue, particularly from the point of view of business opportunities and the development of their ecosystems, in the same way as, for example, in the Baltic countries. In Estonia and Lithuania, a much more active approach has been taken to these, and I believe it is worth it for them. I would be grateful if this point were to be re-evaluated in a rather comprehensive way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u90	Ladies and gentlemen! The 45 minutes reserved for this point are now being used — and exceeded. I will give Mr Koskinen the floor, but the rest must then be taken at the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u91	Mr President! It is well suited for this extension of the Park, which is to say, 180 degrees from the opposite angle of the cryptocurrencies. This is in itself a good thing that these thematic reviews on current issues are here, and quite informatively linked. It is precisely this period of cryptocurrency that should be broadened in relation to what the current arrangements are being used for. The greatest need for use or perceived use has been to increase Swiss over-emphasised banking secrecy to another power, that such grey and partly black money is hidden in cryptocurrency. Another worrying feature of this particular situation in the money market is that when stock market prices are likely to fall, these alternative investment targets will then be sought. The value of gold has risen to an unhealthy high level, and as one of these crypto currencies will come, and the game will become stronger with that possible increase in value. What is missing here is precisely the assessment of the adverse effects of this. In addition to these negative gaming phenomena, the big question, especially with regard to block chain technology, is that it is a huge waste of energy; it makes big computer mills run for nothing, as it were, in order to maintain the encryption systems. After all, the use of electricity is enormous that, for reasons of climate policy, it should then be considered that, if they are allowed to do so more widely, what kind of technology is it going to be used to avoid the waste of natural resources? But what I am talking about is this, which Mr Sarkkinen and others have already paid due attention to: the over-indebtedness of households and the avoidance of them. The Bank of Finland has taken note of this problem of mortgage lending, and it is commendable that we sometimes have the same situation as Sweden and many other countries, that there will then be a rapid cut in the value of tens of percent housing, and then these long-term, really long-term mortgages of 80-100% will become very heavy. Some steps have been taken to prevent this, but even more education and warning and direct restrictions are needed on banks' access to such close to 100% loans. But then that concern about the major part of the population is precisely the problem of rapid vipers and similar expansion, which most often affects the most low-income sections of the population. They pay the highest prices for money, both in interest rates and interest on late payment and then in different forms of payment, and by the time of enforcement it will double. It's gonna take a lot of strength. Increasing activities such as the Guarantee Foundation, developing and combining financial and debt counselling with these direct remedies, which can convert people's quick-leases and high-interest debt into reasonable bank loans or similar by means of precisely these guarantee arrangements or, in general, by collecting a debt larger than a high-interest debt that is manageable. In this respect, the actions of society have been far from adequate. The use of speed levers in relation to the operation of Veikkaus and problem gambling, which has been presented in recent weeks, is also one part of that problem, but this is still a social problem many times more, given the whole field, this group of people who are facing payment difficulties and whose small and larger debts are accumulated in unreasonably expensive credit relationships. I would also encourage the banking council and the Financial Supervisory Authority to pay more attention to this normal financial market as if it were a mild phenomenon and to seek remedies. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u92	I would also like to give a reply to Mrs Lindtman, who was the rapporteur on this matter. One minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u93	Mr President! I would like to thank Parliament for a very good, diverse debate. I can join in thanking you for this report. That's very good. I repeat that, unfortunately, I cannot take credit for myself, but perhaps it is blackmailing us, blackmailing this new banking council to continue. I'm sure these are the themes that will stay on the agenda. One is this household debt. It is true that although most of this current credit portfolio is these traditional mortgages on housing, the fastest growing mortgages and consumer credit, and the various digital or other types of credit that still take place outside these credit institutions. Attention should be paid to this and, at the same time, care should be taken to ensure that, if new macro-prudential measures are taken, maximum debt ceiling, repayment obligation or maximum maturity, the balance between the long-term outlook and short-term macro-prudential stability is maintained. Let's continue the debate on cryptovals. With regard to that sustainability gap, perhaps I should like to say one more thing: the long-term outlook of the Finnish economy, as it says, is quite large in the productivity of public services, and this is certainly a challenge for the government in this social reform. Mr President! Thank you for a good debate, and we will continue to strive for the same good reports as we have seen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u94	This good debate and the proceedings will continue, but they will now be suspended, and the proceedings will continue at this sitting once the other points of the agenda have been discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u95	We will now resume the debate on item 11 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u96	Mr President! These previous speeches on this issue, when talking about these negative interest rates, raised concerns that the consumer or the banker should not have to pay for depositing money in the bank. I do agree very much. Of course, Finland is part of the international economy, globalisation, and in this respect the banks are also forced to make decisions on the basis of the price of money for them. What I want to say here is a little related to this kind of economic education, financial information. I am a professor of history and social studies myself, and it is good, of course, especially for young people but adults, to always note that at the moment, when inflation is about 1%, and if the average deposit rates are zero per cent, in practice, the consumer pays every year for the money being in the account — or not paying for it being in the account — but losing that amount of inflation for the money he deposits.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u97	Mr President! An hour ago, when we were dealing with the same subject, the virtual currency came up and had to ask for a reply, which I did not receive because of the time constraints, which is why I will come back to this issue. Mr Koskinen raised a number of flaws in that, quite properly, with regard to virtual currencies, for example, this energy required for computing power, and then, on the one hand, he referred to the grey economy and also to speculative phenomena, which have taken place in these areas. I'd say they're all true, but they're not all true. It is also about what kind of regulation we are developing, and also about the young age of technology. After all, these technologies are only about ten years old and are developing very quickly. If I were to continue with Mr Koskinen's list, there would also be problems in terms of technical usability, information security. Various abuses have occurred, for example, in the circulation of these virtual currencies. Of course, there are hundreds, if not thousands, of projects with very different motives, with very different purposes, and of course they need to be regulated, and good regulation. That is why I would like to encourage that, when a report of this kind has been submitted by the Banking Council, which is now apparently going to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, we start to develop regulation, which is also appropriate for the future development of these technologies and business models. We should take a model from different countries and make such a neutral comparison, bring up these different countries, such as Switzerland, Lithuania, the United States, Hong Kong and so on, to see what kind of regulation could be that addresses these shortcomings but still opens up these opportunities for development in this technology sector. As a result, I hope that, when, for example, the law on the supervision of bank and payment accounts may be updated in the future, there will then have been such international comparisons and regulatory developments.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u98	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u99	Mr President! Yesterday was the Finnish Food Day, and we Finns are really lucky, perhaps luckier than we think, because we get to enjoy the best and cleanest food in the world. Of course, this is an important part of our living in a land with the cleanest air in the world, and we have clean soil, clean waters, and also natural conditions that enable us to have good plant health as a matter of principle. We need to use some pesticides, for example, which, as ice, would cause food not to be as clean and high-quality as we have in Finland. So we're really lucky. However, circumstances are becoming more challenging. International trade is increasing. On the other hand, as the climate changes, different pathogens also endanger this good Finnish plant health situation, and in this respect it is important that the legislation is kept up-to-date so that we can continue to ensure that we can eat the best food in the world in this country. In this respect, it is highly justified that such a draft law should be introduced, and, Mr President, it makes sense to send it to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. I promise you that, at least on our own behalf and on behalf of the delegation, we will then come to the committee to deal with this matter very carefully, so that we can have a good law.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u100	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for this referral debate. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u101	Mr President! We all know very well in this House the situation in Britain and the possible difference between the European Union. The situation in Britain seems to be changing every day, as we have seen this week. It is clear that the removal of the EU, especially the non-contractual withdrawal, has also had to be carefully prepared here in Finland. It has been difficult even to assess all the effects if the non-contractual difference occurred. The most important thing, however, is to ensure that individuals are protected in the event of a separation if an uncontractual separation takes effect. Adverse reactions should be minimised. The temporary amendment of this National Pensions Act would safeguard the situation of some 320 people living in the UK who are receiving benefits under the National Pensions Act and the continuation of benefits for one year after the EU divorce. In accordance with the current law, the suspension of pension payments from the beginning of the month following the date of the resignation of the EU would be totally unreasonable. The payment period of the year provides security for beneficiaries of benefits, 80% of whom are women. But as I have already said, the situation in Britain varies. According to the latest information it appears that the non-contractual EU separation in Britain has become unlikely — in the last day. I am speaking here mainly because it is good to take into account the practical aspects that affect people's everyday lives in the EU in reality, especially in the daily lives of people living in different countries. At the moment, however, it seems that there are more EU entrants than those seeking to leave.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u102	Mr President! This is a very well-founded piece of legislation which safeguards the status of this group, which now lives in Britain after a possible non-contractual EU separation and which is entitled to these benefits from Finland. I have to say that, in recent days, when we have certainly followed the political debate in Britain closely, its viability and its rapid pace, I myself was perhaps hoping that there might be even more debate here about what our precise situation picture is at the moment in Britain, and that then we might perhaps even hear their views from the members of the Council of State. However, Finland is currently the EU Presidency, and although, of course, the centre of events is there in London at the moment, surely our ministers must have a good idea of what will happen and, on the other hand, what different scenarios have now been created from the EU's point of view. But perhaps there are other matters so important now on the agenda and in the order of business that we will then go on discussing them, and that Question Time covered a number of such things in a very concrete way, directly affecting Finland. A good debate in itself — but I just want to say that this possibility of Brexit is such a mega-class issue for Finland that perhaps the President could consider whether there would be a topical debate or any other procedure that would allow Parliament to have a wide-ranging debate on this and to be informed about these last-minute situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u103	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 2/2019 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u104	Mr President! I am presenting the report of the Committee on Culture, because I was chairman of the Committee on Culture in the early years. Today it is Paula Risikko, but this was discussed in the early years, and the report from the Library of Parliament deals with the year 2018. The Education Committee stresses that libraries have always played an important and diverse educational role in our society. The activities of libraries promote equal opportunities for culture, culture and diverse information for the population. As a public research library, the library is also unique in Finland. The measurable use volumes of the library data were on level with previous years in 2018, but both book loans and visitors are lower than peak years. This is natural because more and more people have gone digitally. In the information and self-service society, information and material can easily be reached today, so that the library will be sought for increasingly demanding expertise and advice on problem situations. The library is therefore fewer than the previous years, but the assignments are more challenging than before. The committee attaches great importance to developing the expertise of the library staff in order to respond to the constant change in the operating and information environment and that, by recognising the key service needs, the library can continue to reach its customers in the best possible way. According to the information received by the committee, the library is mainly accessible. In addition to actual accessibility, there is also a need to emphasise the wider accessibility of services, which, among other things, requires an assessment of the availability of online services. The committee very much welcomes the library system's acquisition cooperation with other scientific libraries, as well as the event cooperation with the Central Library Oodi. The library has been involved in the development of the open data service of Parliament, and the service has been opened in June 2018. The Committee considers it important that the use of this data be developed for the needs of both Parliament and society as a whole. In the report year 2018, the library was actively involved in the data support project for parliamentary decision-making, which explores the data needs of legislative work and develops services such as the information support service provided by the library information service and the electronic library service provided by Parliament. The Committee stresses the importance of the information studied as a basis for political decision-making and considers it very important that new information products be developed in the context of the information support project, so that the library can better provide pre-assessed information to legislators. The library's current information packages are already a good start and a step in the right direction. The Committee on Education also attaches great importance to the fact that during the reporting year the library's Veteran People's Information Archive was designated as the Archive of the Year in connection with the Nordic Archives Day. The memory archive is unique internationally, and it already includes nearly 430 interviews. Based on the report and the report it has received, the Education Committee estimates that the library has been successful in its service tasks and that the library has been well managed in 2018. The committee heard Director Antti Virrankoski from the Library of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u105	Mr President! I would like to raise two points on this committee's report. Both are thanks to the well-functioning library of the Parliament, and at the same time are also invitations and encouragements to continue the development work. First of all: It is great that the library's services are mostly accessible, and it is excellent that the library also has the desire and will to develop accessibility. Accessibility refers to online services, applications and publications, accessibility of services, usability of tools, understanding of information and participation. The use of plain language is one of the key factors in accessibility, and I believe that in this use of plain language we all still have a lot to do in this house and that it would have a lot to learn for each of us. I hope that: For its part, the Library of Parliament would also serve as an example of how to increase the use of plain language. Another point worthy of attention in the committee's report is the fact that the library is actively involved in the information support project for parliamentary decision-making, which identifies the needs of information on legislative work and develops services through the received user information, such as the information support service provided by the library information service and the electronic library service provided by Parliament. The main idea behind the development of e-library services is to improve information and material for decision-makers in a timely and easy-to-use form. Like the committee, I have for a long time highlighted the information studied as a basis for decision-making, and it is therefore important that new information products be developed in the context of the information support project, so that the library can provide more accurate information for legislators. The library's current information packages are already a good start and the right way forward, and in recent years a great deal of progress has been made in this area, even with great strides. Here in Parliament, more emphasis should be placed on the role of evidence-based decision-making in legislative work, and we parliamentarians should demand the use of research evidence. On the other hand, it should also be made as easy as possible for each Member of Parliament to have access to valid and new research data on each issue under consideration. To make this possible, we need someone who will also make reliable research data metaanalyses, i.e. put it together in one easy-to-read format. This is, of course, a big thing, but I would like the Library of Parliament to find resources for this kind of development in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u106	Mr President! I would also like to express my warm thanks to the library board and the library staff for the work they have done and also for this report, which very much opens the meaning of the Library of Parliament. This is not just for us in Parliament, but for the people as a whole. As stated in that report, researchers and journalists, for example, use these library services, and in this way the social role of the library is very important. It is wonderful that the library has such a line that it is aimed at transparency and accessibility of information and at making information and, in particular, facts as easily accessible as possible. It is very important for our society as a whole, because, as I am sure we have all heard, many times in the social debate there may be such throws, perhaps even unwarranted images, and yet we should always base our decision on facts and bring them up, and there is a great and important role to be played by the Library of Parliament in promoting these facts and fact-based debate. It is worth continuing to develop this library and it is important that the library has sufficient human resources to enable this important work to continue. It is also important for every citizen — even if there is no researcher or journalist — to have access to information and also to know where to go for that information. If we think of our children and young people, if they want to get information from somewhere, they will pick up a smartphone and then start looking for it, and that is why it is important that these digital services are developed, as stated in this library report. It would be hoped that we social decision-makers, but also all citizens, would be such an example for children and young people as users of the library, that we would use the library and talk about it and bring it up. For example, a very good and affordable gift for a child is to take a child to the library and spend a reading time with a child at home. In that way, we will already teach these new generations to use the library and promote that our social discussion will then also be based on researched and weighed knowledge and not on images.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u107	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Laiho for the introduction and to Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen and Mr Aittakummu for the speeches so far. Yes, literacy is an important issue, and it is one of the most precious gifts parents can give their children, teaching them to use books and to read and use libraries. We've been talking about the number of visitors. It is a common trend that the number of visitors to libraries is under low pressure. On the other hand, as has been said here, this digitality is the other side, and it becomes what its visit or digital lending means, becomes effective, and it is more difficult to measure it. I'd assume it's a pretty big impact. For example, use of the information service: 1,400 uses. Some of these are very large, may require more experts to work several days. That is precisely what the representatives have mentioned here, that the correct researched information must be available, not just about this kind of clique journalism.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u108	Mr President of the Parliament! The collection of the Parliamentary Library receives praise year after year. The long history of the library as a central library of its own field is visible and sets a lot of expectations. As a research library, the Library of Parliament is unique in its field, and just as Mr Aittakumpu said, so not only political researchers but also journalists also use the library's data, content and expert services. This certainly contributes to a high-quality and fact-based political debate and also highlights the effectiveness of the library. During the reporting year, the Parliamentary Library was actively involved in the development of services in line with the Office’s strategy and also in the launch of an information support project under the responsibility of the Information and Communication Department. The highlight of the year was the appointment of the Veteran People's Memorial Archive as the archive of the year in connection with the Nordic Archives Day. The criteria were also bountiful — internationally unique, extensive, representative and thus valuable for political history and policy research in general. The library has made excellent progress in the focus areas of the library's service strategy for the years 17 to 20. Libraries in general, both here in Parliament and everywhere, as has been said, are a basic service for citizens. It is a basic service, just as education or health care are. We are certainly all doing business in the library, perhaps quoting a bunch of books and perhaps not thinking much more about how all this is possible at all. Perhaps we are accustomed to the availability of a library where we can look for what we need. Libraries are an important part of our community, and we Finns do appreciate our library institution high. Of course, it would not be possible for you or me to end up with a book without expert and competent staff here in Parliament as well as in libraries. The work in libraries ensures that the basic services of culture that make our everyday life a little better are part of our basic education and also prevent many social problems. So the importance of libraries and libraries is not just borrowing books. The importance of libraries as a source of such cultural capital and a guardian of regional civilisation and tradition is beyond doubt.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u109	Mr President! As highlighted in that report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Protection, libraries always play an important and diverse cultural role in our society and the activities of libraries promote equal opportunities for culture, culture and diverse information for the population. We can be proud of the Library of Parliament, which therefore belongs to the Parliamentary Office and serves the Parliament in the same way as it does in its field of activity and acts as a central archive of Parliament and as a central library for the provision of public legal information, social information and parliamentary information. You can say that this library of ours really is unique. It is true that there has been some reduction in lending needs and that there are not so many visits, but, as is stated here, there are still a lot of assignments. I think it is wonderful that Members of Parliament have learned to use the library in a very diverse way and so have our officials. There's a lot of help there, isn't there? I would also like to thank the staff of the Library of Parliament for their willingness to provide services and their expertise: there is really no question left unanswered when you ask them something. It is very important that, at the same time, this library activity has been reformed, and in that sense it is really great. So thank you to Mr Laiho, who was then chairman of the committee: this report is excellent. Then there's usually a library job. Well, if you think about it, it's an innovative thing. In our time, we have collected a hundred such social innovations on one deck, and one can say that the library is one such innovation of civilisation. We have been able to maintain a free library, and the library, despite the fact that we have digitised these materials and much is read from the ram, has maintained its own place in Finland and as the cradle of civilization, one might say. Libraries have also been able to maintain new products. There's a variety of sports equipment quotes and stuff. It can be said that libraries are actually such cultures. And it must also be said that when I was from a small town myself, I would never have been able to study as far as I am if there had been no libraries, because there would have been no money to buy all the books needed for a doctorate, for example. So it is excellent that we have access to libraries for everyone. Thanks for the libraries.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u110	Mr President! The point that Parliament should always bring up from the Library of Parliament is that it is open to all citizens, not just those who work in Parliament. This is something that is clearly not known in those provinces: you can come here and visit. Then there's one thing about this library story as a technical thing like this: Some feedback has come as to whether it should be changed, developed, or perhaps the greatest pressure is on whether it should be reduced. There are little historical reasons for this, so that comparability is maintained when it is considered to be the same. I myself am very pleased with this form, which is. Of course, it can always be looked at. I will raise one more change that will appear to the library visitor at the time the house comes from outside. There's a security check now. It's been opened this week. It is, of course, regrettable that society is moving in the direction that security checks should also be carried out in the library, but when I went there today to interview security people, they said it would only take one minute or two. Of course, it is a question of ensuring the safety of people working and visiting in this house in all situations. This small change in this must now be accepted as society moves in this direction. The Library Act entered into force in 2017. There has been talk of free of charge here, and when the library law was adopted, the explanatory statement of the law and the committee report drew attention to this free of charge. Well, that's a good thing. It's worth sticking to in the future. Small enquiries will always be made as chairman of the library board, and from time to time I ask the regulars how the service works and whether there are wishes or reprehensible. In this respect, I have received commendable feedback on staff competence and service readiness. One long - term colleague who works there as a researcher said that there is a difference in staff: some are friendly and others are even more friendly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u111	Mr President! The Library of Parliament is a civilist. It is a major supporter of democratic decision-making. It is valuable to complete the assessment of the work of the MP. Thank you very much for the good report and the excellent work of the library. It is good that we develop all libraries, both parliamentary and other libraries, as libraries open to all according to the needs of time, for the library brings us civilisation, unity, wisdom, continuity and order. It is an established practice to maintain and structure information," said Kai Ekholm, who was the National Library's chief librarian until last year. You can only create new information on top of the old and by knowing the old. We therefore also need such old information, we need archives. We need to know our place and the place of parliament and decision-making in history. The library also promotes literacy in many ways, which gives direction to life. Versatile literacy is the basis for all learning. It opens the doors to knowing itself, finding its own strengths, developing creativity and social skills. We need it so that we can develop ourselves and participate in society. So let's keep the libraries free, open to everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u112	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. In this context, the 16th item of the agenda will also be allowed to be discussed. The presentation of the 15th item will be by Mrs Koulumies and the 16th item will be presented by Mr Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u113	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. The content of this initiative is, in short, to allow, for example, those who employ day-care centres to check the criminal record of these workers, sometimes also during the course of their employment or the duration of their employment relationship. So now such a possibility exists, if a permanent employment or service is hired as a new person, but perhaps it would be worth allowing this kind of review also during its employment or service later. The main purpose of this law is to protect children from abuse, for example, by adults. This is, in a way, a bill together with a bill made by Mia Laiho, and they are like a couple and are sort of dealt with together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u114	Mr President! This bill proposes that the criminal record of those working with children should also be investigated in short-term employment relationships. We heard Mr Schoolman's presentation of his own bill, which relates to the possibility of checking the employment relationship as well, but this part of me is also related to short-term employment, because it is something that has been a clear flaw in working life. In permanent employment relationships, the criminal record is checked. It is required of those working with minors at the beginning of the employment relationship, but then there is a lot of people working in short-term contracts for whom it is not required. If we think about the present world process and the environment in which our children and young people live, you can well understand that we have a lot of people who are not good for children, and if we can do what we can only do to protect our children, we have to do that. When we have a lot of activities with minors in schools, kindergartens, and various other public and private activities, we need to be able to trust that we can leave our children without worry in day care, school or other activities. The fact that an extract is required only in permanent employment at the moment can in fact contribute to the fact that people are specifically seeking short-term employment, jumping from one employer to another, and then, if you return to the same employer, then there is no question of this kind of short-term replacement. But, in fact, some two months is a long time, and in that time too much bad can be done in the life of that child. This would also involve, for example, the camp activities of the congregations and others, which, however, are employed there as directors, and can cover this grey area. It costs EUR 12 to obtain a crime extract, and it will be available in about seven days and certainly in urgent cases even more quickly, which means that it is not a matter of great cost. This is about what we value and what we want to highlight as important. It is a small red tape supplement in the recruitment process, but when this is about our children, our minors, the measures to protect them, it is really, really small. Like I said, this is not a significant financial issue. I would like the present government to be able to take over this and Terhi Schoolman's bill and give them positive support.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u115	I give you a brief reply, Mr Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u116	Mr President! Here's two good billings. When it came to this at the time that people working with children are being investigated for their criminal record, it has certainly received an excellent, good reception, and no one doubts it — and I say that these clarifications are very good, which both the Schoolman and the Schoolman are very good at. The thin ones have done it. I would just like to ask you to consider the possibility that those who work with the elderly should also have this sort of investigation of the criminal background. Indeed, we have a lot of exploitation of the elderly in the sense that, for example, we are performing as volunteers and can then take advantage of the poor health of the elderly. We also have a very large number of reports of crimes of this type. That is why I would like this to happen to the elderly too, when we currently have a situation where a great deal of workers are needed for the elderly in the future. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u117	Mr Essayah and Mr Kiuru also seem to have a desire for a debate, but let us then go to the list of speakers. — Essayah first, and Kiuru then.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u118	Mr President! Indeed, this bill is absolutely essential, but I would now like to draw attention in particular to the fact that Mrs Risiko has raised the issue of the criminal record of those working with the elderly. I myself have asked a written question about this last season, and the then Minister of Justice answered a little vaguely and suggested that there would be a number of issues relating to equality in working life that could rise to the surface and the like. I hope that this will take place this season, because there has been a great deal of such abuses, such as those of those working with the elderly. In this connection, I would also like to remind you that we have the right to ask these volunteers who work in sports organisations, for example, or in various children's clubs and similar groups, to supply their own criminal record, and then to monitor the kind of people who work in those children's leisure hours.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u119	Mr President! These representatives, Mr Laiho and The schoolmaster's legal initiatives are to be welcomed in their objectives and it is hoped that they will move forward. Similarly, Mr Risiko and Mr Essayah's attention to the elderly — just like that. During my first parliamentary term, when I was here, we were dealing with the issue of the voluntary investigation of these crimes, and then we were told in committee that from 20,000 to 40,000 investigations would take place a year, but now I understand that these reports have been left in a fraction of what was anticipated in advance. Why, I do not know, but at the time when these legislative initiatives are being dealt with in committee, I think it is worth asking, if there is anything more to be done on that side of the House to find out more about the backgrounds of people who are seeking voluntary activity — which is to be welcomed and excellent, but which must not involve people with unclear objectives and wrong objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u120	Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u121	Mr President! Both of these proposed legislative initiatives are well founded, but I also think it is necessary to amend the legislation in such a way that even shorter periods of time for people working with children should be checked, whether they are voluntary, in training, on repeated visits or in employment. We are all well aware of how, for example, there has already been a war criminal in day-care centres and schools in addition to many other criminals. This situation is unsustainable and needs to be addressed immediately. I was also in favour of this proposal by Mr Risiko on the elderly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u122	Mr President! Thank you to my colleagues for the good legislative initiatives. Ensuring the safety and well-being of children requires that we do not neglect measures to promote them. These legislative initiatives are aimed specifically at improving security, which is the task of our legislators. This is also crime prevention and also the protection of our children. This is why it is important that this legislation be revised in such a way that the employer is given the opportunity to review the criminal record during the employment relationship and also in very short-term employment relationships. Parents have been quite concerned about this subject, and it is precisely when we look at this time, the age of temporary work, that is a very long limit to this time, and it rightly raises the question of whether it will allow people with criminal background to work for less than three months, for example. in case of substitution. In this context, I would also like to highlight the point already made by Mrs Essayah that more than half a million volunteers work on a voluntary basis each year, such as in sports and sports organisations, most of which deal specifically with children and young people as trainers of sports clubs, for example. The conditions for checking the criminal background in voluntary activities have been laid down, but it is voluntary, it is not mandatory, it is mandatory. The truth that Mr Kiuru has also pointed out here is that they are being asked to do an unfortunate few voluntary activities. The number of requests has been increasing, but it is indeed only a fraction of what should be requested. In time, when the matter was discussed in Parliament, the committees were divided on this issue as to whether the revision should be mandatory or not. At the time, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights called for this situation to be closely monitored and, on the basis of experience, an assessment of whether this regulation should be amended. In recent times, for example, the Ombudsman for Children has raised this issue and has taken the view that this revision should also be mandatory in relation to voluntary activities. I also believe that the investigation of the criminal background must be automated and commonplace in voluntary activities as well. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u123	Mr President! Representatives Schoolman and Laiho have made important legal initiatives. I think it is important that this investigation of the criminal background can be carried out in the future for those working with children, not only in short-term employment but also in the context of continued employment, not just in the recruitment phase. This will certainly improve the safety of children. In this respect, I certainly hope, in this referral debate, that these legislative initiatives will make concrete progress to the law. After all, sometimes the Parliament — and the entire Finnish political system — is accused of not being able to make any progress here and then moving on with things that no one really seems to be in favour of. I am sure that this is something that everyone will support, that the safety of children can be improved, and I really hope now that this is progressing in committee and that the great Chamber will then be able to adopt these legislative changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u124	Mr President! In my previous job as a police officer, I have often come across this very unfortunate phenomenon, and these initiatives are very good. But I would see the need to extend this a little, for example, to ancillary services to such schools. When I give you an example, you will understand very well what this is all about. So 12-year-old children had been on a school trip by bus, and then my parents contacted me after the field trip in the sense that the driver in question had touched and applauded young girls on several occasions, suggesting that we go to him after this trip. The report was then recorded and it became clear that the bus driver in question had only been released from prison a few months earlier for serious sexual offences against children up to the age of five. In other words, this should be taken into account that a criminal record report is also being carried out from these ancillary service providers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u125	Mr President! This is indeed a very good bill and contributes to increasing the safety of children when the employer can ensure that workers do not have a criminal background that endangers the safety of children. But this law should also apply, for example, to those in training in schools. There have been cases in Tampere that asylum seekers have been placed in schools for practical training, even though their criminal background has not been established in the country of origin. I have asked the officials why this is the case and whether they are aware that, since the criminal record has not been checked, the safety of children will be jeopardised. I have been told that it would be discrimination not to allow asylum seekers, for example, to play or otherwise play with school-age children in this internship. I very much hope that this new law will also prevent this type of activity in the municipalities. The safety of children must always take precedence over everything else, and no political ideology can jeopardise it either.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u126	Mr President! Paragraphs 15 and 16, both legal initiatives, are more than good. Thank you for bringing up the legal initiatives. The law must protect children and young people and their integrity and security in all cases, including in the case of short-term replacements. This is where Mr Vallin made a good point, which I was also thinking about taking up. In other words, it is appropriate to point out a problem that concerns families, fathers and mothers all over Finland. Some people in Finland have driven anonymous asylum seekers in schools and day-care centres. They say this is an action to speed up integration. I ask: What does a paperless adult have to do with our day care centres? Without consulting parents, multiculturalism is spread to schools and kindergartens using adult asylum seekers, even paperless, as a tool. In my opinion, in the interests of the safety of our children and young people, this kind of action should also be taken into account and banned, absolutely, by law, in the context of these fine legislative initiatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u127	Mr President! We are on a very important issue, and it is great that we are now discussing the safety of the elderly, both of children and young people and, as we have heard, of the elderly. It is our common concern to ensure that our children and young people and the elderly and others, often defenceless, are safe and protected from all evil. It is also great that the government has now committed itself in its programme to implementing a comprehensive reform of sexual law, based on immunity and sexual self-determination, and that the minimum penalties for serious sexual crimes against children in particular will be increased. This is the right line. In this debate, it was also important to note that even the criminal record of those who work voluntarily with children is being revised a little. Some sports clubs, parishes, associations and organisations are doing this, but I think it is very important now, in the context of these legislative initiatives, to take this into account and to see if we can also check the criminal record in practice for all those who work voluntarily with children.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u128	And now for the first signatories of the bill, Laiho and the Schoolman.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u129	Mr President! Thank you for a good debate, and as has been shown here, there is certainly a unity of will: this is something that needs to be changed. And when it was pointed out here in the previous speech that the overall reform of sexual offences is coming up, I would like to see these legislative initiatives, for example, examined in the context of its discussion. This volunteer work was also brought up here. This is really important. In practice, these extracts are not delivered when it is not a habit. It is only an opportunity, so it has not become a significant issue from there, which is a pity, because there are many of these volunteers, mainly parents. School transport is also a point where, as was pointed out here in connection with transport, the bus driver was equally involved, because there are lonely children on long journeys, it is important that the drivers also have it checked. Then Mr Risikko and Mr Essayah raised the issue of working with the elderly, and this is also an important point to consider in what way we can protect those defenceless old people and also those with disabilities who need lobbying, so that they are not exploited. And then I would like to comment on this matter of asylum seekers. With regard to what the Finns of Finland raised here, I agree that it has gone too far to take asylum seekers whose situation and clarifications are still unfinished, to day-care centres and schools, and it is precisely here that we are dealing with adult people who are being taken there among children and young people that has gone a little confused with this integration in the sense that it can be done in a different way than through minors right away. So first it would be more sensible to start that approach between adults. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-05-ps-27.u130	Mr President! Some have asked whether it could not just be without this kind of regulation to act sensibly and as if to ask some of these job seekers voluntarily to provide this kind of information that has not been guilty of, for example, the abuse of children, hiring them even as substitutes. So this was done some years ago: for example, when replacements were hired to a day care centre, they were asked to give proof of such things even in a short-term employment relationship. It had to be interrupted when one of the jobseekers complained to the Assistant Ombudsman that he would be asked for such a certificate and he did not want to do such a thing and that it violated his rights. Then the Assistant Ombudsman had to take a position on the legislation and indeed stated that it was forbidden to ask under any circumstances, and now it became this need for reform of the legislation. In the past, flexibility was provided at own discretion, but now there is no longer any possibility of it.
