ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The decision will now be taken by Mr Jussi Halla-aho and others. on the question of the repatriation of Finnish citizens in the Al-Holi camp or of Isis families who have ended up in Finland and the appropriateness of their actions. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 17 December 2019. With the support of Jussi Halla-aho Ville Tavio and the support of Paula Risikko Sofia Vikman, the debate has been followed by proposals for a motion of censure on Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto. The proposals have been distributed to representatives on a multiplicity basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u2	Mr Risko's proposal is then put to the vote against Mr Halla-aho's proposal. Finally, let us vote on whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Haavisto, enjoys the confidence of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u3	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 20/2019 vp. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 17 December 2019. Let us now proceed to the sectional vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u4	First of all, Section 21, i.e. Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u5	Section 23, Prime Minister's Office.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u6	Mrs Mykkänen's proposals 3 and Mr Essayah and Mr Junnila's proposals 4 and 5 of the same content relate to the same appropriation, so first we will vote against Mrs Essayah and Mrs Junnila's proposals 4 and 5 against Mrs Mykkänen's proposal 3 and against the report that has been won.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u7	Section 29, Ministry of Education and Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u8	Mr President! This feels so sad. Year after year, this way of following one another is spreading here, in order to tell something that has no political significance. I would ask that the head of this Parliament should focus on whether the generalisation of this practice in terms of the functioning of Parliament is justified in the interests of its reliability and credibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u9	Let's move on to section 35, Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u10	Mr Huru's proposals 2 and Mr Junnila's proposals 3 are of the same content and will therefore be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u11	Presentation of Section 32 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. At this stage, 1 hour is reserved for the general discussion in the section.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u12	Mr President! I would like to present the report by the Committee on Finance on the section on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. The budget for Section 32 is approximately EUR 2.9 billion. The appropriations for the operating expenditure of the Employment and Economic Development Offices (TE Offices) under item 32.01.03 are approximately 197 million. [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u15	Mr Haatainen and Mrs Lintilä will now follow. During these times it is possible to respond by pressing the V button. This hour will then be followed by answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u16	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Finance and its Section for Employment and the Economy for their good and constructive preparation of the budget. In its report, the committee has highlighted important findings in terms of employment and integration, such as the importance of labour mobility, the slowness of the process of residence permits, the need for and strengthening individual services, improving part-time employment, the importance of integration training and the important link between employment and innovation policy. These are all important themes. The Government will invest in all these entities both next year and throughout the parliamentary term. The Government aims to enable a socially, economically and ecologically sustainable society. The employment, integration and competition policy measures that I am responsible for have an important role to play in achieving these objectives. Although my own path as Minister of Labour is still short, my predecessor, Timo Haraka, has been working decisively for the well-being of our nation for six months. We are well on the road to reform. We have agreed on a number of measures to improve employment development. A large number of these address the very important issues raised by the Committee on Finance in its report. In addition, a number of new measures to improve employment are being prepared. Our economic growth, and hence our employment development, has been good in recent years. In 2020 the employment rate is estimated to be 73%. The unemployment rate is expected to fall to 6.3%. According to the latest forecasts published by the Bank of Finland, economic growth would be dwindling and the fall in unemployment would be temporarily halted and employment would not substantially increase with the economic cycle. The new forecast from the Treasury is coming at these moments. The government has set an ambitious employment rate of 75%. With the active action of the government, we are approaching this goal step by step. We need to be better able to provide personalised services, to participate in the labour market with people who are able to work part-time, those who are harder to work, those who are young, older and those who have an immigrant background, and to take care of work-related immigration at the same time. We need a wide range of measures and they must be impressive. The draft budget for 2020 contains sufficient financial resources for all the new employment policy measures that we have decided on. The budget for public employment and business services will rise to EUR 273 million, which is 29 million more than in the current year's budget. Overall, the employment budget is estimated to achieve an activation rate of around 36%. Customer orientation and individual services are key when we aim for a 75% employment rate. Therefore, the resources of the TE Offices must be adequate. In 2020 more than EUR 196 million will be made available to agencies, which is EUR 25 million more than in the current year's budget. The increase in funding enables adequate human resources and more individualised services. We also ensure that municipal trials have been adequately resourced and that the division of labour between municipalities and TE Offices is clear. In order to improve the availability of skilled labour and facilitate matching problems in the labour market, next year we will invest in the International Recruitment Programme, including by increasing the resources of Business Finland and the TE Offices and by establishing the Talent Hub operating model. The Ministry of Employment and the Economy and the Ministry of the Interior have also jointly prepared to transfer the administration of labour-related immigration from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. The transfer will take place at the beginning of next year, and it is important that further efforts are now being made to deepen cooperation between the various ministries and the actors involved in this package. Employment is also the goal from the start of integration. Successful integration measures will respond to the growing need for labour. The resources for integration will therefore be significantly strengthened. The budget for the integration and employment of immigrants exceeds EUR 12.5 million, which is EUR 11 million more than in the current year's budget. The change is therefore significant and now allows us to invest in the whole at a completely new level. Additional efforts will be targeted, inter alia, at the multi-professional competence centre activities of municipalities, guidance and counselling services for immigrants and the implementation of the diversity programme for working life. A functioning market and competitiveness create growth and increase productivity. In accordance with the Government Programme, we will also strengthen the resources of competition and consumer policy. The budget of the Competition and Consumer Protection Agency at 20 levels is EUR 2 million more than in the past and will enable credible competition control to be strengthened. Finally, briefly, a few of the preparatory measures. The Ministry of Employment working group and its sub-groups will continue the well-started work last summer. 20 municipalities have been selected for further preparation for the municipal trial. We will renew the pay subsidy and increase its use. We're putting in place a part-time disability program. We will also launch a recruitment test in the second half of the year 20. We promote the employment of immigrants outside the labour force and in a weak labour market position by expanding the multi-professional centres of competence of immigrants, as well as investing more in immigrant guidance and counselling centres. In order to strengthen the availability of skilled labour and improve labour market matching, we will launch a comprehensive international recruitment programme. In addition, we invest in fast-acting employment-promoting measures in cooperation between the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. Mr President! Here is a brief overview of the budgetary issues that I am responsible for.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u17	Thank you. I would also ask the ministers to comply with these time recommendations.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u18	Mr President! I would also like, on my own behalf, to thank the Committee on Finance and its section for their good cooperation, and also to thank them for the additional appropriations that the committee has shown in its report to the section of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. The additions, the Viexpo export projects, the Finnish-Swedish Chamber of Commerce export projects to Sweden and the acquisition of VTT's quantum computer funding, are good and good targets. In its report, the committee has highlighted a number of important themes for sustainable growth, such as the importance of foreign investment, the need for industrial restructuring, the transition towards a carbon-neutral society and the importance of innovation. The Government Programme is based on the objectives of sustainable growth. This requires business renewal, growth and strong internationalisation. As we are well aware, we have enjoyed quite good years of economic growth. Unfortunately, the prospects for the coming years are not as bright as we are used to. Economic growth is expected to remain at 1% next year, as confirmed by the newly announced VM forecast. We have always achieved the best results together in all parts of Finland. That is why it is particularly important now to work together and to ensure that the wheels of our society continue to spin. We all benefit from it. Unwarranted confrontation and quarreling are not in the interests of Finland and its citizens. We have a lot of strengths, which enables us to succeed as a leader in international competence and innovation. We have been able to guarantee a predictable and stable environment for businesses and other actors, which will provide a good basis for new growth potentials, and we must continue to be able to do this. The government has decided on a number of reforms that will fuel positive economic growth. The choices and additional contributions we make are reflected in the 2020 budget. We invest in internationalisation and research, development and innovation. Business Finland is a key player in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy on the path to company renewal, growth and internationalisation. As a result, we will increase Business Finland's grant-based funding by EUR 70 million compared to the current year's budget. The aim is to step towards the 4% GDP target in order to offset the decline that has continued in recent years. We have to take care of the conditions for entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurship plays a key role in our growth objectives. We must ensure that companies have sufficient skilled workforce at their disposal and that the business environment is conducive to investment and internationalisation. We are therefore preparing an entrepreneurship strategy aimed at encouraging growth and diversifying the business structure, especially for SMEs. The Government’s aim is that no entrepreneur should have to hesitate about employment, investment and risk-taking. Implementation of the strategy will start next year. By launching an international growth programme, we will speed up the growth targets of companies. Over EUR 90 million will be allocated to the whole during the parliamentary term, of which just over EUR 16 million will be allocated next year. Through the growth programme, we will improve the availability of skilled labour in Finland, launch an international recruitment operating model, increase Business Finland's resources to attract international experts and strengthen Business Finland's international network. We invest in Talent Hub in the regions and launch a regional SME growth programme. Finland simply cannot afford to separate our regions. The vitality of our country is measured as a whole. We must support regions and sustainable growth and vitality in cities. We strengthen contractuality in regional and urban development. By agreeing and working together, we will achieve greater effectiveness. Next year, EUR 20 million has been earmarked for contractual cooperation and regional development, and this EUR 20 million is more than in the current year's budget. Finally, on climate change: we know the scale of the challenge, but I would also like to remind you of its potential. Among other things, low carbon, bio-economy and circular economy are areas where we already have unique know-how and the huge potential of emerging companies to succeed internationally. Finnish solutions are the answers to the challenges arising from climate change. Next year we will invest more in low carbon and circular economy. Over the next three years, we will encourage the abandonment of coal with an additional mandate of EUR 90 million, the first of which will be EUR 30 million next year. As an additional incentive, we will support compensatory investments in the use of coal, which will enable the disposal of coal before 25 C.E. Mr President! Here, in summary, a little less, the budgetary issues that I am responsible for.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u19	Mr President! Yesterday, when there was a great challenge here to explain the impact of the budget on employment, I would say that there are employment forecasts in section Y 14 of the budget book. And this has always been the case: there has been no specific impact assessment of the budget, not in the nearly 30 years that the coalition has been on the board. It has been done in exactly the same way and it has been slightly corrected in the report. In other words, at the time when the report began to be drawn up, the employment rate was 72.7% and it is estimated that by the end of next year it will increase to 73%. And when there is the 5000 minus that comes from the combined effect of taxation and transfers, I could say that, for example, the increase in the age limit of the unemployment pension line is of the same magnitude, in terms of its employment impact, and positively the same. In fact, I would challenge ministers to tell them how much employment is expected to have, for example, these innovation investments or skills investments. If we look at the whole research and knowledge effort, let's talk about over 2 billion dollars, and let's face it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u20	Mr President! Thank you to both ministers for the timely reviews. You ministers have changed over the last few weeks, but I believe that good cooperation with the Section for Employment and the Economy will certainly continue during your term of office. Mr President! This committee's report states that the effectiveness of public R & D efforts could be increased by, for example, an evaluation of the support system based on scientific test systems. In particular, public sector support should be targeted at actions that also increase private sector R & D efforts. In addition, public support should be targeted at research activities that would not be carried out by companies without support. So I ask the ministers: how will the government reform RD funding and make it more cost-effective?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u21	Mr President! In this respect, Mr Filatov referred to innovation efforts. I'm glad they can be grown. In our own alternative budget, we will increase our permanent funding for knowledge and innovation even more, but that is a common goal. However, now that we are talking about this employment objective, we are talking about all the good budgetary matters that we are here to vote on this week in the context of the budget. Yes, they all rest on the 60,000 new jobs. And so much honesty we have to exercise here that it is not possible to say that the 60,000 jobs that should be made in the next three years would actually generate any innovation effort in this period. After all, they will inevitably be created according to how the pay threshold will fall next year, how the profitability of work will improve next year. For this reason, for example, the Parliamentary Information Service does not include investments in education in its calculation — otherwise our alternative budget would have produced much more additional jobs than it produced. And now I ask the Ministry of Labour to comment on what the President of the Bank of Finland has said, for example,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u22	Mr President! The government is also making a fair regional policy that is important to the city centre. Regional transport aid will continue and the budget will provide an allocation of EUR 6 million for 2020. Transport aid is a very important tool for industrial and regional policy. In the future, I think it is necessary to develop transport aid. It could better support growth and positive employment trends, particularly in regions which are further away from the main markets. When Minister Kulmuni was Minister of Industry, he considered the need to develop transport aid publicly, and I would like to ask Minister Lintilä: what is being done about this, or are we doing anything about it?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u23	Mr President! There are many good measures here that are now being taken. It is good to remember that, in any case, the most effective of them in the long term is knowledge, and that is where further measures are needed. We must also consider how we can achieve this growth, which we are talking about here, as growth that does not threaten our biodiversity or the climate. It's gonna take a pretty big change. That is why it is so good that we too have now invested in the kind of consumption that is geared towards intangible services and mobility, such as the rehabilitation of national parks. There are many good effects here, and this work must continue. In addition to transport, Parliament requires that the MAL agreements be implemented as a matter of urgency to promote sustainable mobility, promote public transport and promote walking and cycling, because it is also important to consider, from the point of view of transport, what are the measures that will affect the economy in its broad sense — and it is very important to move people around urban areas if we want to act sustainably and effectively, as we want to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u24	Mr President! In the report by the Committee on Finance, we support measures to promote employment and the transition towards a carbon-neutral society. The carbon neutrality of society is an ambitious objective which would require greater efforts. Our opinions to the Section for Employment and the Economy have expressed concern that adequate instruments to achieve the objective of carbon neutrality are still incomplete and the scale of the measures proposed is too small and that individual policy measures are not combined into a clear strategic programme. This is where we will have common challenges and tightening up in the years to come. The circular economy and cleantech solutions are an integral part of emission reduction measures, but they also create opportunities for growth in the economy and employment. The size of the investment needed to move to a low-carbon economy is so large that international and EU cooperation should be stepped up in terms of funding. Finland would be able to take an active role as a catalyst. The measures proposed in the State's draft budget for 2020 are a good start to these actions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u25	Mr President! Värderade Talman! There are serious labour shortages in many sectors in this country. Personally, I get constant feedback from companies that there are challenges with elys and that the Finnish Immigration Service is too busy to process work permits. I wish the Minister could comment on how this work is progressing. I know that these processing times are being seized. I would also like to say that it is great that we are now investing in a new type of cooperation between the public and private sectors, so that we can strengthen our globally important, competitive ecosystems, which include companies of different sizes, universities, cities and research institutes. Finland is a small country, but we have every opportunity to attract high-level technology investments here. The leading companies of the Vaasa Energy Cluster alone, led by Wärtsilä, will invest more than one billion in the coming years, and these good examples can be found all over Finland and more are needed. It is good and important that the Ministry of Employment and the Economy engages in an active dialogue with these urban areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u26	Mr President! I would like to say that this employment situation at the moment requires very detailed means and one of these, which has been presented here, has been this trial of municipalities. The committee in its report states that the experiment will reorganise employment services. The committee believes that adequate human resources should be provided for the experiment. It is particularly important that the division of labour between municipalities and the TE administration is clear. I would like to ask how the ministries have now thought about increasing this cross-sectoral work and, for example, how to deal with this problem when municipalities pay these so-called fines when employment measures are not successful. In my own municipality of residence, more than 20 million fines are paid each year instead of using them for employment. This system now has a run-in if it produces this kind of activity in municipalities. I would like to ask: is there any way in which we are going to focus on the fact that this fine money in the municipalities actually ends up in employment?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u27	Mr President! One of the main entries in the Government Programme is that the employment rate will be raised to 75%, and I hope that every representative in this Chamber will work towards this objective. We want to speed up employment and provide unemployed job seekers with a service that responds to their individual needs, that is, the face-to-face service that unemployed job seekers also need. The funding of the TE Offices will be strengthened, the recruitment test for sole entrepreneurs will be carried out, the use of pay subsidies will be simplified, the flagrant shortcomings of the zero-hour guides will be removed, municipal trials will start in 20 localities, and I think that these measures will also be acceptable to our opposition. The government parties have not only a genuine desire but also a place for evidence to strengthen the growth conditions and employment opportunities of companies. I feel that the best employment policy is that the government is prepared to make a return to education when it invests in knowledge, education and research. But, Mr President, one question to the Minister responsible: Wage equality is also at the top of the government’s agenda. Where does the work of this working group go?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u28	Mr President! Thank you, ministers, for the introduction. That's the kind of thing I'd ask if it's been thought about and how many times it's going through with working life and education, that they stick together, so that they don't graduate and then there's no work when they're ready — just as at one time these electricians were so many, and the same thing could have happened here on the ict side. How often does such control take place? And the second question would be a little related to this apprenticeship: is there anything new about this now? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u29	Mr President! I would like to start by thanking the whole of Pirkanmaa for being involved in this employment experiment. It is important to promote the long-term unemployed and other hard-to-employment jobs. But the big question is what Mr Mykkänen has already referred to here. Olli Rehn, President of the Bank of Finland, said yesterday in television news that there are four ways of rapidly improving employment. They are the phasing out of earnings-related unemployment security, the removal of the pension pipeline, the reform of family leave and the promotion of work-related immigration. I'm sure he's read the alternative budget for the convention, but maybe not just that. In all of these there is a great deal of economic research both in Finland and in the world, that it is these means that can do things immediately. And the question is whether the government is taking decisions on these matters, because I understand that there is a very broad common view on this and it is only a question of whether there is political courage to take it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u30	Mr President! Success for ministers in yet another task, they are demanding. Indeed, this target of 75 employment rates is demanding. That is where Mr Satonen, for example, took Pirkanmaa. We currently have an employment rate of less than 70% in Pirkanmaa, especially in Tampere, but we also have 4,000 job vacancies and labour shortages. So this encounter problem is probably the biggest thing, how we can get people to move around after work to different places. Another example of Pirkanmaa was our example here too, this biogas and the development of biogas for the energy and transport of waste management vehicles to others. We also have another biogas plant in Punkalaitume on a municipal basis, and hopefully some kind of state funding will be made available to get the project moving. It is a great thing that this 4% target for research and development should amount to around EUR 14 billion. The fact that the central government contribution could be about one third requires a great deal of confidence that we can get two thirds of the private sector involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u31	Mr President! Thank you to the ministers for their presentations, and indeed the government is making an active employment policy, and, as has been pointed out here, these cornerstones are important: we have these individual services, and the use of pay subsidies, as has been mentioned here, is important, and this work-related immigration, these work permit arrangements and then, above all, the improvement of this knowledge. But I too would like to ask the ministers about these municipal experiments. We already have good examples from the previous period in Pirkanmaa: now we have a large trial of municipalities across 22 municipalities in Pirkanmaa, and I think that it is important now that we take this step forward in the spring, that this division of labour is clear — which roles remain with the TE Office and which municipalities. And then it comes from the fact that municipalities also receive the funding when they take on a bigger role in the care of these long-term unemployed and others.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u32	Mr President! I would also like to thank Lahti and a few environmental communities for participating in the municipal employment experiment. It's really important. Päijät-Häme has high unemployment and Lahti has the highest unemployment rate among large municipalities in particular. Mr Laukkanen pointed out here that, when municipalities take up these employment measures, it is important that they work together with the TE Centre and that they also transfer those human resources to the municipality. Now that I have heard that it would not be desirable to come to the municipality's payroll to work for them all to stay in the TE Centres, a lot of attention should be paid to this. The second point is that, in order to raise employment and lower unemployment rates, that education is important, and I hope that the ministers in that box will now speak to Minister Kosonen, that at the beginning of next year, when the universities' qualifications are increased and the number of qualifications is taken into account, we will now have those places in the Lahti region to raise our educational level, which is an attractive factor for businesses.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u33	Mr President! That weak point in the government budget and programme relates precisely to employment measures, to the concrete measures we have not yet seen, and I think that there is no time to wait — it would be wise to take those decisions as early as possible, and, as Mr Satonen well said, progress can well be made on the road that the Bank of Finland has been waiting for. Among other things, there is mention of the phasing out of earnings-related unemployment benefit, the unemployment pipeline. Reforming the family leave system in a way that supports employment could also have a positive impact on women's employment, for example. Another point is the maintenance of RK intensity at the current level. It is a great pity, namely that there has been a joint commitment to increase the budget for research in order to achieve the 4% GDP target in the future, and this draft budget does not show that direction. I would have asked: what kind of road map could be used to achieve this common important objective, which of course would also support Finland's growth?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u34	Mr President! The idea of the experiments is to collect and document information and experience about a new practice. Now we have two governments that have carried out two trials of municipalities in employment services, which have failed in this regard because researchers have not been involved at an early stage. So we have already had a municipal test of employment services twice without yet knowing whether this will have an impact on employment, whether it will have an impact on the well-being of the unemployed and, if so, what the consequences will be. Now I'm a little worried that we're not doing this same thing for the third time. It would be important that, at last, when this trial of municipalities is beginning to become a practice, we should also have valid research data on it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u35	After the next reply, ministers could take a few minutes and then continue with the replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u36	Mr President! Sustainable and ambitious energy and climate policy supports industrial renewal and low emissions, and probably some of this group has already noticed that hydrogen is being produced by 2045, and there are projects in Finland as well. That is why I would also like to make it clear in this Chamber that heat can also be produced in a carbon neutral way, and it has been tried on Imatra: when the bioheat plant was invested in a new heating plant, the end of the flood was that it could almost carbon neutrally produce district heat for local residents, and it also reduced the price of district heat, and now South Korea and Ukraine, among other things, have become an export product for us. I would also like ministers to encourage municipalities to try new environmentally friendly actions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u37	Secretary Haatainen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u38	Mr President! There were questions about the differentiation of unemployment benefit and other issues. Mr Mykkänen, these employment groups are now under way, and they are now considering all these means. There are a number of working groups where this work will be carried out in peace and assess what measures will be taken. As such, the decisions on unemployment security fall under the responsibility of Minister Pekonen. Mr Satonen called for work-related immigration, and I share the same concern that we have a great need for skills in companies and that the potential for skills could be recruited elsewhere, but these processes are too slow. The authorisation process is now being speeded up and, overall, this administration is now being clarified, and I believe that there will now be a solution to this. Then Mr Lehto, among other things, called for fines to be paid by the municipalities, and many others did so in their speeches. I know from my own experience in the local government that they are chastising there, but the purpose of the municipal trials is to find an answer to this right now that municipalities are better able to work with the government, with the TE Offices, by working together to find ways to find employment, so that these fines can then also be avoided. Mr Filatov and many others, Mr Savio among others, raised these research efforts which the government is going to make and how to assess their impact on employment. It's very difficult. This assessment of the impact on employment is such a difficult question when I have drawn on the fact that these investments produce results over a long period of time, and that is why it is difficult to assess them. But with the VM we are constantly going through how to do it, and we should be better able to assess these other measures than just individual, concrete, rapid action.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u39	Mr President! First of all: Mr Savio, President of the Section, raised the issue of research efforts — an extremely important issue in which we are lagging behind the competitors, and we must raise them, as we are now about to raise them. We are already working on a road map for the RD, which will be presented next spring. It's working with OKM. The preparatory work has also increased the tax deduction for companies that are carrying out research and development work with universities, universities and research institutes, and I hope that this will get off the ground. Mr Pylväs then asked about the transport aid: Transport aid is the only change at the moment that it will become permanent. It's the change that's happened. I do not believe that any further investigation is currently taking place within the Ministry. Then Mr Holopainen: Investing in climate change — climate change is the only global driver for investment at the moment. You will find nothing global other than climate change to mobilise investment, and the world is currently screaming for investment. Among other things, interest rates are therefore low that no investment can be mobilised. They're unhealthy down there. Then you raised the question of the MAL agreements, that they will hopefully be implemented. They will certainly not be fully implemented. There is quite a clear reason for this: these six cities have come up with 14 billion proposals, with 700 million earmarked for it in the VM, which means that 5% can be implemented. Mr Pirttilahti then raised the issue of biogas: we have a biogas programme launched and EUR 5 million has been earmarked for its implementation next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u40	Mr President! In a presentation, the Minister raised this 36% activation rate in these public employment and entrepreneurship activities, which seems rather high. First of all, it would be interesting to know how much of this comes from the STM article, i.e. the practice of people being able to use unemployment support for these active activities, such as start-up and pay support. And in this context you said that public employment services are intended to rely as much as possible on researched information — which is, of course, very much to be welcomed — and on impact analysis. I would like to ask whether there is a similar transparency and analysis of the purpose of integration measures, which also belongs here to public employment and entrepreneurship services, and precisely to use these tougher criteria, such as the impact on net tax payments, employment and also qualifications.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u41	Mr President! Thank you to the ministers for a good introduction. The future of Finland will be safeguarded only through economic activities. Finland has 90,000 employer companies, of which 20,000 have been organised. Only a universally binding collective agreement will be observed in 50,000 companies, with limited possibilities for local agreement. When a local agreement is made between the employer and the employees, for example, on working hours in an organised company, the corresponding agreement in non-organised companies is illegal. If all companies could apply the same rules of settlement, these 50,000 companies would certainly be more courageous to hire new employees or alternatively to survive difficult times without dismissal. Finnish Entrepreneurs have estimated up to 15,000 jobs as an employment impact. I would like to ask: what does the government programme's record of promoting local reconciliation mean in practice?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u42	Mr President! It is absolutely excellent that cooperation between ministers is truly effective. It is the cooperation of these two ministers that determines quite a lot how jobs are created in Finland. I would like this labour force to be able to look at the fact that, now that we have these labour trials and they are concentrated in growth centres in our region, I was so surprised that in peripheral municipalities unemployment is up to 10 percentage points higher than in those central places, these peripheral municipalities did not get involved. That's what I'm wondering. I hope that it will be given a little more in-depth consideration as to why I did. The second point is, of course, this: if you want jobs in rural municipalities and in Finland as a whole, then promoting the bioeconomy is the number one thing and it is a necessity. Yesterday I read with horror the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court to refuse a wind farm near Kajaani. The decision of the Northern Finland Administrative Court was annulled and it was found that wolves were disturbed by windmills coming near Kajaani. If there really is a situation in this country where the soul life of wolves moving around in areas is disturbed by the fact that there is investment in the bioeconomy,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u43	Mr President! The government is seeking a 75% employment rate. This requires that we actively invest in labour policy and its resources. We have fallen short of the other Nordic countries in many ways. With the most significant resources, this government will strengthen individual employment services for the unemployed. The aim is to provide timely and well-targeted services rather than squatting. On the other hand, next year the government will make significant efforts to increase pay support. As a result, more and more hard-to-work people get caught up in the work. It is very important that the government intends to facilitate the situation of those who are able to work part-time. It is also very important that the government conducts a municipal experiment and promotes work-related immigration. In addition, the Government also ensures the integration of immigrants and the promotion of employment. I am very pleased that the government is making a human labour policy. At the end of this too, I would like to join Mr Kontula in drawing attention to the fact that I hope that research data will be taken into account as much as possible in the municipal experiment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u44	Mr President! When you look at these opposition protests, you see that, in fact, this government's labour and economic policy has very broad support for the whole Parliament. There are statements from the Finns, but not many budget proposals. The assembly has effective repentance: there is an appropriation for those who were neglected with determination during the previous period. As a result, the new ministers have good backrests in Parliament to work on. Here, these additional actions on the stick line, perhaps even in that section of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, were brought up from the assembly, but there is a warning example of this active model. Now, just Monday, after the Finnish Centre for Pensions studied the information that in 2018 those activities increased 1,600 disability pension applications from unemployed applicants, and considering that it was probably similar in the previous year, thousands of unemployed job seekers have actively retired. So pension orientation has been the result of its active model. These negative consequences must be avoided and the measures taken to promote employment taken carefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u45	Mr President! Ministers, how will the government's employment supplement improve the economic dependency ratio and reduce the tax wedge? How does the government intend to create new jobs in the private sector during its term? That's where they need them. Wage support is a means of recycling tax money, it hardly creates more jobs for the private side. How does the government intend to ensure that municipal trials do not result in the expansion of the public sector, not organisations in municipalities or the state, but in generating results? And how do you make sure that experiments do not become just mingling clubs without verifiable, real results for the economy?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u46	Mr President! This government's employment target of 75% is fully supported, and I would like to remind you that we are also in favour of balancing the state finances at the end of this parliamentary term. However, these recent forecasts of economic growth — 0.9 % for the Bank of Finland and 1.6% for the Ministry of Finance — do not reflect that objective as easily as possible. I am thinking of the fact that when you spoke about this programme for international growth — that is an excellent thing — you spoke about your concern about the availability of skilled labour, we share that concern entirely. There has been talk here about the management of long-term unemployment, about the treatment of youth unemployment, about the inclusion of part-time workers in the labour market, but in fact, when we talk about international growth and increasing labour productivity, then we must also focus on academic unemployment. Unfortunately, it has increased, and I hope that Minister Haatainen will take this specific examination of academic unemployment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u47	Mr President! Businesses and entrepreneurship are really key players. When you consider all the main challenges of the Government Programme, and hence the major challenges facing Finnish society as a whole, you can only tackle the employment objective and climate and environmental challenges through growing, developing companies. Much of the new jobs will be created specifically for small and medium-sized enterprises and, as we know, the tackling of environmental challenges will also result in bold and innovative companies discovering and commercialising new ones. I would like to thank you for the good proposals that are being made, for example, with regard to the increase in R & D appropriations and the investment in training, but I am also particularly concerned about this problem of a point which many other representatives have referred to. It and these companies' growing recruitment difficulties
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u48	Mr President! Espoo has also been pleased to welcome access to this very important municipal experiment. This kind of action will shed light on the local authority, and this will give us greater responsibility for this common important issue as well. But even this cannot affect the fact that this age pyramid in Finland is currently very unfavourable to the maintenance of the welfare society. That is why we also need skilled labour outside our country’s borders. There has been a lot of talk here about how to ensure that students who have arrived in Finland can stay here better. I know that Sanna Marin's government programme has made good records of this too — perhaps the Minister could tell us more about these.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u49	Mr President! We have a group of people, most of whom do not appear in any of the statistics of the TE Offices and others, because the threshold at the door of the TE Office is far too high. This group, estimated at up to some 30,000 people, is young and young adults diagnosed with neuropsychiatric syndrome, i.e. from the spectrum of autism, ADHD, Asperger syndrome. Their biggest problem is operating control problems that do not appear on top of them. Most of these people would like to work, but that threshold is indeed high. Personal assistance in applying for unemployment benefit or applying for a job is not really available because the level of competence is low. Have you thought in the Ministry that this group would be of benefit to us in the workplace, because there is a great deal of competence and that these experiments would also take account of the employment potential of this group?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u50	Mr President! Mr Filatov said earlier that throughout the 30 years — if I understood correctly — he had been in the house, no attempt has been made to ask or demand the employment impact of the government's budget proposal, given the whole budget. Mr Filatov, in the 40 years I have been here, I do not remember ever having been so severely criticised for the figures received by the information service as has now been criticised. And when you say and many others say that the figures for the information service, which show that next year's budget will reduce employment by 5,000 people, are based on an overly narrow analysis of the matter, which is in itself a well-founded argument, I have pushed forward and stepped up, where then are the figures that will reflect the overall impact of the budget on employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u51	Mr President! I would like to thank the representative of Estonia for the very constructive speech that has just been made, which has shown, among other things, that we have very common objectives: raising the employment rate to 75% and the balance between public finances in 2023. Now that this general economic development and forecasts for both the global economy and the Finnish economy are challenging us all with regard to these objectives, it is very important that the general, you can say, atmosphere for business and business remain positive and that we have a stable operating environment. Now I would like to thank the ministers, both Minister Lintilä and Mr Haatai, for the fact that these proposals are exactly the same as they are creating a positive momentum there. For example, there is an increase of 70 million in aid-related funding from Business Finland, which is very positive. Similarly, I would like to thank you for that international recruitment programme. One of the biggest obstacles to growth is the shortage of labour throughout Finland at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u52	Mr President! Thank you to the ministers for the good introductions. The opposition has been accused during this year of pushing industry away from Finland, especially in the context of the climate objective. Actually, the line is the opposite. This budget strengthens Finland's position as a responsibility-holder of expertise and sustainable solutions for the world. Of course, we will not be ready yet, but in a year's time we will have to have an even more impressive budget on the table for a low-carbon world. On the way there, when doing it, we need to focus on the essentials, we need to base our decisions on science and measure the things that matter. The energy economy and energy policy should focus not on the share of renewables but on emissions, resource efficiency and nature conservation. Therefore, in addition to the wind, the sun, soil heat, we should ensure that the conditions for investment, such as synthetic fuels, nuclear power, especially small series-produced power plants, are in place. The bioeconomy needs to focus on quality, not quantity, and the limits set by biodiversity and carbon sequestration must be taken into account when investing in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u53	Mr President! The government has committed itself to the necessary measures to create 60,000 jobs and to the 75% employment target. The employment objective will be achieved by better employing part-time workers, by getting people back to work on disability pensions and long-term unemployment, by leading people to remain in employment at least until the official retirement age, by getting foreign speakers to work already in the country and by increasing work-related immigration. In addition to this, greater attention must also be paid to the employment of young people. I would like to ask the Minister in charge: what plans are currently under way for the employment of part-time workers?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u54	Congressman Koponen. After that, ministers will have to speak for two minutes, and it may be that we will then have to stop the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u55	Mr President! Indeed, yesterday the Bank of Finland weakened its own forecast of economic growth. According to that forecast, economic growth will slow down to 0.9% next year. According to the Bank of Finland, the high economic cycle is over in Finland and growth is slowing down due to the deterioration of the international economy. According to the Bank of Finland's estimate, employment will not increase next year either. In other words, employment would not increase next year. This is a big conflict with all the goals of the government. Minister Lintilä, is the Bank of Finland right, and if it is right, what will the government do about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u56	I will correct what has just been said: when I look at the number of speeches that have been made by the groups, the Left Alliance will have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u57	Mr President! Thank you for this opportunity. — I drew attention to this management of long-term unemployment and to the way in which it has now taken advantage of organisations. There are very many opportunities to get exactly this kind of work, which will rehabilitate those people. They get that job back, and then they get better access to the free market when they get their own work better and, in a way, with a little more professionalism. But what I am very concerned about is the issue of Eastern Finland, and I ask you, Minister. From Lintilä about the situation when we have a very bad age structure. When I went there last summer, I went around businesses, and they told me of such concern that they really have to think that if you don't get enough manpower, then will their businesses be located there in Eastern Finland. And I ask: how have we considered this situation so that we can have sufficient employment opportunities in our region for the whole of Eastern Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u58	Mr President! When asked about those who are able to work part time, this disability programme is in the pipeline, and this is a really big deal, because there is a lot of potential that could be gained on the labour market with the right measures. Face-to-face: The Ministry of Education has a budget of EUR 20 million from TEA, and now it is intended to train experts specifically, to acquire skills in areas that are these bottlenecks. We must ensure that we have a skilled workforce, and education is now a precise means of doing so. With regard to pay subsidies: I would like to stress that pay subsidies are therefore a way for people to get back to work and get a new chance of self-employment on their own in the private labour market, that is to say, an intermediate way of helping the unemployed to get back to work. Mr Guzenina then asked about the stay of the students in the country. There are now plans for actions to do this at local level, in the context of higher education institutions, to create international student and labour market entities in which their chances of finding employment here in Finland are strengthened. There's a lot of things going on right now. It's a big deal, because we shouldn't lose them because they're already here. Then Mr Koskinen's observation about these effects of the active model is correct, which means that further applications for disability pensions were made, so that these measures should not be taken in the other direction, which is also why it is good that this active model has now been removed. Then, when asked how this activation takes place with the employment budget or what the activation rate is, about 36% of this 36% is about one third of the measures taken by the TEM. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u59	Mr President! First of all, Mrs Ranne, you are well aware that the influence of the tax wedge is taking place far between the social partners. I myself have represented the line that it is not up to us to go out and sign for what comes out of it, because at some point there will be an equal tax model at its end. But with everything — and indeed with Mr Koponen’s question — the most important thing in the business sector at the moment is to strengthen the confidence of companies, and it plays an extremely important role in the fact that there is no disinformation for companies here either. Regrettably, many times I come across companies who ask whether you are now tightening corporate taxation. I have repeated many times in public: this government will not increase the tax burden on companies, and that is the point. These are the issues that companies are currently experiencing the most difficult. At the moment, our problem, as I said earlier, is the lack of investment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u62	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. It will continue later in this same plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u63	The general debate on Section 32, the administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, which was interrupted earlier in this plenary session, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u64	Mr President! This is so sudden, I wasn't quite prepared, but here we go. Employment policy is perhaps more important right now than ever in the history of Finland. In recent years we have experienced a small positive wind current in the economy, during which 140,000 new jobs were created, which significantly changed Finnish life. However, this positive momentum is expected to fade in the coming years. There is an old saying: “When the wind, then the wind, will be rowed. “ It is therefore important that those who row this Finnish boat row in the same pace and direction. In order for this to happen, the Ministry of Labour must take more power out of its activities. Employment policy needs to be reformed and a broad parliamentary vision is needed. This issue is so serious that the government must take a strong lead and speed up the take-off in order to make a successful jump to the international front. We have our chance. Finland has always been able to cope with difficult situations when it has joined forces, and here, as a member of the opposition party, I also have a strong view of the mirror: am I prepared to engage in cooperation that would bring the best possible results? I'm telling myself I'm trying to do my best. This is a very exceptional moment because the whole of working life is in such a phase of transformation. An enormous number of old jobs will disappear, but will new insight, new creative industries, new innovations be created in the same way? Mr New Minister of Labour, good luck and success to you, and I would like to declare here in the toilet, heard by the people, that we are prepared to cooperate, because this is a matter of national interest. Intersectoral cooperation must also be stepped up. We need to step up cooperation with the municipalities, and in particular we need to consider why so much money goes into inefficient unemployment in the municipalities and yet so few jobs are created and we are prepared to pay these fines rather than look for those opportunities to employ people. It's a big problem, too. We need to find active models for this together. In some ways, I feel that as far as this role of the trade union movement is concerned... — — — — And by the way, I appreciate the trade unions, that is not the point, but they must also be reformed. It is not enough for them to reflect on how they used to be, but rather on how the trade union movement would best serve the country in the current changed situation. With regard to business, all of us, every parliamentary group, in our own political programmes, have stated that entrepreneurs are the group that produces the fastest new jobs, so we should certainly take up – as this top-notch project performance has been mentioned here during the last government term – this takeover of the overall situation of entrepreneurs as a top priority for the government to achieve this employment objective, or I would say: that the whole of Finland will achieve this employment objective. It has been said here that Finnish Entrepreneurs themselves have said that if local agreements were to be increased, 15,000 new jobs could very easily be created. It is a huge number: 15,000 families to work for. Mr President! This challenge is so important and so serious that we should not be doing so much politics at the moment, but we should find and tackle the common instruments. I'm ready for work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u65	Mr President! The public debate and even the debate in this Chamber on the abolition of access testing is very often and still around a false claim. Many assert the need to remove the question of access by misleading claims that Finland needs special expertise. This argument does not really stand up to the examination, namely that special experts are not currently involved in the availability analysis. It covers mainly those doing the work, and more importantly, in many places it is no longer in force. For example, here in Uusimaa, access testing has been dismantled in such a way that it does not include, for example, restaurant and large-scale household workers, excluding pizza, kebab and fast-food workers, as an observation to the centre that it reads on the ely page, i.e. I have not now decided to talk about it — domestic helpers, cleaners, construction workers and so on. Fortunately, the government has told us that it does not intend to further loosen the question of availability. On the other hand, we believe that it should definitely be tightened up. However, during the previous period, there was a green light from the left-wing coalition and even the SDP's ranks for the elimination of access. If this were abandoned throughout the country, the clear losers would be Finnish low-wage workers and taxpayers. Clear profits from this activity would only be achieved by certain employers in the low-wage sectors. Since it is impossible to get along with this low wage in Finland and it falls below the limit that everyone in Finland should have at their disposal, taxpayers should then be forced to pay. What I would like to say again about this question of access, which is very often said in this House, is that people from outside the EU and the EEA should come to the country. We think it would be much more sensible to first look at these people from the EU. The government has generally said that it intends to increase employment by promoting work-related immigration. We believe that it is worthwhile promoting employment by means of sensible means and, above all, by those who ultimately bring more taxes to the state than they do. There is no point in importing immigrants whose gross income year after year is very low and their dependency on social security is high. This simply does not make sense. I would ask the government if you understand that labour immigration is not one monolith, although it is always said here. It is necessary to split it up. Far from being opposed to all work-related immigration, the True Finns are opposed only to what is harmful to our public finances.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u66	Mr President! Climate change is the biggest crisis of our time, and Finland's expertise has something to offer the whole world to solve. New technologies, innovations and business models are solutions where the pioneer often fixes the biggest pot. The fight against climate change is the responsibility of all countries and actors in the world, and those with the highest emissions will have to make the greatest efforts. In Finland, emissions are very high per capita, and roughly the same situation applies to all developed countries. Thus, Finnish solutions are a good export product for the long future if we now make decisions and make reasonable investments. A strong internal market creates export opportunities for Finnish companies. By abandoning fossil fuels, we create a market for energy efficiency and clean energy solutions. These will be accelerated by government contributions to energy renovations in blocks of flats, support for the abandonment of coal and oil heating and the reform of energy taxation. It is absolutely essential to transfer funding from polluting activities to support environmentally friendly activities. The reduction of these environmentally harmful subsidies has already started and should be continued. Many of the solutions already in place can also directly support the local economy, they are just waiting for implementation. Examples of this include wood construction and wood-based high-processing products and biogas, which the government is committed to promoting with a new gear and from which we look forward to results. These above-mentioned solutions will bring jobs specifically to Finland. Jobs are moving from old technology to new ones, and it is therefore important that the government also invests in education and continuous learning. Finnish carbon-neutral and innovative production methods and inventions are products of the future around the world. The fight against climate change is definitely an opportunity for Finnish industry as well, and this is also widely recognised by industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u67	Mr President! In this debate on the budget, a symbol has been used of the construction of sand — Mr Pitko, of course, has just spoken of wood construction. In the original illustration of the construction of sand, the stupid builder built his house down in the valley on the sand from which the house collapsed when the floods came. Instead, the wise builder made his house on a higher solid foundation, or rock, in which it stood, even though there was a storm and a flood. Making socially, economically and ecologically sustainable decisions is the wise way to build our fatherland. The government's target of 75% employment is our common concern, as Mr Laukkanen described above. You're supposed to hold on to it. The Board of Directors must make its decisions on the basis of the information studied. The goal is to balance central government finances in 2023. We have to look at the big picture and invest in the future. This is the wise construction of a country. Mr President! However, demographic development is a major challenge for the availability of skilled labour: children are born little, people are ageing. Structural unemployment has increased, particularly among those with secondary education but also among those with tertiary education. The question is, where do we get more skilled labour? The Sipilä government created 140,000 new jobs, and thank you very much for that. From now on, employment will be more challenging, but still possible. We must now continue to employ part-time workers outside the labour force. We must promote work- and study-related immigration, extend working careers through well-being and develop further and re-training. Mr President! Changing working life requires new skills from employees all the time. They're looking for multiple experts who can work in teams. No one alone is in control of large entities — a variety of skills, complementing one another, doing things together. On this basis, it is worth asking how we train, how we develop skills, so that employment rises and people find the right job for them. During this term of government, our education system is considered as a whole. When the skills required at work change rapidly, cooperation between education organisations and working life is essential. When we develop Finland as a whole, we must at the same time understand the diversity of the regions. Knowledge needs vary widely across the country. The needs vary from region to region, by sub-region, by municipality, depending on whether they are in the country or in the city, even on a job-by-job basis. That is why different measures are needed in different parts of Finland. This should therefore be taken into account when municipal trials are being carried out. On the basis of these, people need individual guidance in order to catch all those who are capable of nailing the work. I wish the ministers every success in their work and ask: how do the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy cooperate in this changing change in work and in all continuous learning?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u68	Mr President! I asked for an answer when Mr Purra — he is not here at the moment — asked about this recruitment of highly educated people from other parts of the world, from third countries. Compared to OECD countries, Finland has a large shortage of skilled workers. By comparison, we are in 18th place. In OECD countries, all the other Nordic countries are better placed than we are. During the previous government term, the Talent Boost Action Programme was launched and this programme is now being continued. This programme is now being compiled for the first time in such a way that it constitutes such a comprehensive programme of migration for specialists, experts, workers, students and researchers. This will be done in cooperation with the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and the Ministry of Education and Culture. Then to this question by Mr Kinnuse on how to eliminate these skills gaps through cooperation. We are in the process of working with OKM, and 20 million are now being allocated to the financing of rapid education and training in order to repair these labour shortages in order to obtain skilled labour for businesses. But then, all in all, investment in research, training and putting vocational education and training in order will serve to ensure that we also have a longer period of time to secure the need for labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u69	Mr President! We dealt with this aspect of the budget in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and the experts were very critical of the fact that there are no adequate measures to create jobs. After all, the target is 60,000 jobs during this term of government, but the experts felt that wage support work — which measures are planned there — is completely inadequate if it is to go and no other measures are to be taken. After all, the information service estimates that the government’s budget will even reduce jobs by 5,000 and not by any means increase them. Now I have specific questions for both ministers, and the first of them concerns the VAT threshold, which was raised to EUR 10000 a few years ago, and now the EU Commission has stated that it could be up to 85,000. Entrepreneurs have asked for it to be raised to at least 20,000, and on average in the EU it is 40,000. I would like to ask: what is your opinion on this matter? And then there is another specific question about the academic unemployed. It is now the case that the TE Centres are not able to help academic experts and managers and those in managerial positions to find a new job, and we need new tools for this. What do you think, Minister, if, for example, the cashiers took up these tasks? They have a lot of information about these customers who have been paying that membership fee for years, and they have been dealing with these people anyway, so that could there be a new resource?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u70	Mr President! The exclusion of young people is one of the biggest shortcomings of our time in Finland. According to various estimates, there are up to 60,000 marginalised young people in Finland. It is also important to consider the issue of people who are able to work part-time. For this reason, we would double the contribution to strengthening employment services, i.e. an increase of EUR 9 million in the fight against youth unemployment. In addition, we would establish a permanent one-off appropriation for the support of people with part-time working capacity, as proposed by the government. The Government's investments in research and product development are also insufficient. It is of strategic importance that we get access to 4% of GDP funding. That is why the Group would invest as much as EUR 82 million more in subsidies under the TEM, which we would finance, above all, by cutting inefficient and harmful subsidies for businesses. By the way, this money includes, among other things, EUR 45 million in investment in high-level research for the Academy of Finland, which the government unfortunately failed to organise.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u71	Mr President! If we want to achieve the employment objective, we also need to improve the employment of those who are able to work part-time and people with disabilities. Unfortunately, these concepts sometimes get confused. In other words, we should remember that not all disabled people are able to work part-time. Many people with disabilities are able to work full-time if reasonable adjustments have been made within the working community. Adjustments include changes in working conditions, work organisation and working methods. Employers have access to support for the organisation of working conditions and their use should be broadened and developed to take better account of accessibility and changes in the work digital environment. Employers are still not sufficiently aware of the possibilities of organisational support, which means that training should be targeted at them. Digitality and technological innovation enable special groups to become increasingly involved in society's activities and also in working life. It must be borne in mind that anyone can at any time be in a situation where the only possibility of continuing to work is the use of technological instruments. Mr President! In this speech, however, I will focus on the employment of those who are able to work part-time. Part-time working capacity refers to a disability that interferes with the performance of work. According to the legislation, a person who is able to work part-time is a person whose disability or illness makes employment difficult. The long-term unemployed have a large number of people who are able to work part-time. Of course, there are others in this group, such as the disabled people I mentioned earlier. In the case of the long-term unemployed in particular, the problem has been that the customer's need for services, working capacity and rehabilitation has not been sufficiently investigated individually and in a cross-cutting manner, leading to the exclusion of the unemployed from the services and benefits that are suitable for them. The part-time disability programme mentioned in the Government Programme is intended to help this group in a comprehensive way. EUR 10 million will be earmarked for the programme next year. The Sipilä government thought that these people could be employed by stick and sanctions, but the so-called active model proved to be ineffective and inhumane, especially for these people, who primarily need care, guidance, co-walking and rehabilitation before they can find employment. Fortunately, the active model will be dismantled and as early as next year, more and more people with part-time skills will be able to access individual support and tailored services. Local government experiments enable seamless services, and good practices from these experiments can be implemented throughout the country. For the first time, the Government Programme and the budget talk about a welfare economy. The key social objectives for the welfare economy are strengthening inclusion, creating conditions for well-being and good living, and ensuring equality. Instead of considering how to adapt a person to work, consider how to find a suitable job for everyone. This means that, in addition to the individual requirements, requirements are also imposed on work. For example, in various ways part-time and long-term unemployed people should be actively tailored to work and participation opportunities that they can genuinely seize and also receive pay for. For example, people with mental disabilities are a group whose potential in working life is currently not seen. The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities requires equal treatment for all citizens, but those who still want to work and who are able to do so are directed to a social welfare office and not to employment services. They are receiving a so-called job co-financing of EUR 12 per day, even though they make a much larger contribution to the work community. The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities does not apply in Finland in this respect either. Mr President! By investing in service structures and operating models that effectively support the ability to function, increase skills and combat exclusion, we can in the long term find ourselves in a situation where even rapid changes in work and working life do not create major problems at individual level or in society. While investing in support of people in the short term generates economic costs, for example through public employment, the long-term welfare benefits make investments economically viable. If investments in people's well-being are not made, it will inevitably be reflected in society as a disadvantage, exclusion and the cost of them. In the welfare economy, it is important to be able to estimate and calculate the cost of these alternative costs, and this is what this government has realised. When calculating the effectiveness of wage subsidies to organisations, for example, we must also remember to calculate the cost of benefits from work. They do important social work that no one else organises. For example, snow work with older people, trade assistance and other help provided by organisations such as house-stalkers make it possible for the elderly to stay at home longer. This benefits the individual and society.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u72	Mr President! Finland continues to be a strongly dependent economy on the export industry, and it is therefore very important that we support the internationalisation of SMEs. It is great that Minister Lintilä is there, because we have solutions to global phenomena in Finland thanks to our high expertise and technology. For example, clean water, water expertise is one of the top pioneers in Finland. Waste treatment systems, energy know-how, among other things, are issues for which the whole world needs a solution. Finland should therefore contribute to solving the growth and sustainability of emerging countries. When I have met different companies, I have seen one thing: we have companies that have the opportunity to sell more internationally, but which need support and help. I think that we must be able to overcome these obstacles to internationalisation and make every effort to help companies, because we need more exports, so that we can also increase employment in Finland. As far as Finnvera, for example, is concerned, I have heard the message that, in some areas, quotas per country are difficult or too inflexible. For example, when these country-specific quotas are full by one large company, smaller companies may then be left unattended even if there is a possibility of trade in the region. All these means are those that we should now be able to look at at at the same time so that we can genuinely support the internationalisation of SMEs. I am also a little concerned that companies are taking manufacturing away from Finland. We have long thought that planning and development often remain in Finland because of our strong expertise, but it also seems that planning and development are gradually transferred to manufacturing. Then, if these companies have moved away from Finland, we cannot for ever count on that planning work as well. That is why all the measures we can take to ensure that companies remain in Finland are important, and that is why we must constantly look at our own policies in relation to other countries' policies and support for businesses. As far as employment policy is concerned, raising the employment rate to 75% is a critical success factor for Finland's future, and it is therefore very important that all efforts are made to achieve this together. This is not just a matter for the government; it is a matter for the whole of Finland. Finland as a whole must succeed in increasing employment if we want to create a future for today's welfare society. The government is doing a number of things. The individual employment service is an important example. Unfortunately, in Satakunta we have also heard bad news recently. The abolition of one UPM machine and the abolition of the Amcor plant in Eura, for example, will lead to a major setback in the traditional paper industry in our region. In this regard, this individual employment service is crucial because papermen may not be able to find directly similar work, but they are strong in the process industry. That is why we should be able, through individual services, to direct them from work directly to work. Funding of TE Offices is important at this point. In the case of Satakunta, we also need more funding for employment in order to be able to respond to such a strong increase in the number of job seekers. What is also important is this recruitment of the first employee of self-employed people: how to help and bring solutions to self-employed people. It is also a good and important opening. With these measures, I believe that we are on our way to raising the employment rate to 75%.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u73	Mr President! The Government's draft budget for next year shows that we are now investing in the conditions for work and growth. This government wants to invest in an active employment policy based on more individualised services, a strong increase in the use of pay subsidies, increasing the responsibility of municipalities, labour immigration and the supply of experts. The government has committed itself to the necessary measures to create 60,000 jobs and to the 75% employment target. In order to achieve this objective, the government will implement employment measures that reduce periods of unemployment, facilitate the matching of job seekers and employers, as well as access to skilled labour in enterprises. The employment objective will be achieved by better employing part-time workers, getting people back to work on disability pensions and long-term unemployment, bringing people to work at least until the official retirement age, getting foreign speakers to work in the country and increasing work-related immigration. In addition to this, more attention must also be paid to the employment of young people. Mr President! Next year, the Government will make a significant contribution to increasing pay support. The use of pay subsidies will be promoted by simplifying and speeding up the pay support process, by reducing red tape for employers and by more closely linking other services to pay support. In order to respond to the labour shortage of enterprises, the government invests in education and skills at different levels of education and training, among other things. The recruitment of foreign experts will be facilitated by, among other things, reforming permit practices and creating an international recruitment model through which recruitment processes will be more effective and also take into account the rules of fair working life. Unemployment security and services for the unemployed will be reformed so that services and job search obligations will be based on an individual employment plan in the future. The active model will be dismantled and the management system will be reformed to be more equal and more humane. With these measures, the Government seeks to increase the activation rate and takes a direction towards the Nordic level of employment management.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u74	Mr President! The previous speaker, Mr Berg, said about the government's efforts to invest in the conditions for work and growth. I wish that were the case, but the problem is that we are not investing. The government's speeches and actions do not come face-to-face. The credibility of the government programme rests on employment growth. However, the government lacks fully effective employment measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u77	Minister Lintilä will soon have to leave, so let's give him a chance to respond. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u78	Mr President! A few clear questions have come up here. First, Mr Kauma, to this VAT threshold: It is now in preparation that it should be raised to the 15,000. That, in my opinion, is two rather difficult things. When you go to VAT, you're at the very core of taxation. The VAT-side is the hardest stone foot on the Finnish fiscal side. On the other hand, international comparisons are very difficult because the structure of tax systems differs from one country to another. It can be said that in the Nordic countries it is quite close to the same, but there are also differences. This international comparison may be a little difficult in this regard. Personally, I'd be a little careful shooting holes in that hard core of taxation. Of course, you can say that we have the skills that can be sold, which is subject to VAT, and if they raise that limit, I think the consultants will thank you for this. Then, of course, there is the side that invests and brings goods. So this isn't an easy question. Then, Mr Salonen, this international side: the issue of infinite importance. - Well, he's gone. — We must always remember that 40% of our GDP comes from exports, and we need more international trade. More export trips should be made. The last time I was in this current position, I did a lot of them, and that feedback is very positive. In Finland, we have the great thing about companies blowing well together, so there is usually a big locomotive company behind its shoulders, and smaller companies come from the soft side or elsewhere. And we have a lot to take from Finland, so we should do this. He referred to how companies would then be included in these services. We have been working on the Business Finland side all the time to lower the threshold, i.e. at the lowest possible threshold, and of course, as an uncle, we can say that the young generation is no longer talking about export trade, but is talking about international trade, and that is what it is at the moment. Congressman Vikman, of the utmost importance. We must be able to increase employment, and there is a clear entry in the government programme: no means are excluded.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u79	Thank you to the Minister, and then we will continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u80	Mr President! Today, one company, or a majority of it, focused on optimization of online advertising was sold for 200 million. This company operates from Helsinki and is just as much the business as we refer to here. The transport services needed for this type of activity are, for example, trams, buses, cycle paths, and such companies need experts in the area of ict, for example, but also in many other areas. This week, the Bank of Finland notes that Finland's productivity development has been slow for 10 years and that the most important thing in the long term is to increase its skills. If we are to achieve the 75% employment target — or higher — we need more start-up places to make people more employable. And these starting points, like all the other things now, cannot be implemented without money. In practice, achieving this objective of education would require around 8000 new start-up places, with an estimated cost of between EUR 100 million and EUR 200 million per year, so that it can be implemented. In Finland, the number of students per professor has increased, so we already have some major lectures. In order to guarantee the quality of education, there is a need to increase the budget allocated to it. And then, if we can — if we can invest in knowledge — there are good forecasts that, in areas such as those where high skills are needed, there will still be very good employment. Both today and in the future, development is moving in that direction. It would therefore be extremely important to consider that when it comes to business, when it comes to transport, it does not simply mean that timber is transported from place x to place y. We also need to assess how sustainable it is to add more cellulinfra, for example, when we already know that our carbon sinks are not in a good development trend, on the contrary. We need to ask ourselves whether we want to be such a country that only produces toilet paper in China and machine halls across Finland, or whether we are such a country that tries to catch up with productivity development more and more ambitiously. We may have machine rooms all over Finland, they work, but they are not solutions in which we are pioneers in the world. Finland has the potential to be a pioneer in many areas throughout the world. Solutions of this kind are needed in order to be able to fund Finland's well-being in the future. Much has been said about the employment of foreign-language speakers. In Helsinki, one-sixth of the inhabitants are foreign-language speakers or from elsewhere, so when this issue is being resolved, it is very important to cooperate with the urban areas where this population that have moved to us actually lives and to seek support for urban areas and other places where support is needed, for example, for better employment of foreign-language speakers and for education not to be differentiated on the basis of the background. It is really great that we have now reached a certain degree of product development, which has fallen, but we still have no other way of managing and paying for the services that our ageing population needs if we are not to achieve an ever stronger increase in productivity. As has been said, this means that our corporate structure is diversifying and changing. Although it is often — perhaps rhetorically — stated that the most important thing for businesses is that nothing changes, nothing in society or in the business field is as certain as the change. And the real success stories are often found in the places of change and in the economies that are able to be — whose business field is able to be —
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u81	Mr President! The first point is what function these budget speeches have, because it also affects the way in which I make this speech, for example, which I shall be building next. Basically, we may have two basic functions here. The first is the purpose of my next speech, which is addressed to the second section. My intention is then to speak to the Minutes and record my position on the matter, and then, of course, to those colleagues who bother to listen to that speech so that they get some points. After all, most people are sitting here just because they are waiting for their own speech, not necessarily to hear my in-depth analysis of something I want to record in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u87	But for everyone present, this came as a valuable addition to the record.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u88	Mr President! There is a great deal of talk here about the shortage of experts, which, among other things, justifies increased, accelerated imports of foreign labour. It is certainly all right in some areas that labour is imported from abroad, but if there are already people unemployed in the same sector, that is unacceptable. In Varsinais-Suomi, for example, there are many unemployed metal workers and shipbuilders. Yet employers in these sectors are talking about labour shortages. In Varsinais-Suomi, the most significant employers using foreign labour are of course Meyer's Turku Shipyard and its subcontracting networks and Valmet Automotive New Town Car Factory. Counting together, there are tens of thousands of workers, a large proportion of whom are foreign workers. In addition, a significant number of workers are already coming from abroad in buildings, services and agriculture. For example, this year in January to October, one thousand work permits have been granted to Varsinais-Suomi from outside the EU, i.e. from third countries, i.e. workers from the EU and the EEA are not yet involved. After all, employers do not import labour from abroad due to a shortage of experts. It is an attempt to save on labour costs. Workers from these third countries, in particular, work significantly below the Finnish wage level. The level of living and price levels in the countries of origin are significantly lower than the Finns, so it is possible for them. In fact, in the background of this much-spoken problem of matching, and even in the background of the shortage of experts, there seems to be a level of pay that Finland is no longer able to cope with. This has been affected by the virtually zero line of wage increases for wage and salary earners for ten years. Real wages haven't gone up. One important solution to the shortage of beneficiaries would be that employers start paying decent wages — well, industry, of course, is paying for buildings, but let us say in the care sector. Of course, there is an important reason why we are in need of care workers: poor working conditions, heavy work and wages, which do not correspond to work. People in the nursing profession go abroad for better wages. In other words, these things are in order, and in addition, if foreign workers are to be brought here, underpaid should be criminalised. That's a big problem right now. They must be given the right of appeal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u89	Congressman Herbtiaho, it's quite full of immigration criticism.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u90	Mr President! In fact, I would like to continue with Mr Kiljunen's reflection on the employment rate. When we consider in that section of the municipal economy how our tax revenues have fallen behind as if 2 billion — although employment has developed positively, yet we have less than estimated tax revenues — this is partly because, or I believe, it is partly because we look at these indicators from the perspective of the old world, precisely from the point of view of going very early to school or after school to work and being at a certain age. This is, of course, an international way of measuring employment; it starts at a certain age and extends to a certain age. But we should know what's going on inside. We do not really want 17-year-olds to work, we want them to finish their school, and then their careers will be longer and more complete. On the other hand, at an ageing end, we have obstacles, such as those relating to government posts that cannot have after a certain age, even if people have knowledge. You can work around, with an action name or something else, but you cannot do that job. At both ends, we should break down the misconceptions that emerge from our old yardsticks, but we should also consider whether the employment rate is as relevant as it has been in the past. It is clear to me that the employment rate should be at least 75, but if, at the same time, the work is fragmented by one person before it, and now it is done by two people, then it does not give us the same employment rate benefit as it once did and does not give us the same tax benefit as it did before. That is why it is also important to consider what quality of work is, because, given the current situation, the international economy is likely to have a weaker impact on our exports from now on, and employment growth is actually dependent on the domestic market and services, and when services and domestic labour are often less paid, then the resulting tax revenue may also be thinner, when we are faced with a situation where the macro-economic figures are showing something and then something quite different happens in the economy. That is why we should go much deeper into these influences and others than we are actually doing in this political debate. — I'll be there. It won't be three minutes. [ The speaker moves to the podium]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u95	Mr President! “I’m sure I’m going to ”when, then I’m Mr President! I am perhaps groping for another sector here, but I think this is a matter of note, and when I was unable to ask today, I am of course looking forward to Mr Tuppurainen coming to this Chamber. All in all, we have different forms of financing for employment in this country, so to speak, in the dark.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u98	Mr President! This employment policy involves my thinking here too, as I have listened to the debates around it. I have always had such a basic idea about how to deal with employment. In the rising season, it will be run by companies and their exports and the profits of the export industry and the jobs that will result — this is how this activity will run very well. But then, when the fall season comes and, for example, when the recession is approached, this role of society and the contributions of society will rise to a more serious value. In my opinion, it should then go so that there are two directions to these, too. Measures must be taken to improve the competitiveness of these companies in the coming boom, and it involves improving these infrastructure projects. But the other half is employment care. For example, at the moment we will probably still have the long-term unemployed after the recession of the 1990s, whose employment and preparation will require our own efforts. That is the second role that needs to be played, above all the employment of the elderly and young people in such a way that they can remain in the profession and maintain the working capacity that they can cope with in life. It then involves the importance of education and the way in which it is to be invested. I thought that if the ministers had been there, I would have asked them what kind of plan they had for this post-employment conversion training. Do they have any kind of plan for it, because it is one important part of getting an unemployed job seeker like this after an employment pipeline to a new job caught up because he has achieved its working condition and, in a way, its motivation to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u99	Mr President! In his work Nikomachhos Ethics, Aristotle mentions the existence of a number of community animal species. These include ants, bees, and people. All of these species are characterised by the fact that they live in organized communities: anthills, beehives and human societies. Then Aristotle also says that man is a specieslike community animal that needs other people. According to Aristotle, a person who does not need other people is not actually human, but is either an animal, less human, or God, more human. Mr President! Man is a communal being, and an important part of community is work. Therefore, it is ethically and morally right to help people get the right job for them. Through the work, man is part of the community and can also achieve the community, the working community, which in man is a type of species-building characteristic. Now that the opposition has repeatedly pointed out yesterday and today that the government's employment objectives are not being met, and in some way it is also being pointed out that the government programme or budget would not be socially fair, it must be pointed out that, in line with this budget, the public employment and business services will come to EUR 273 million, which is EUR 29 million more than in the actual budget of this year, and the operating expenditure of the TE Offices will be EUR 196 million in 2020. The aim is to increase the personal service of the unemployed and to secure the provision of various individual services. These things were also raised yesterday, and I was told from the point of view of the opposition that these actions, which I have just listed, would bring nothing but more bureaucracy and more spending on the public side. But this is not true. In Kuhmo and many other cities, it has been shown that by increasing the individual, face-to-face customer work that will be carried out in the future Kainuu municipal experiment and which will be read successfully in the trial application, people who have been unemployed for up to 16 to 20 years can be employed in companies, provided that the reasons and consequences behind prolonged unemployment are first identified through long-term customer work. Mr President! Looks like there's still time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u103	Mr President! In this Chamber you often hear speeches and references about what good or bad the previous or previous governments did or may not have done. Of course, it is good to know history, but the most important thing is to be able to look ahead. Entrepreneurship and business growth and development are at the heart of the welfare society. The previous governments have made many reforms and actions to improve the business environment in the right direction, but much remains to be done from an entrepreneur’s point of view and work is still to be done. That is why I am pleased that this government is now determined to continue to work for businesses and entrepreneurs, i.e. to move on from where the work of the Sipilä Government ended. Mr President! The most important thing for business growth and development is the predictability of the operating environment and the consistency of regulation. In this regard, for example, taxation is a key factor. I would like to underline that this government is strongly committed to ensuring that company taxation is not tightened and that incentives for enterprise are maintained. Ris-advantage and growth must be encouraged, and enterprise must – and hopefully often – lead to the success of the company and the entrepreneur. This is an important issue for society as a whole, and it is great that the government is strongly committed to this. This draft budget contains a number of positive reforms for businesses. The Board of Directors implements a reform of the remuneration of staff of unlisted growth companies, improves Finnvera Plc's guarantee system, strengthens Business Finland's resources, tests recruitment support to facilitate the recruitment of the first employee, facilitates the use of pay support in companies and explores the possibility of limiting the maximum period of time for public authorities in permit procedures for investments to one year. Excellent things for businesses and entrepreneurs, and that is not all: the possibility of a double depreciation of fixed-term investments in machinery and equipment for all sectors, which will come into force next year, as well as the new incentive for research cooperation based on a tax reduction, will be welcome and will be warmly encouraged. Good work by the government. It is precisely such proposals that are needed now to mobilise and produce investment, both material and intangible. Mr President! Despite excellent proposals, we still have concerns about business growth. Perhaps the most important of these are the availability of skilled labour and the growing recruitment difficulties of companies at present. It is good that the government is now investing considerably more in its predecessors in education and training, both on the basis of qualifications and on specific, complementary and conversion training. They play a key role in this, but I hope that the government will resolutely seek new action at a rapid pace to meet this challenge.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u104	Honorable Speaker! We can be very grateful to Minister Kulmun of the previous government for launching a study on how to increase work in a place independent and multi-spatial way, i.e. how to work, live and operate in more places within the organisations under the responsibility of the Minister for Economic Affairs. Together, we can also encourage Minister Lintilä to move the conclusions of the report forward quickly when the work is completed in due course. A similar study is also under way in the Ministry of Defence, and it would be beneficial if the need for a study were also identified in other administrative sectors. President! EUR 15 million will be earmarked for contractual cooperation with cities and regions and an additional EUR 5 million will be allocated for the autonomous development of the regions, i.e. for 2020. This is an excellent thing. However, out of agreement there are still many provincial centres and their urban areas, often with more than one hundred thousand inhabitants, with a strong will for contractual urban policy cooperation with the state. For example, the MAL agreements have been extended nationally, but many urban areas are still waiting for them outside the scope of the agreement. The role of regional centres, both in regional policy and as the driving force of the regions, is very central, and contractualism would strengthen operations and the future. For example, the city region of Seinäjoki, whose growth has been one of the fastest in Finland in recent years, compares fully with the growth figures of the largest cities. However, it has had to solve the problems of land use, housing and transport on its own. President! By agreeing and working together, we will achieve greater effectiveness. I strongly believe in the will of the government to pursue both a clear-minded regional policy and an urban policy extending to every regional centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u105	Mr President! The government must make the growth of employment in the private sector and the creation of new jobs a key objective. If business operations in Finland are hampered, industry will be transferred to countries where the legislation does not correspond to the Finnish level. At the same time, domestic jobs will be lost. Moreover, the investment decisions of companies are not supported by a delirious, unpredictable tax line or, for example, uncertainty as to whether the necessary raw material will be obtained. Increases in fuel taxation weaken the competitiveness of companies, especially outside growth centres, as well as the ability of workers to take up jobs further from their place of residence. In order to increase the employment rate for Finnish SMEs, incentives must be created to create new full-time jobs in Finland. We, the Finns Party, propose raising the VAT threshold to EUR 20000 and raising the ceiling of the relief area to EUR 40000. This would reduce the threshold for business start-ups, increase the number of small entrepreneurs and reduce the informal economy and thus increase the tax revenue of society. In order for companies to grow and get the workforce they need, Finland needs trained workers. The situation is particularly critical in the care sector. New carers are needed for the implementation of the planned carer size in the Government Programme, from around 4000 to 5000. In addition, the number of starting places for polytechnics and vocational schools should be increased pro-actively, with the availability of skilled and domestic labour. Of course, there is also a need for funds for these new starting points.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u106	Mr President! We are talking about work and the survival of livelihoods — nothing small after sitting in this plenary session for nine hours. Thank you for the fact that Lahti and The Hämeenlinna regions were included in the municipal employment experiment of the state during this round. In my region, unemployment has long been higher than the average, while companies have labour shortages and a significant number of hidden jobs. For that region as well as for many other areas in Finland, employment services and creative thinking are needed here to remedy the situation. I am extremely enthusiastic about this model of Tampere, on which the employment experiment has been built this time again. Indeed, a new income angle is needed when looking at employment. As a reminder that the surrounding municipalities in Tampere received additional resources and temporary exemption legislation 2018 to assume responsibility for the employment services of unemployed jobseekers who receive labour market support or basic daily allowance paid by Kela. All customers had their own employment coach who directed residents in the right direction, be it employment or rehabilitation or education or other personal needs. This working model ended with the collapse of the social and regional reform, which would make it foolish not to continue it at this point when the social and regional reform is once again vigorously promoted. I am very grateful that the Minister has taken it seriously. For good models to expand, patience is needed for experimentation and gas for finding jobs. Finland's employment target requires that the participation of those with a hard-to-work, hard-to-work, young people, older people and those with an immigrant background should also be increased. The Tampere model in 2018, among other things, paid attention to these very issues one year ago. I would also like to thank the budget for the work capacity programme. Being able to work and getting there in different life situations creates the basis for the entire Finnish economy. Just as Mr Filatov said earlier, so there is a lot of flexibility about which of us can work and who can not. Reading the studies also makes it clear that every Member of Parliament should also be interested in increasing labour productivity in this Chamber. As a representative of Parliament and chairman of the board of my municipality of residence, I have been able to look into the everyday life of companies. In some companies, productivity growth is strong, and it is absolutely appropriate to give them a thumbs-up at this point, but then we have companies that are clearly lagging behind in terms of development and productivity growth. Of course, the fact that some are doing well is not a problem in any way, but the problem is that not all companies are getting involved or keeping up with it and we do not know how to support them adequately in getting to it. The isolation of the front line from other companies may be compounded by the fact that the slow take-up of the latest technologies is a bigger problem than the lack of innovation. Good productivity seems to go hand in hand with export performance, which makes this equation even a little heavier. The draft budget of the Ministry of Industry contains many good elements, such as improving the financing of exports, double depreciation of investments in machinery and equipment for entrepreneurs, higher state guarantees for corporate loans and a tax deduction for research incentives. I am also extremely enthusiastic about the efforts made by Finnish exports. Today, Minister of Development and Trade Skinner also stated that economic growth in Finland also requires an increase in exports. I would add, however, that it also requires an adequate increase in R & D money. It is good that we also invest in the export-promoting representation network and Business Finland activities in euros. The question is how we can involve all companies in the process of renewal and productivity gains, where we can dig up companies like Nokia with their RD investments and support them further. This budget offers good prospects for the beginning, but of course it is not enough to resolve the whole of Finland's vision of the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u107	Mr President! The Finnish AI period is a programme of measures commissioned by the Minister for Economic Affairs, which aims to put Finland among the world's leading countries in the application of AI. The aim is to bring artificial intelligence into the everyday life of everyone in Finland with the idea that artificial intelligence is like new electricity. Research and development work is also carried out at the Ministry of Finance. The corresponding and closely related new technology sector is blockchain technology, of which virtual currencies are the most well-known and spoken application to date. There are different uses, for example, in social information systems, international transfers, direct democracy, product security and a wide range of applications where there is a need for so-called decentralised systems. The potential for future development remains to be seen, but it is clear that the changes will be significant. A week ago, we visited Estonia with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, where, among other things, we were presented with the e-Estonia programme, which is widely used in Estonia and which integrates many such public ict issues, and it also uses similar technology solutions. Finland has significant know-how in digital and financial technology, and we would therefore be able to be a pioneer in this field, but in fact Finland is lagging behind the top in this new technology sector. New legislation has also been drawn up on the part of the Ministry of Finance, the preparation of which is practically from a regulatory point of view. Without prejudice to the regulatory challenges and mild phenomena associated with this sector, legislation focuses more on traditional financial regulation than on opening up business opportunities in this sector. The business perspective has not been taken into account enough, although at the same time the central government is investing heavily in the AI programme and other digital services. However, start-ups and projects focus on where legislation and business conditions are favourable. This is the case, for example, in Estonia, Lithuania and Switzerland, where very strong blockchain technology concentrations have developed with the involvement of companies and public administrations. In the United States, the CFTC, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, is very actively investigating virtual currencies. Anyone can tell just by visiting the authority’s website. Futures markets have been introduced in the United States, including platforms serving institutional investors. Chinese President Xi Jinping recently in October called on the country to seize the opportunities offered by block chains, saying that block chains play an important role in the technological innovation and industrial transformation of the next round. Against this background, it seems strange that Finland's attitude has been rather clammy. The mistakes that have been made can be difficult to correct in the future, because the sector is developing very quickly and ecosystems are forming at the moment. On the other hand, the way in which the countries mentioned above operate and the preparation for regulation should also be a key benchmark for us. Mr President! That is why I would like to take greetings to the Ministry of Employment and the Economy to re-evaluate the technology and business environment in the sector from a clean table and take the necessary measures to promote innovation in the sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u108	Mr President! It's too bad Congressman Filatov left. I would like to point out to some extent from this committee's report that there was a great deal of emphasis on carefully assessing the whole of apprenticeship training and on considering the need for reform that it contains. Mr Filatov and I had the opportunity to visit it last season, at the very start of parliamentary work in Germany, to familiarise ourselves with the German work reform. It was a very interesting journey, very instructive. If I were to sum up so briefly, there was a need to reform the entire working life, because unemployment did not break down, and it was done in such a way as to bring together all the actors, the decision-making bodies concerned, and then we started working together on it. The result was that the trade union movement almost as a whole opposed that reform, but then, after it had been implemented, supported it. And it was very significant: the unemployment rate fell from 10 to 4.8. It was carried out over a number of years, with major reforms. It also involved tax reform, pension reform and then budget reform. Here, in my first speech, I said that there should be some reform of this cross-administrative cooperation, the way in which we budget these different kinds of money — just as the government is investing a great deal in this employment and entrepreneurship and employment will be almost 200 million new ones. It's a huge investment. There are also many other investments here, and therefore, very large investments as a whole. As an opposition politician, I have to say that I am a rather bad opposition politician, because I do not think that something is bad if it is submitted by the government, nor do I think that if a proposal comes from the opposition, it is bad, but I wonder how it will work. What is the final result? What's it going for? And now that I have read through this Ministry of Labour's administrative proposal back and forth, I have to say — or I want to say, I do not have to say, but I want to say — that it is not as bad as the opposition claims. Excuse me, opposition, I'm sure I won't be able to make it to Parliament next season, but I'm thinking that the challenge is so absolutely national and this is such a big demand.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u117	Mr President! First we have to say thank you. As vice-chairman of the Parliamentary Industry Group, the president of the Industry Group gave a good speech. He's already gone, but maybe they'll go to the study. Well, in Statistics Finland's autumn forecasts, researchers Aro and Rapo highlighted the large differences between different regions in Finland. I quote directly from them: ‘The length of the officialmantra has been linked to the maintenance “It’s a good thing Forecast figures tell that if there were any problems,the development is expected to be between real We've been through this before. We all know here that when people become fewer and older in the same area, it will eventually lead to major, serious problems in that area. If we think about maintaining a service network, a school network, health care or care for the elderly as required by law, it seems that many municipalities will at some point come to a point where the challenges are too great and even overwhelming. Although, Mr President, we live in a changing world, surely you too must admit that if and when municipalities are sick, entrepreneurs are sick and Finland is sick. At the same time, if the countryside is forgotten and it withers or dies, then Finland will certainly also be harmed. [Current Group: Board of Directors! ] Mr President! However, it must inevitably be concluded that the whole of Finland will not be able to remain viable by the government's means. We know that one major obstacle to growth is the availability of skilled labour. This has been discussed many times in the Chamber today. So the problem already affects the whole country, but the countryside suffers the most. It is all based on living conditions and, above all, on jobs. This problem, which has often been discussed here on a number of occasions, has certainly been affected by the lack of predictability and possibly the number of training places, and the municipalities and entrepreneurs and employment services have not been quite up-to-date and have not found each other early enough. At least this is the kind of observation I made in the summer when I went around Finland. I received a message just a few hours ago, where a member of my own country's Entrepreneurs wrote worryingly: "The start-up of the Schools of Sale has started. Large universities of applied sciences in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area aim for large increases in starting places, partly at the expense of the regions. In order to remain attractive as a province, the increase in starting places must be fair for each university of applied sciences.” So we also have this in Satakunta, and I believe that there are quite a few of these similar provinces in Finland. He also hopes: ‘We will see to it that we can maintain our close links with a growing competition at a national college of It has produced a high-quality workforce in our country and in Satakunta.” Regrettably, there are no members of the government present so that I can put this question directly to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u120	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Laukkanen, for your positive thinking and looking to the future. In the past, Mr Semi wondered how the Ministry would help the unemployed to move forward. Employment will be developed, for example, in the continuous learning reform group, where I am allowed to participate. There has been a lot of talk about tailor-made training and support and encouragement that would motivate everyone to develop their skills. There has also been talk here of these municipal experiments, which are very important. It is important that employment and economic development, higher education institutions, TE Offices, ely centres, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employment are involved as a friend of municipalities and partners. Immigrant centres of excellence are also planned to be involved so that they can then map it, guide and support people on the school bench. Universities: At least it is not about the centre that every province must have its own university that educates skilled people in the company and workplace. Higher education institutions must organise this qualification and sometimes not complete degrees are needed, but part of a degree or specialisation training or shorter training courses, to get people with specific qualifications. Guidance and advisory services are needed for the Rinna. Free education is also about to take on the task of short-term education and support and guidance, and there will certainly be a lot of work to be done on vocational education and training, and support for learning and employment. And in this context, I agree that apprenticeships should be developed so that, even through it, experts, craftsmen, practically handy people can find their own place.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u121	Mr President! In view of the ambitious fight against climate change, the right time is right now for energy reform. We must invest in research and product development in small nuclear power plants, and I am pleased that there has been government-opposition-cross-border cooperation in this area by representatives Harjanne and Vestma. The electricity tax reform must be implemented with changes in the taxes of air heat pumps and data centres as quickly as possible in order to make use of the heat they deliver to the district heating network. In my view, the energy tax refund system for energy-intensive industries should also be abolished and compensated for by lowering it to the minimum level allowed by the EU for industrial electricity tax category II.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u122	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Group of the Finns Party wants to invest in Finland and Finns by offering our country a new, better and fairer direction — not only for this year and this parliamentary term, but also for the period beyond the parliamentary term. In the opinion of the Finns Party, the national interest of Finns is always at the heart of our basic Finnish policy and its starting point. We want to offer work, security and justice. It is very important that we create jobs, and the government's target of 75% employment is high, but we must move towards it. We need to get people to work. There must be training and jobs for people. We are not talking about the fact that we do not have the workforce, but about how these jobs are actually created, we support the Finnish entrepreneur. True Finns do not want to create a cheap labour market for uneducated foreign labour. We are not in favour of removing the need-to-know. On the other hand, the government must take concrete measures to combat working conditions, the shadow economy and labour-related trafficking in human beings. It is very important that immigrants, who are here in our society, learn the language, integrate and thus become involved in working life. Language skills are the key to getting a job. Anyone who wants to work and actively pursues it must be admitted to the site, but language skills in the care sector, for example, are extremely important. In January 2019, the Audit Committee prepared a report on the functioning of integration. The Audit Committee drew up 11 different items and stated, among other things, that the needs for reform of integration should be the subject of a comprehensive programme of measures to be submitted to Parliament as a report by the end of 2020. Why do I want to tell you about this report? The Audit Committee unanimously stated, inter alia, that ‘In the view of the committee, long-term immigrants in the country have not been justified in organising additional interpreting services with public funds when language training has been And this is very important for us to remember. We will ensure that language training and that immigrants learn the language are given access to work, so that we will also have savings in those interpreting services. And this was the unanimous idea of the Audit Committee and the decision that, after a certain period of time, when language training has been sufficiently available, interpreting services will cease. That must not be the reason why you cannot go to work there. Finland needs trained, good employees, and this is particularly emphasised in the care sector, for example. The Government Programme has promised a carer size in Finland, and that would mean more helpable hands for carers, some 4,000 to 5,000 carers. But the funding for this has not been allocated by the government. There is only about EUR 5 million, which is certainly not enough. The Finns have allocated EUR 10 million to the vocational schools in order to achieve the nursing qualification, which means, among other things, additional training for local nurses, and then 10 million to the universities of applied sciences, which means, among other things, geronomims, nurses, sosionoms. So all of them are needed in that field of care and social work. There must be stakes in there, so that this nurseship can also be achieved. If we do not train more staff, then where do those people come from? Mr President! I will take one more floor where I will then return to automation, robotics and machine vision and how rapidly growing development areas they are. But to this end, I would like to remind you that an entrepreneurial barometer was published in the autumn. When much is said here about the need for that labour force from abroad, when you asked Finnish entrepreneurs if your company is interested in recruiting foreign labour in the future, the results of the barometer were that only 33 per cent of companies in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area and 24 per cent in the rest of Finland. It would also be interesting for entrepreneurs to open up this question as to whether, for example, lack of language skills is one of the reasons for not necessarily finding the author. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u123	Mr President! I will continue with employment and especially with young people. The social exclusion of young people is a very despicable problem, and the future of the nation always depends on how young people are doing. We cannot afford any young people who are excluded from education and employment, whether economically or humanly. There are currently over 60,000 marginalised young people in Finland. Strengthening young people's inclusion and well-being must be a common agenda for all of us. The positive thing is that during the last government term the number of young people outside work and education was significantly reduced and reversed to a significant decrease. Of course, every effort must be made to ensure this good and right development and its continuation. That is why the Coalition Party proposes doubling the additional resources proposed in the Government Programme for employment services and redirecting the additional 9 million contributions, in particular, to measures to reduce youth unemployment. I consider this to be a very good and important proposal. Secondly, Mr President, on support for research, development and innovation: At the meeting, we have committed ourselves to raising the level of funding for research, development and innovation to 4% of GDP. Unfortunately, the means proposed by the government are not achieving this goal and are not even going in the right direction. Increasing the level of funding requires a determined policy and a sustained additional effort in R & D. Private funding is also needed to achieve this objective. A stable and predictable environment is a prerequisite for private investment. This is why, in its alternative budget, the Coalition Party proposes refocusing business subsidies on permanent R & D investments. We propose a total of EUR 140 million in permanent investment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u124	Mr President! First of all, thank Mr Laukkanen for his very constructive speech. It was a pleasure to hear it. Measures to improve well-being at work are also important in order to increase the employment rate. Therefore, in next year's budget, funding of EUR 1 million for the launch of a programme for the development of working life and well-being at work is important. I believe that this project could be launched in the social and health sector, because I am very concerned about the well-being and well-being of those working in the social services sector. For example, in 2018, around 1,300 immediate or nursing workers were on disability pension and the average age of the disability pension is under 53. In the nursing sector, the main cause of disability pension is musculo-skeletal disorders, as has been the case for many years in a row, but fortunately this group has decreased year by year. The second largest group is mental health problems, and unfortunately this group has grown year by year. I think this tells us something about the current welfare situation in the social welfare sector. Mr President! Interesting, or actually sad, is that when we talk about the need for 4,000 new nurses in Finland in the coming years, this is about the same number of nurses that will be left on early disability pension in the next three years — if we do not have access to working conditions in the social services sector and if we cannot influence the ability of nurses to work until retirement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u125	Mr President! The two most experienced ministers in the government of Prime Minister Sanna Marin, the long-term politician, are at the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, ministers Haatainen and Lintilä. This I salute with special joy and contentment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u128	The right kind of action.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u129	Mr President! Earlier in this debate, Mr Yrttiaho raised the issue of underpaid employment or other violations of collective agreements, which, unfortunately, is a fairly common problem in the use of foreign labour. The public has recently reported on a number of cases where the gross wages paid to foreign workers have been less than half or, in the worst cases, only around 20% of the wages defined in the collective agreement. According to experts, the lack of knowledge and language skills of workers has been exploited in these cases. At the same time, the competitive position of companies operating in an honest manner, in accordance with the rules, will of course become more difficult. They find it difficult to compete with companies that exploit underpaid pay. This, of course, is not right from the point of view of an honest competitive entrepreneur, and it is absolutely essential that we decision-makers intervene in this matter. Mr President! Some half of the 100 audits carried out by regional government agencies have found shortcomings in respect of the working conditions of posted workers. However, on the basis of current legislation, it is difficult for public authorities to deal effectively with the problems they have identified, given the limited scope for sanctions. Mr President! There is a record in the Government Programme of the Marin Government that underpaid pay should be abolished. It is possible to take different measures, such as criminalisation of underpaid employment. I therefore hope that the government will make an effective and rapid effort to implement the relevant record so that the working conditions can also be met for foreign workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u131	Mr President! As I have just seen, the speech by the President-in-Office will go well. It's nice to see you. I would now like to make some clarifications and comments on some of the speeches that have been made here. I noticed that Mr Yrttiaho, the representative of the Left Alliance, who has unfortunately left the Chamber, has a very similar mindset about this question of access, the problem of encounters and the use of foreign labour to which the Finns refer. If I had not known who was speaking, he spoke to a great extent in the same way as our chairman, Halla-aho, has often spoken.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u136	Mr President! There has been an interesting debate here today on the work and sometimes even from a more theoretical point of view. Mr Kettunen here went from Aristotle and said that man is a social animal and pointed out that work is the way to be a member of its social community. Yes, it is. We often reduce the concept of employment as a job, we are children of a paid labour society, and we often do not see beyond the fact that we also have work other than pure paid work. Perhaps the key concept here, when we talk about man being a social animal, and we see the importance of its work in it, is not the job itself, but the involvement, the fact that we are part of society, we can contribute to it, we grow into it and we are not out of this whole. That is why it is essential for human self-esteem, mental growth and other development that we do not allow anyone to be excluded, whether in paid employment or not. Here, once again, the elderly who have already retired have a role to play in this society, and that participation must be given status to the greatest extent. We can look at this more than age-related. We also have others, from the artists to the movement, who may be in creative work, to do the work on their own initiative, and they are not directly engaged in paid work. So this non-participation, involvement might be the key concept for which we should always be able to give room. The last time was Mr Meri, who wondered a little about the other corner and said how much work of all kinds is actually valuable and we should also appreciate very simple work performances. As each of us goes through his own growth process, we see there how useful it is to see work done in other types of networks and in other ways than those that are used to it, and this is a very important point to highlight. Of course we can say that the Estonian minister here, too, was already bragging about our new Prime Minister's experience in the S-Group market, then he has become Prime Minister, which tells us that people have more extensive experience that he is not just a pure political broiler, as we are often told. But I personally will tell you all the representatives one clue: Do what I have done in all my years as a Member of Parliament. I have often tried to reserve a week, several days, during that winter break, when I go to the so-called internship. That internship means that you go to work as people do: at seven in the morning, at four in the evening. You can go as school assistants, I've been a street sweeper, you can go as a cop, you can go as a nurse, you can go to a nursing home — there's a long list of jobs that have come along. Every time that week starts, I hope I don't have time for it, and when that week is done: wow, what an experience.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u137	Mr President! Good conversation, great openings, and when I followed from that office, I especially raise Mäkisalo-Ropponen's speech about the well-being at work. It is important how a person copes with work. We companies must ensure how well the staff are taken care of, and that, after all, determines our retirement, and that is how this becomes particularly important. Mr Kankaanniemi, the start of your speech was an excellent start to how things should be handled.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u154	Mr President! Briefly. I want to correct the misunderstanding that arose between Mrs Meren and me, because when I said that we do not want young people to work but want them to finish their school, I really did not mean that young people should not work — that is a different matter — but that if we think about the employment rate and the tax revenue and so forth for society, then we will do better if young people go to secondary education and then work longer and a better career, because this is already proven by the statistics of the present. Therefore, in some sense, these employment rate estimates are inappropriate for this society if they seek, for example, to have all 17-year-olds working. High-education societies don't exactly fit them. Then I would like to say to Mr Kankaanie that I agree that the unemployed are not very interested in what is our employment rate or unemployment rate or how they are calculated. What matters to him is whether he has a job, whether he finds a job, whether he has enough work, whether it is too much — it matters — but from the point of view of our economy, these macrometers are important, and from the point of view of politics. It is therefore necessary to revise this employment impact assessment once again. The impact on employment is made up of a number of issues. It is made up of our expertise, it is made up of the deletions and the extension of those depreciations to intangible investments, and many other things, but the information service has reduced what has been asked of it, that is, it has only reduced the social security increases and taxes and their effects — not the other effects of the budget. And they have not been calculated at all, because the budget has become so many pieces that it is difficult to do so. In most cases, the employment impact of some law will not be resolved until it is completed, and we know that when laws come here they will have more precise employment effects, and that is how we have always had, and I do not think that we would like to go into such a precise assessment of the impact of the budget on employment, that it is actually very possible. It is possible to take pieces and assess their impact on employment, but the overall picture is so large that it is quite impossible. Then, with regard to these research efforts — Mr Vikman mentioned them — I would remind you that Finland's investment in research and development has in fact been falling since 2009. At the time, they were 3.75% of GDP and 2.74% only in 18, but now we are turning in a positive direction, that is to say, they have been increased to the point that this downward trend is now moving in the opposite direction, and it is important that this change takes place. The reason I originally asked for the floor relates to the municipal trial, and I am going to use it here from that podium. [To the speaker for the speaker’s rooster—President: Welcome! ] In other words, as a warm supporter of the responsibilities of the municipalities for employment, I would like to say that this too is a question of what we are going to get out of the municipal experiment in the end. During the last parliamentary term, the municipal trial and the regional experiment were stopped because the government did not want to continue, and then it became clear that there would be no regional reform. But it would be essential that the results of this municipal experiment should be achieved, particularly in terms of improving people's ability to work and of achieving that job even after a long path, and in terms of improving services for young people, for example. In the last parliamentary term, the Ohjaamos of the then government are a good concept and it is worth taking advantage of, but now that young people — if young people go there — go there, and then it is essential that some of these young people are actually quite easy to find work, and they just need normal employment. This is my own big concern that this normal employment agency does not disappear from people who come into the municipal experiment but are also firmly involved in its assistance. And in view of young people, it would be essential that, even at the time of the studies, that employment aid should be available.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u155	Mr President! The exclusion of young people is one of the worst problems of our time. There are currently over 60,000 marginalised young people in Finland — over 60,000 too many. Strengthening young people's inclusion and well-being must be a common goal in this Chamber. The Coalition Party proposes doubling the additional resources proposed in the Government Programme for employment services and directing an additional EUR 9 million to measures to reverse the decline in youth unemployment. I hope that the government will also pay particular attention to this aspect. Secondly, I would like to take up the role of cities in employment and economic policy. There has been a great deal of talk here today about relaunching the employment experiment, and I think it is a great thing. It was said here in one day that these had not been evaluated. I know that at least the impact of the employment experiment carried out in Tampere during the last parliamentary term has been assessed and that it was also possible to show that during that period unemployment fell in a very significant way. Of course, there are many other factors in it than just this experiment on employment, but such an assessment is available to those who asked for it here for information. I think that the so-called fines, which have also been mentioned here, could continue to re-budget employment. It would make no sense to make sure that the municipalities do not have to pay fines, but rather allocate this money directly to employment management. That way we could get even more impact. However, the employment experiment is only one aspect of this role in the economy and employment of municipalities. Municipalities — and cities especially as big players — also have a number of other instruments to promote business, business and employment, from planning to land policy, from educational institutions to public procurement and everything else besides these. That is why it is really important for cities to be partners in moving these objectives forward. In particular, if the government still intends to remove the social services from the municipalities, then the vital role of the municipalities will be all the more emphasised. From this point of view, however, I am a little concerned that 6Aika funding is running out. It has been a very important tool for the joint development of major cities. If you take a single example, the opening of data, which may sound small in itself, but I will take the example that in Tampere, when we opened 150 sets of data in traffic, it generated about 30 points, small business, startups. This is how dynamics can be achieved. There are many such instruments that can be obtained through such co-development. And it also gave us very strong access to international forums, Finnish cities also exporting the know-how of the industry that the cities have. Don't belittle this job. Even if this 6Aika funding is now over, it is very important that we do not just go into individual urban development projects. Innovation and network-based development work should continue to be supported. Thirdly, I would like to raise the issue of research — or something has already been said here. We have committed ourselves to raising the level of funding for research, development and innovation to 4% of gross domestic product. This is where we heard — Mr Filatov said — that the government has been turning this funding in a positive direction. It is important that it should go in the right direction, but the means proposed by the government do not allow us to achieve this goal, which is certainly the right course, but it is inadequate, and I hope for more volume. Increasing the level of funding requires a determined policy and a sustained additional effort in R & D. Private funding is also needed to achieve this objective. A stable and predictable environment is a prerequisite for private investment. In its alternative budget, the Coalition Party has proposed a reorientation of business subsidies to permanent R & D investments. As a whole, we are proposing a permanent contribution of 140 million. Of this too, 45 million will be allocated to the Academy of Finland and 13 million to health-promoting research activities. For the TEM, we propose a total of 82 million. Finally, I would also like to express the wish to the government that the government will turn every stone that will improve the conditions for business operations in Finland and increase the employment rate. This is where the Ministry of Employment and the Economy has the main responsibility, but solutions need to be sought across the administrative sector boundaries. Increasing the employment rate is absolutely necessary to maintain this welfare society of ours.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u156	Mr President! Last spring, in the run-up to the elections, the red-green parties were shouting almost in competition that the time for environmentally harmful business subsidies is over. However, this is not happening. Peat subsidies are living and well, and almost no environmentally harmful subsidies have been cut. This is despite the fact that the Greens in their own alternative budget for 2019 reported cutting fossil subsidies by EUR 217 million and subsidies by a total of EUR 815 million. I would therefore like to ask the Greens, the Government and the ministers concerned where the actions to reform our business support system to increase competition and environmental friendliness are.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u157	Mr President! For that business theme little from the point of view of young people and social exclusion and finding strengths. Work is created in companies, and many would like to employ themselves and their friends. It is good to remove its obstacles, and many have said that it is good to develop social security for small entrepreneurs, for example. I would like to thank the Committee on Finance for the focus on young entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship education. We will receive additional funding for 4H activities and young Entrepreneurship, or NY activities. In time, I was able to participate in bringing this Young Entrepreneurship program to the community colleges in the field of liberal education. This programme now receives a small additional funding of EUR 250,000 that it can expand its activities across Finland. We need entrepreneurial skills and entrepreneurial attitudes in the future. The 4H organisation will also receive the same amount of additional money. 4H supports young people’s entrepreneurship and wholesome leisure activities. I hope that the support of this organisation will also be directed towards northern Finland. Young people learn to work together, including hand skills. They learn that all work is valuable. Mr Meri raised the importance of young people's work experience here. In this NY business and 4H business, young people also gain such important work experience. Together, we must ensure that none of the young people fall off the sled, that everyone finds their strength and place in society, and these contributions are one step in this. And best of all, this can happen all over Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u158	Mr President! To Congressman Juvonen at the beginning, he went to discuss this nursing appointment. That debate will probably continue in more detail at that point: I personally believe that the additional training of carers is not a lasting solution to this lack of care. I am sure you will agree that the current level of education would be sufficient, as long as the carers remained in the sector, and it is essential to invest in working conditions, working conditions and working hours in the future. The current line, where tens of thousands of nurses are doing something other than professional work, cannot continue, but let us now go on more on this subject in that next paragraph. I would like to join Mr Laukka in congratulating Mr Vikman on his excellent speech, and I would also like to say to Mr Vikman, with some support, that the government will definitely turn every stone and seek all possible employment measures to reach the 75% employment rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u161	Mr President! I was delighted to hear Mr Ikonen speak. He pointed out that it was a good thing to experiment with employment — and so it is. Now it just comes to the impression that the opposition is going on two wheels. Yesterday, when I pointed out what the government is proposing for additional funding for employment services, I was informed from the opposition that this will not bring more jobs, it will only bring more bureaucracy, and it was also pointed out that, although this is not the case, there will only be an increase in administrative wealth in this direction. Mr President! However, I would like to point out once again that Mr Heikkinen has pointed out how ambitious climate policy is, that we must certainly remind ourselves of what this government is going to do. The 2020 budget will invest heavily in low-carbon and circular economy and the disposal of coal will be encouraged over the next three years, of which the first 30 million will be included in the 2020 budget. Additional incentives will then support compensatory investments in the use of coal which will allow for the disposal of coal before 2025. I would also like to point out that the government is making a fair regional policy. A good example of this is the increase in transport aid of EUR 6 million for 2020. And as I have already said in this Chamber, I say this again today that this transport aid is an important tool for industrial and regional policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u162	Mr President! A while ago, in Finland, we woke up to the need to lack coders. It was the first wake-up call that education policy is not always correct, and it is good that coders are now being trained and more and more young people, among others, are interested in this professional degree in the coder. Automation, robotics and machine vision are also strongly growing development areas that offer countless opportunities to increase production efficiency and reduce the burden of work. By automating functions and increasing the use of robotics, it is possible to influence the profitability of SMEs and business opportunities without forgetting well-being at work. There is already a great deal of demand in companies for action to support the introduction of robotics. The latest development is represented by safe collaborative and mobile robots operating in the same space as humans, which reduce the workload of work on manufacturing lines and even in nursing work. The use of robotics in industrial production is also very familiar. For example, work sites are currently modeling with 3D technology for both land, green and house construction. The need for automation expertise is tough and growing. Everything starts with education, but knowledge and training in the field lag behind time. In this respect, Finland would have a good opportunity to be an innovative provider of a solution on the global scale and to be one step ahead of knowledge once again. However, this would only enable us to invest in all levels of education in the automation sector, which could also be one of our export products of the future. It is on this subject that I am leaving a written question to the Minister. I would like to ask how the government's actions take account of the growing need for automation education. Admittedly, young people are also interested in this sector, and we must encourage them, including the 17-year-olds we have been talking about here, to all working life. As young as possible, people need to get to know different working lives, different jobs. In this speech, Mr Merik well described his own work history. I myself have started, as I'm sure many of you, the strawberry picker, the nanny, the cleaner. Here we go. Then you know a little about what you want in life when you try different professions and have to do a little bit and put yourself together and bite that tooth as well. Then he gets excited about his own business. Mr President! Thank you, Mr Berg. You raised this matter of carership and gave a very good speech. The real problem in Finland is that nurses do not apply to their own sector. — I myself have spent 24 years working on that nursing work, of course studying on that page, 14 years working at night. I have to say, it hasn't always been fun to take the night shift. — And we all know why: the pay is low, the working conditions are demanding, the responsibility is high, you control people with multiple diseases alone in a large department,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u165	Mr President! The need for skilled labour in Finland is a fact and has even become a barrier to growth. The population is ageing and the need for services is increasing. We have a lot of need for labour, especially in the service sector, for which there are currently no employees. Then we have other, innovative sectors that also have a crying shortage of experts, coders, programmers, etc. At the same time, however, we have unemployment among young people, which is particularly difficult. There has been a lot of talk here about how to catch young people in the workspace. What I see as important is that we start working as early as possible, that we get summer jobs and that municipalities use, for example, summer bills to give young people their first job. They learn how to work and how to work. Clearly, the parental model is also an important motivator in this regard: what kind of family background is there and what role models have been found at home. One thing that also leads to unemployment among young people is the mental health of young people. The mental health problems of young people have increased significantly in recent years and access to treatment is difficult. Access to care is at the back of many corners, treatment is not readily available to young people. We have a lot of work to do to improve mental health services. One way to do this would be to introduce a therapeutic guarantee in line with the citizens' initiative. The citizens' initiative has already arrived in Parliament and will begin its work in the early part of the year. Raising the income threshold for student support is also a way to encourage work — certainly not to be disturbed by studies. This entrepreneurial activity of young people was also on the agenda here. I have made it a budget initiative, but it is great that the government, in its amending budget, has found the money for this because it has been a really important way of familiarising itself with entrepreneurship in some educational institutions. Apprenticeship training should be developed. It is not very widespread at the moment and lacks incentive. In particular, it should be encouraged towards employers, and the feedback has become that in some way we should also commit ourselves, at least for a time, to the employment of the employer who has participated in the training. It is obvious that there is a need to extend working careers. Life expectancy is increasing and it cannot be assumed that work will end at an earlier stage. At the moment, we in society already have certain forms of work discrimination for people over the age of 55, and we should make every effort to reduce this in addition to youth unemployment. One way to do this would be to abandon the unemployment pipeline, so that society would not directly offer opportunities that employers would easily seize and offer a proposal for the unemployment pipeline if the worker was already over 50 years old. The important thing is that part-time workers are able to work, that they are employed. Of course, it is important for the availability of the labour force that we get everyone who can work, but also for their own quality of life and their ability to function. Family reform is also important. A reform of family leave is needed to strengthen employment and equality. After all, in the coalition model, home care allowance will be replaced by more flexible care allowance. The aid would be sufficient in full for a year and a half and a half for a year and a half. At the same time, it would also allow flexible working relationships according to the needs of the family.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u166	Mr President! We have been asked by the opposition as to what, in the alternative to the coalition, would be the money for these many good targets that we have set out. This is an essential issue and the difference between the Government option and the alternative budget for the Coalition Party needs to be reviewed once again. This difference is particularly relevant when discussing this section of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. The difference between the Government option and the Coalition Party option is crystallized by employment. According to the Parliamentary Information Service, the Government's option is to reduce employment by 5,000, and in the Coalition Party's option we have presented the Parliamentary Information Service and other experts based on calculations of more than 60,000 more employees. The evaluation of the independent parliamentary information service covers 26,000 of these new employed persons. Here's the big difference. That is why, while we are increasing employment, but the government is reducing employment, we will have enough money for important, good targets to increase and not only reduce taxation. This is absolutely essential to understand. On the other hand, I am a little surprised at the light speeches that are being made about the government in favour of an increase in employment. While raising employment is considered important in speeches, there is no such action. The credibility of the government's entire government programme rests on growth in employment, but at the same time all effective employment measures are lacking. The Government will drive the implementation of its own programme into a crisis next year if Parliament is not promptly presented with the necessary employment measures. Mr President! The alternative to our coalition, the employment measures that we have put forward to reach 60,000 new people, are at your disposal. They have also been presented by other experts. Mr Government, take and take these employment measures now. Don't overturn your own program.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u167	Mr President! According to all the forecasting institutions, economic growth will, at least now, be frozen for the next two years.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u178	Mr President! Clearly, this debate is plagued by the fact that we either do not want to understand what the other person is saying or we do not really understand. Now that I have followed this debate and listened to the opposition's speeches now in a row, I have the more and more impression that there has been no difficulty in understanding what has been said, other than the lack of will, and that is why we are now going on about these same things. I am not going to bother to discuss climate change, but I am going to take the floor, for example, by Mr Vikman's very convincing tone of voice, on how the budget lines of the Assembly are fundamentally different from those of the government. When you claim that the government's budget proposal will reduce jobs by 5,000 and the parliamentary information service has produced its information and so on and so on, [Sofia Vikman’s interlude] The second point that came out in your speech: you said clearly — and this has already been said many times — that there is no clear, concrete job-creating or investment-enhancing action in this draft budget, and I will take just one example, but we can take the other: we have already said many times that, among other things, the introduction of double depreciation by this government in this draft budget will accelerate investment. It is a bonus for making investments at this stage and it is a clear, concrete measure in support of investment and has an impact on employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u179	Mr President! In short, I would like to thank Mrs Iko for highlighting the role of cities in promoting employment. We also have good experiences in Espoo about the active role of the city in the provision of employment services and cooperation with TE Centres. Cities have an interest in employing their own residents, and cities have an interest and opportunities to build cooperation networks with educational institutions and businesses to improve employment. These centres of excellence for immigrants are also a good example and a promising concept, and it is worth continuing to support. Indeed, as Mr Ikonen also said, the six largest cities have cooperated well and effectively, and it is worth continuing to support it. Mr Ikonen referred to this 6Aika project, the six largest cities in the world, whose type of cooperation is now threatening to lose funding and should not be allowed to happen. In other words, it is really worth considering cities as partners and supporting cooperation between cities in order to increase sustainable urban development and vitality. Finally, support for vitality also requires adequate training facilities in cities in order to provide skilled labour. Public procurement can also be used to promote employment. Here, too, Espoo has been a pioneer. Mr President! Finally, we have to say a little more than Mr Kiljunen has here concluded that the opposition's criticism of the government's employment policy and the government's responses have now been heard quite often in the Chamber. I think it would be good now to give the government time to show us how these actions start to bite and then continue this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u182	Mr President! First of all, I would like to see Mr Kiljunen take a slightly more moderate stance on how you intend to go and advise the opposition on matters of will. When you look at your own government programme, more than 130 times are cleared up, road maps are drawn up, working groups are set up. What is not done there: there is no desire, there is no desire, there is no decision, so you should be a little more careful about how to start teaching the opposition. Secondly, Mr Kettunen next to me knew that the most important climate action in the government is just ahead. When you look at the Government Programme, you have to say that at this stage of the year the skinny are the herrings into Christmas fish, because if the level of ambition of the Government's climate policy is compared to previous governments in this country, it will not quite stand up to a critical comparison. In another government, we made a law on climate change. In the last government we were able to impose a ban on coal, and Mr Kettunen can, of course, apply for credit for his own party, the Sipilä government when it was doing it, but there is no way to get it on the Marin government's CV. Mr President! Now it is up to us here together to consider new ways of curbing global warming. Of course, this work must be done constructively, and that is why we have tried to encourage the government in the alternative budget of the coalition to take a strong stance on cutting-edge operations and to tackle the growing environmental adverse business subsidies.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u183	Mr President! Employment and the economy, they are the starting points so that we can succeed in the future. The mobilisation of the whole of Finland's resources, the basis on which this economy is made for us, comes through companies, through the success of companies, through the investments of companies. With credit for the future, they invest, they employ, we can only continue to maintain and finance our welfare society. Small and medium-sized enterprises account for more than 99% of the total number of our enterprises, and that is why it is at the very heart of how these companies manage, what incentives they are given so that they can succeed and bring us the good that we can then use our own decisions here to target different places. There are many good factors inside for entrepreneurs. What was started during the previous parliamentary term has been seen and new factors have also emerged to ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises in particular benefit. Representative Screaming here mentioned these double withdrawals of companies. That is a very important factor. This is not only used by ordinary companies, but also by farms, and this is a good, very good, important thing. By the same token, this retention of entrepreneurial deduction in this overall package is also a very good one. Of course, these labour market solutions, which are currently going on in the country, should move forward as quickly as possible. The fact that they will go to the finish line and bring stability to the whole country is a very central factor, and of course all we can do is encourage the social partners to get things settled quickly and then, of course, the workers and, of course, employers to know what these wage developments will be in the future. Mr. Speaker! One of the representatives raised the issue of regional policy here. Regional policy is precisely that the whole of Finland is in a position to try, the whole of Finland is in a position to live and train, to set up the family there. One of the very central elements that was launched by Minister Kulmuni as Minister for Industry is this independent work of the state administration, i.e. living, working, working in many places, and now the Ministry of Defence has also started this study. Of course, this backpacking has been used to before, and there are certainly conditions there, too, but since we have improved communications, we have the capacity to work in a place independent way, and we give it plenty of opportunities. This is an extremely important issue for regional policy. Another aspect of regional policy is that we make use of the natural resources that exist across the provinces, and these forests are an absolutely central part of it. If we do not invest in the forestry industry, and if we do not make export revenues, then we will have very difficult times ahead of us, that is to say, forestry investments must be encouraged by the state administration with all possible means. The fact that material wood, wood that is logs and processed, is processed and utilised at the highest possible level is absolutely essential. But then these side streams that will come will be used for energy, as well as then for small trees. In terms of forest management, we must take action in good time, and this is also a very important and necessary fuel for energy use for us, which will then naturally be supported by peat. This, too, is such a curse, which is always raised here from the direction of the assembly, but for goodness sake, people, this is thousands of jobs in that province caught up with us, and that tree burns cleaner when it has peat as a support fuel. In addition, technology develops, flue-gas scrubbers and so on. I am very familiar with this subject. Let us stick to the strengths we have there, security of supply, energy self-sufficiency, employment. These are all the key issues for us. Mr. Speaker! At the end of the day: What is strongly involved in this area of the TEM is tourism. In tourism, we have a huge potential in Finland. We have a variety of good tourist attractions. I myself come from a strong tourist area from Ähtärinen, and this is something that people have wanted to invest in, get international tourists, domestic tourists. We should all make even more domestic trips, spend more money on it, because this has enormous indirect effects on employment in these places, where tourism is strong. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u184	Mr President! The representative, Mr Heikkinen, pointed out these ambitious climate measures, and it must be pointed out what else the government will do in addition to the removal of this coal: the bioeconomy, the circular economy. The Government proposes the use of biogas in transport and energy production through the implementation of the biogas programme, and the EUR 5 million additional allocation will be earmarked for the biogas programme for next year, and the Government decides to reserve an additional EUR 25 million for the whole in the future. But I would also like to raise this issue of forestry, which has also been the subject of this debate in this Chamber, and it has been pointed out whether our forest resources are sufficient. We must now also remember what the Minister has said. Lintilä brought it up earlier in the day. 40% of gross domestic product comes from exports, and the forest industry is a large export industry. The pulp industry — these bioproduct factories of the future — is one of the solutions for preventing climate change, namely that these bioproduct factories already produce electricity as side streams to the model that electricity is generated even when the wind is not. And you have to remember that there is no log tree going into the pulp boiler, but the fiberwood, the garbage tree, and when that fiberwood comes out of that forest for use, the forests then grow and then become the logwood that we use to promote wood construction through the mechanical wood industry. This, if that is the progressive prevention of climate change, and the government will take steps and work to ensure that these things move forward during this reign.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u185	Mr President! It has to be said to Mr Kiljunen that it is a question of whether the government is really going to increase employment and keep its promises to the citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u192	Mr President! I thought that I would not take the floor in this section, but Mr Heikkinen and Mr Vikman will encourage this to take the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u197	Mr President! There is indeed a need for employment measures. In order to reach the 75% employment target, action is needed. I'm glad the active model was dismantled. I'm sure we've all agreed on that here, and it's been really good. We have a lot of work in Finland that may not be noticed that someone is doing it, and it is usually related to caring for people, caring for the elderly and caring for the family. It is very important for the people of Peru that family care can be developed further, and more and more people, often in the care sector, set up a family care company, such as caring for the elderly in their own home, that this work is supported and given sufficient signal that the work is valued. This includes, for example, the hiring of family carers, working conditions, support. Then there are the carers too, and not only have we put forward in our alternative budget the payment of the carer's allowance for duty-free, but I have also taken a legislative initiative. This is a repetition of the last period, and it has to do with the fact that a carer should have the opportunity to leave work while the time is right. The current Employment Contracts Act says that the employer has the opportunity to give this leave, and when it is not obligatory, I put a written question on it stating that this is not necessarily known. These working people do not know the possibility of even trying to get away from informal care, and when there is a clear agreement on informal care, then it is understandable that you could get away from working life for a while to care for your loved ones. Of course, it applies to all kinds of informal care, but also to these sudden, shorter periods of care, such as hospice care, which has been mentioned in Parliament and which is also mentioned in the following point, so that, at a time when there is a great need for care, people who are close to them can stay to care for it. Well, then let's just ask, what's the pay then? Well, it would be the support of informal care, but it will also have to be considered in the future in what way the compensation and money would be higher than at present. Whether it is a allowance for informal care, which is tax-free, or whether it would be a separate compensation from Kela to reach that income. But informal care saves society money. It's humanly the right way. It is a good, gentle, warm way of caring for the loved one at home, and once the government has stated that the reconciliation of working life and informal care will be increased — I understand — I would then like to hear how this will be done. How can working and informal care be combined to make it possible for everyone? Believe it or not, at some point, we're all carers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u198	Mr President! I wanted to mention this 6Aika project, which was raised by Mr Ikonen. This project will develop new, smarter services and operating models specifically for urban areas, involving Helsinki, Espoo, Vantaa, Tampere, Turku and Oulu. In addition to these cities, it is co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the State and the various project partners involved. This has been very good experience. New innovative ways of providing services for transport solutions have also been found. Above all, cities have also worked well together to achieve climate objectives. As we know, however, there is a significant proportion of the Finnish population living in cities, when the vitality of cities and how services and systems, the social structure there, are very important for Finland and for the availability of jobs and the vitality of the city. That is why it would be very important for the continuation of this model to go through with this former arrangement. Mr Tiina Elo also expressed concern about this 6Aika project. That is how much I would like to say here that this will be, if EU funding is provided for it, in the hands of the government, how it will be distributed to the cities – it will of course be a government decision in the future if EU support comes to it. However, these big cities are also prepared to finance it themselves, and it is of course important for the EU as well as for the potential targets in this search. I would like to mention here this subsidised care leave raised by Mr Juvonen, which is also an important issue that has also been raised by the coalition. It would be important that if a loved one suddenly falls ill, for example, it would be possible to stay and support him. For society, however, it would certainly be cheaper for the total cost.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u199	Mr President! Mr Heikkinen politely handed me a slightly more moderate presentation in relation to this government programme, which is said to be full of reports. Why don't we just get out of here and get on the road, and then, of course, we're gonna have to teach each other a lesson? And I'm happy to hear instructions. To myself, however, I say that the best place is always to look in the mirror and learn the most. Perhaps on this matter itself, there are plenty of studies: Is it not precisely the fact that the Government Programme stresses that we are dealing with matters that shows a moderate approach? Instead of calling the war, we want to carefully investigate, clarify and then make decisions that will also lead to more sustainable outcomes. This shows restraint, and I too would like to be very moderate in expressing to you that this is the basic starting point of the government. However, the content is very clear there. Of course, with this programme of government we are investing in employment, that is the basic point of departure here, but that is also the way in which the budget has been built, that we are seeking to balance incomes, that is a clear starting point here. Another great thing is that 70% of households have higher incomes. Here Mr Vikman referred to the fact that debt, debt, is being done — you used the term — by cutting off future generations. I think Mr Eskelinen was very well formulated here when he referred to your actions when you were in the government last season. That's when you operated on people today. I can refer directly to your government programme, including your budget proposal: it is also basic content to cut off current generations, current living people and, very substantially, in a way that you really cut off the most vulnerable people in Finnish society. We're not doing it. There's a difference. You're absolutely right. Your proposal is different from ours, and now we are here to defend this in moderation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u200	Mr President! Employment measures are indeed welcome, as according to the Bank of Finland forecast, economic growth will slow down to 0.9 per cent next year. According to the Bank, the high economic cycle is over in Finland and growth is slowing down. According to the Bank of Finland's estimate, employment will not increase next year either. But as Mr Kiljunen hoped, let us return to this when Santa will be knocking at the door in a year's time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u201	Mr President! There has been talk of climate policy and concern about the impact of climate action on the economy and employment. Certainly, concern is well founded, but so are climate measures that reduce carbon emissions and increase sinks. It's a difficult situation. One way in which emissions could be reduced globally and also in Finland is by focusing attention on emissions caused by military activities, a determined reduction of them. This is where every country could play its part. Under the Kyoto climate agreement, there was no need to report military emissions. This provision has been removed from the Paris Agreement, although there is no regulation on military emissions in that agreement. Military activities account for 6% of global greenhouse gas emissions. The emissions from the US military alone are higher than those from many countries, i.e. many national economies, such as Finland. According to the Finnish Defence Forces' Energy and Climate Programme, the Finnish Defence Forces' carbon dioxide emissions amounted to 277,000 tonnes in 2017. Of this, military aviation accounts for 52%. The climate emissions of an American F35 fighter with high power in the HX project for one task are 28 tonnes of carbon dioxide compared to 10.3 tonnes of carbon dioxide per year, i.e. per year, caused by the average Finnish citizen. These figures on fighters therefore take account of the emissions from the use and, of course, the emissions from the manufacture of weapons. Mr President! If there is real concern about the climate, the HX project and the emissions from the Finnish army should certainly be taken into critical consideration. Those of us who want to reduce emissions will drive other, smaller carbon footprints to replace fighters. And perhaps those climate sceptics who are concerned above all about the economy can do the same: fewer fighters have fewer burdens on the state and national economy, more space-generating investments. And the reduction in emissions in military operations may give time and leeway to curb other sources of emissions. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u202	Mr President! Instead of accusing the opposition of a coalition, it would be essential to hear what government is raising employment by 60,000 people. At the moment, according to current estimates, the government's employment target is about 68000 people away. The Coalition Party wants to improve the position of the unemployed and this is also reflected in our alternative budget. Improving the position of the most able-bodied unemployed who are willing to work can be achieved through employment. Our alternative is therefore to focus on the fact that 60,000 more Finns are working. On the other hand, the government's option seems to reduce employment. Well, what would the coalition do? Instead of believing that we will win people home and always pay for more support, we aim for a capable person to be able to work. The Coalition Party wants to give the unemployed more support to job search.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u207	Mr President! In this regard, Mr Kiljunen taught me very well what it might be best to find out. Of course, the reason why I am personally concerned about such a large amount of clarification is that people in general project their own hopes for these explanations and trust that the government will also do what it will find out, and this will generally lead to widespread disbelief in politics in the future if these wishes do not come true among the people. Mr President! I have also come to know Mr Eskelinen as an experienced, calm and analytical influence, who certainly has the numbers in hand. I therefore wonder why Mr Eskelinen strongly criticises the calculations made by economists in the independent parliamentary information service on the employment impact of the budget, but does not agree to present, in the same breath, the correct figures which he is pompously describing here as historic. I also find this criticism strange from the point of view that during the last period, while the SDP itself was in opposition, you relied on the expertise of Parliament's information service several times.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u210	Mr. Speaker! Representatives Kettunen and Heikkinen spoke about climate targets and, in their case, about coal and its abandonment. I almost realized who wants to take a bigger feather in their hat for giving it up. However, I would like to say that while we in Finland are abandoning coal power stations, there were coal power stations on the west coast of Pori and in Kristiinan city that were in the power reserve, where they are no longer even good enough, and if the power plant in Kristiinan City can be sold, it is apparently sold in the direction of the Far East, i.e. if not even the power reserve here, it can be sold to the Far East, and there it grinds electricity 24/7, 365. At the same time, 1200 new coal plants will be built in 59 countries. I would just like to say that climate objectives are, of course, desirable. We'll do climate action, but we'll figure out how to do it, so we'll use common sense in them and not kick our own industry's ankles. Perhaps that would be the most sensible way for our economy to do it. At the same time, if we stop burning peat, as the government suggests, then we will drive our energy economy and energy self-sufficiency into ever greater problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u214	Mr President! I wasn't planning on going into this, but now I feel like I have to go. These employment measures have now been lauded. Indeed, the government has a list of 25 points, and we will now read them through here. First of all, in January at the evening school, the government will receive an assessment of the progress made by the tripartite working groups and their proposals for improving employment. The Board of Directors proposes income tax in accordance with the Government Programme for people with low and medium incomes. The Government will launch regional municipal trials of employment services. Wage support will be reformed, its use in companies will be significantly increased. From the beginning of 20 C.E., rapid action is announced to remove bottlenecks and increase the use of pay support. Launch a recruitment aid test to promote the rapid employment of the unemployed, the emergence of new employer companies and the growth of enterprises by lowering the threshold for self-employed and micro-enterprises to recruit. Unemployment security and services for the unemployed and the obligation to seek employment will be reformed by supporting shorter periods of unemployment and the reception of short-term work and encouraging job search. The possibility of transferring the majority of the unemployment security tasks of the Employment and Economic Development Offices to the Social Insurance Institution and unemployment funds will be examined. A work capacity programme for the part-time disabled will be implemented to facilitate their employment. Introduce a linear model for part-time invalidity pensions to improve incentives to work on part-time disability pensions and to eliminate the trap of incentives. Using previous preparations, the Government prepares a mental health strategy that sees mental health as capital, safeguards mental health rights and services, links them to existing structures. In autumn 2019, the Government will submit a proposal to increase the minimum age of the supplementary daily allowance for unemployment benefit, which has come for one year. The government's giving a motion to reverse the active model. It's here. In a timely manner, OKM and TEM will prepare proposals to enable shorter training packages to support those in work and those at risk of unemployment. A working group will be set up to ensure the implementation of the Youth Guarantee, work will start. The Government will facilitate the stay of foreign researchers and university graduates studying in Finland and their families by reforming permit practices and streamlining residence permit processes and strengthening the interaction between universities and working life. Promoting the employment of immigrants outside the labour force and in a weak labour market position by expanding the multi-professional centres of excellence of immigrants. Launch a comprehensive international recruitment programme. The Government will launch an ambitious overall reform of labour migration aimed at a significant increase in employment. The entry of foreign key personnel in companies into Finland will be facilitated in such a way that the remuneration of key persons is subject to:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u217	Mr President! And when I thought that by asserting that double depreciation is one concrete measure of employment, I would have been able to convince the opposition that the government is actually taking concrete action. Thank you, Mr Berg — ahhh, that was a exhausting list. Mr President! I was going to withdraw this speech because I assume that we are all sitting in this Chamber no longer because of this section, but because of the next section. Mr Juvonen has at least spoken about it many times. In fact, I would just like to say, as a final sentence, in relation to this statement by Heikkinen, that when much is done, people will project their hopes in those reports, and if they fail to do so, then this threshold of credibility will come. Of course, that is the case, but the government is not here to do these studies except because they want to do these things. We'll just figure it out. That is the starting point. Of these calculations, 5000 and the data service calculations: We are not criticising them that the calculation is wrong in itself. We have only said that that calculation is limited, and that is what I wanted to say. At least in this section, Mr President, I will not speak again.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u218	Mr President! This is where Mr Huru described the fact that Mr Kettunen and Mr Kettunen were here to pick up the feather in the hat for banning coal. Well, of course, neither of us was here to decide that, but we, as patriots, are proud with Kettunen that such black coal would no longer be burned here, but our energy would be blue and white, and I believe that it is also important for the Finns. President! Then, if we go back to employment policy again, Mr Zyskowicz said in the Helsingin Sanomat: ‘ImportantBenZyskowicz describes the situation as historic. ‘During my 40-year career, I do not remember seeing such a government budget that reduces employment. Imagine if the government did nothing, we would have more jobs.’ ” In this respect, I agree with Mr Zyskowicz's idea that I do not hope to see any more government in the next 40 years which will reduce employment in this country with its own budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u219	Mr President! Yes, it is true that the Finns of Peru support a blue and white employment policy. But here we have to take a stand on taxation now that I have heard here that taxation is not going to rise. After all, the government has been very much in favour of next year's budget and has stressed that next year the taxation of low and middle incomes will be reduced, but yesterday the business delegation Eva reported that the total tax rate for wage and salary earners will rise in almost all municipalities when you earn more than EUR 2650, i.e. with these monthly incomes, and that the taxation of wages will be tightened by increases in insured social insurance contributions and the tax rate for all employees will increase. These are also reflected in Eva’s tax machine and have been updated in the 2020s. When we talk about these low-income and low-paid and middle-income nurses, and especially nurses, this category, 2650 euros, goes to the very nurse who does the shift work. Now that we consider how we are now supporting that nurse, this night work and weekend work and shift work are a little bit like what goes on with the rakes, so to speak, and to the cold, when it becomes more and more taxed. The apartments have run away from young people, already from middle incomes in the capital region, which needs nurses, but then there are no housing. These apartments are too expensive. These incomes will then be challenging to set up a family and buy housing and shorten loans, study loans and mortgages. So I find it worrying if this government policy is now such that it is precisely the hardworking worker, the nurse, that police officer, who is being taxed. [KimmoKiljuen intermediate call] True, the care sector is very grateful to the elderly carers and those who are retired. I have a lot of friends who go on shifts, retired nurses, and they will save this society. If 50 plus-year-olds experience ageism there in the labour market, a retired nurse will save Finnish society by going there on the night shift to do it. We all know that, and I'm sure it's my own destiny when you're retired, that you're going to do those jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u220	It occurred to me, ladies and gentlemen, that there are now 115 speeches for this evening. If they're all three minutes long, it means about six hours of work in this hard work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u221	Mr President! I do not want the President's overtime to continue for very long, if that is up to me, but I have to say, Mr President, that once we have discussed these different options, how people are employed, I would like to thank Mr Berg for an extremely long, breathless list. I think there's at least something good in it. I can't believe there's something bad on that list. It is certainly all well-known and long-thought and heard in the negotiations of the government by a huge number of experts. Even after the excellent speech by Mr Juvosen, I cannot believe the ill will of that list. As far as tax relief is concerned, I find it a little strange that if the government programme has said that tax relief is concentrated on people with low and middle incomes — what is wrong with it? Should they be concentrated on those who have a lot of income, which, in my view, is the line of the Coalition Party?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u226	Mr President, I am running out of work at 10 today here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u227	Mr President! For example, Mr Berg listed a long list of activities here. There were good and possibly employment-enhancing measures, but this is a question of scale. It is a question of calling for calculations of the impact on employment. Do you really think that these measures, listed by the representatives of the government parties, will result in the 60,000 more jobs needed?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u235	Mr President! The government has set itself the objective of achieving a balance between government expenditure and revenue in 2023 and would require an increase in the employment rate to 75%. As has already been mentioned here, based on the calculations of Parliament's independent information service, the government's budget for next year will decrease employment by 5,000 persons. Employment would therefore be better if the government did not do anything. It is therefore right to ask whether the government is really serious about increasing employment and meeting the promises it has made to people about spending increases, which are high in the budget. Already in August, the Coalition Party published its proposal on measures to attract at least 60,000 new jobs to Finland. Employment measures in the Coalition Party, estimated by the Parliamentary Information Service, will increase employment by 26,000 persons compared to the Government's budget proposal. As a whole, all the employment measures of the Coalition Party can be estimated to bring more than 60,000 jobs. This list shows that there is no shortage of effective employment in Finland, but of courage and ability to use them. Without ambitious targets, they will also not be achieved. Work must always be profitable for both employees and employers. Work and employees need to be better faced, and we need more employees in Finland and we need more flexibility in workplaces. I shall now tell you, when we have already listed the means of the government, how to achieve that objective. First of all, there will be a differentiation of earnings-related unemployment benefit. Reform unemployment security so that security is better at the beginning of unemployment and then fall gradually as unemployment persists. Improve social security while at the same time curbing the increase in unemployment security expenditure. It is important to encourage the acceptance of work by the tax and service package of income transfers. Services for the unemployed must be developed to support employment. Particular attention must be paid to young people, which has already been mentioned here, young people need to be caught up quickly, and also to improving the employment of immigrants, because unemployment is high. Age discrimination in the labour market also needs to be addressed, and one way of doing so, including the abolition of the unemployment pipeline. The tax on earned income will also be reduced, thereby improving the incentive to take up work. Continue to reduce early childhood education fees. It equals all our children in early childhood education and also encourages parents to accept work. Restoring the ownership of housing costs of income support would encourage the search for a more affordable housing. Finding a more affordable dwelling will be supported by better targeting of subsidised rental housing to the most low incomes. I wonder what the great opposition on the left is to better target subsidised rental housing to the lowest incomes. I have not understood why such opposition exists. Housing support expenditure needs to be controlled. They have grown so much in recent years. An increase in the percentage of protection for enforcement would also encourage the acceptance of work. A reform of family leave to strengthen employment and equality will be implemented. Allow local agreement in all companies. Increase and strengthen the personal service of the unemployed. Develop wage support and its allocation. Social security reform is what is much to be expected. There is still no information on how it will be done. A model of continuous learning training. More work-related immigration is needed. There's more skilled labor. Facilitate the situation of people moving in after work. Part-time paths to working life and the conditions for entrepreneurship must be taken into account. Finland needs more investment. Here are the means of improving employment in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u236	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Berg, for going over that long list. I read it here some time ago, calmly considering every point, and I said that much is behind the study. There have been quite a lot of such studies here over the decades, but the measures have not been taken. Even now I'm waiting for action. For six months the government has sat down, but only two or, in fact, only one thing, this matter of removal, has gone to the end. It is right that the active model was repealed, but it does not improve employment. Then there are some wonders: halving the tax on migration costs, you said so. Now I can't quite remember how I read it, but it's not like you're taxing the cost of moving when it's expenses, is it? They are not income for an unemployed person who moves from one place to another. Yeah, but that's it. Indeed, measures and not just lists and plans. Mr President! In short, this coal-fired lacquer. According to my information, 1171 new huge coal power plants are being built in China, 446 are being built in India, 60 in the Philippines, 93 in Turkey and 27 new coal power plants are being built in the EU. The quantities already in existence are huge, for example in China just over 2,600, and Finland is being driven down. Fine, let's drive away, but it doesn't make any climate change happen when two or three power plants are driven down in Finland, if the Greens who control Helsinki agree to it. It is a shame that Helsinki, led by the Greens, Social Democrats and the Coalition Party, continues to warm up with coal. So we're gonna need an international touch right now. The government has put the domestic strangulation really hard, but these other countries and regions of the world will only increase the burning of coal. This is a policy that will shift jobs and production away from Finland if it is allowed to do so. Therefore, I appeal to the government to put pressure on these global players and these great polluters and not to discipline the poor people in the countryside. I mean, you're the one who's about to ban it, aren't you?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u238	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! I had thought that I would no longer come to the floor, but Mrs Hoskose's speech was so uneasy that I had to come here and comment on it a little bit. I understand that downtowners are feeling a little bad about being held hostage by the left-wing government. [KimmoKiljuen intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u243	Mr President! In this debate earlier, I am delighted that Mr Juvonen raised Eva's tax machine for 2020, which was published yesterday, which clearly revealed the issue of the misery of our nation, about which we have been concerned in the assembly throughout this budget debate. According to Eva's calculations, the total tax ratio of employees in nearly all municipalities increases by over EUR 2650 per month. So we are talking about the middle class, not about anything rich, as Mr Hoskone said in his provocative speech. Of course, I understand that if a bit of a world view has been put in place here in Parliament, as seems to be the case with Mrs Hoskose or her party colleague, Anne Kalmar, who always tells me how the coalition only drives tax reductions for the rich so that they can travel abroad. That is not the point. With these annual incomes, people often wonder how they can pay for such things as their children’s leisure expenses — there are no thoughts of any loss of travel abroad or even more so, even though they may have earned their vacations at times. At the meeting we are concerned that the government will leave less of the income at the end of the month to those hardworking nurses, hardworking teachers, hardworking truckers and other people who form the backbone of our nation who deserve to keep the fruits of their own work so that they can develop themselves, their families and their own neighborhood.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u244	Mr President! Thank you for your previous verbal performance. I always admire when a person is able to express the purposes and purposes of his speech, but now a very small comment: yes, we in the public sector have those so-called middle income people who greet the government’s policy that money be given to the municipality to cover the cost of cutting holiday money and holiday money from now on and by this government so that it may be possible for families to travel abroad or perhaps children’s rainwear. But to avoid misunderstanding: I have to respect the Parliament's information service. I can't say a single word that I don't trust the calculations. I myself have used the calculations I have received from Parliament's information service and have appealed to them, but then I always critically also look at the comparison figures and what I wanted them to do. They come exactly according to the criteria for which I have asked for information. Parliament’s information service does not spread or tear but gives its own statements on the basis of what has been requested. Perhaps it would be good to have a debate on whether these criteria are such, but I feel a little bit about whether it is now sympathetic or something, that when we have such an arrangement as the Parliament's information service, then in this Chamber we are going to argue whether or not it is right or wrong. Then perhaps it is more worthwhile to have that debate and we here on the government side should also ask whether you have the correct figures, which is why Parliament's information service has come to an end. It would then be possible to get to the right point of view that we should not be barking at something or criticising some calculation mechanism and evaluation, but that we should be at the heart of the matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u245	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Heinos, for a good sparring. That brings us to traffic. After all, when you were in the government during the last parliamentary term, a substantial reduction in income tax was made in the early part of the period. That's what they did. Did you then ask if we could afford this? You didn't ask. In that time, the pre-eminence of tax reductions was possible during the last parliamentary term, because the government was also committed to strengthening employment, and now there is a similar situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u248	Mr President! It should be borne in mind in the employment debate that people should also get along with the work they have done. Of course, part-time low-paid work is a good basis for statistics, and labour market training and subsidised work do the same. In the past reference has also been made to the situation in Germany, where unemployment has fallen sharply, but at the same time wage differentials have increased and almost 30% work part-time. So I would not be immediately taking the example of Germany on this issue. Mr President! I would also like to point out this highly praiseworthy experiment on employment, which is now starting for the second time. I do not think it makes sense to think that you do not seem to find working practices, but that you have to experiment after another. At worst, it is a waste of money if we fail to find ways to get people productive jobs. Thus, Finns should get to the right jobs and receive the kind of pay they can make and support their families.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u249	Mr President! I have been following this debate for a long time, and, of course, sympathises with honourable fellow Members that you will continue and be able to hold this debate on employment here, but, of course, sympathies are also on the side of colleagues who are somewhere out there waiting for perhaps one speech and wonder whether it will never stop. And I am sorry that I also put my spoon in this soup myself, but I am looking forward to the administrative branch of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, which should be next, but it feels like it is running further and further away, and there is something to talk about. But, of course, I would like to remind you, when we are talking about employment, that it is there, under the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, that we have a very large reserve for the people we should be able to get into work and into this society. We have read this week in the papers: 261 drug deaths last year, 61 more than in the previous year. Not to mention alcohol, how much incapacity for work does this cause for those who are able to work? These are issues that are being resolved in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, not to mention the mentally disabled, the disabled, their potential: There are people there who are fully capable of working when they just have the right job for them. There are part-time workers who are now being employed, and this is an important job in getting those people from there into this society and working, paying taxes. I've done my own work on substance abuse rehabilitation, and many times we think that those guys are just the most hopeless, they're none of them. But when they are given the opportunity and are given the hope, they are given the better conditions for this world, it is through treatment and rehabilitation, and I can tell you from experience that it is great to have messages from these people when they have been clean for years, without intoxicants, trained in various professions: nurses, guards, local nurses, librarians, no matter why. They pay tax euros, pay off their debts, take-overs are dismantled, and this, if anything, is extremely important for our public finances. There is too little talk about these things in this Chamber. That is what I wanted to say, although this is not really part of it, but when we talk about employment, we have to turn every stone and stump, and there we have such potential, which I hope will be exploited.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u250	Mr President! Mr Vikman asked if these were all employment measures. I would like to remind you once again that I personally believe that the tripartite working groups and the tables can become, at the beginning of the year, an equally long list of these employment measures, which is not necessarily the complete list at the moment. Then, as far as this debate on this handheld part is concerned, which I think is the most important thing — what is left in the hands of a person is more important than whether taxes rise or taxes fall, everyone will probably agree — as my Minister, Mr Kulmun, said several times on Monday, so according to the Ministry of Finance's calculations, purchasing power rises by 70% of Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u251	Mr President! Mr Heinonen raised an important issue in his speech, namely the household allowance. Indeed, the government intends to reduce the household allowance. The reduction in the household deficit is clearly at odds with the government's objectives of dismantling its own black economy and of vital job creation. The household allowance helps families’ everyday lives, also being vital to thousands of elderly people, for example, as regards home cleaning. This change will result in an additional bill of more than EUR 200 per year for these elderly people. Mr Kiljunen, the surgery is directed at the very groups of people who cannot survive without help.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u252	The general debate is closed and the matter is suspended. Excuse me — Mr Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u253	I wouldn't have been sorry if the President had been up and running. — I have to ask Mr Koponen about the thousands of pensioners on low incomes: how many do you know?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u254	The general debate is now closed. — Mr Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u255	The name was mentioned. It's great that we get to talk about the next point.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u256	The general debate is closed and the matter is adjourned.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u257	Section 33 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is now presented. In this context, 1 hour and 15 minutes are reserved for the general discussion in the section.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u258	Mr President! Briefly, a presentation of this section. The total for the section is 14.9 billion, and in fact it is 138 million fewer than in the current year. And the reason for this is positive: since employment has improved, our unemployment security expenditure has fallen. The second reason relates to changes in the employer's health insurance contributions. In spite of this, there are additions to the single parent increase, to the basic part of income support, to the increases in guarantee and national pensions and to the increase in labour market support and to this type of improvement in social security benefits. It is worth remembering when you look at this total, that the vast majority of basic service funding comes from the municipalities and is included in the main category of the Ministry of Finance, where it is about EUR 7.1 billion. So this is proportional to the size of these budgets and sections. I will confine myself to the changes that the committee made during this budget debate, because otherwise time will not be enough. The first is the operating expenses of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. It is an addition made to the implementation of the Istanbul Agreement. Such a body as GREVIO, which is the Council of Europe's evaluation body on how agreements are implemented, has pointed out to Finland that we do not have the permanent coordination, evaluation and implementation body required by the agreement. Now the committee has provided funding for this in such a way that it can be built up, and this amount amounts to EUR 300000. The committee drew attention to the importance of national electronic customer information systems and the need to develop them, as information management is relevant. If we are thinking, for example, of the reform of social security, it is extremely important that our information systems are in good shape and that it can provide not only better service but also cost savings. The second point raised by the committee concerns the work of the Social Affairs and Health Authorisation and Control Agency. We all know that, for example, care for the elderly has become much more complaints than in the past. This, on the control side, has an impact on the need for more control resources. The committee considers it important that the adequacy of this resource be monitored and evaluated and, if necessary, the additional budget reacts to it in the event of a lack of control resources. Research and development was one important point in which, in fact, the committee's message to the government is that we need to clarify this funding system, because here on the research side we now have a large part of the funding coming from the municipalities, and if we move to the regional social security system, then there is a risk that funding will be reduced. And that funding has, unfortunately, been reduced for 20 years, and that is why it must not go down, but rather go up. The fact that our research works and we in health care develop new innovations and use the latest research data gives us not only better care for people but also cost savings. Within this paragraph, the committee added EUR 100000 to the study of nursing, which is mainly related to the fact that when Hotus makes recommendations for nursing and there is a requirement that they should be Swedish-based, there was no money earmarked for this. We hope that Mr Hotus will not have to take this from within, as it were, to make less of these recommendations for nursing or interrupt their activities. As a special project, the committee added money to food aid. I don't think we need to explain it in this Chamber. The sum is 1.2 million, and the wish is that this will become a permanent practice, and it would not be the case that Parliament always wonders how it will be financed under Christmas. The government had earmarked 1.5 million in the draft budget for the services of mothers who use drugs, and the committee added another 200,000 because it is also an extremely important measure. I believe that its content does not need to be opened up to this Chamber, but is understood without telling it. The dietary allowance for celiacs was abolished in 2016, and here the committee takes the view that it is important to clarify the possibilities for the reimbursement of dietary compensation. The committee is pressing for this report and has made a statement on it. Then the advance men's allowances: I will not open any more, because it has been the will of the Parliament, which means that we are going much better here. It is a question of harmonising the levels of disadvantage of spouses, but also of improving rehabilitation in other respects. In the supplementary proposal, the government added quite a lot of money to the services of these superiors, and this is because the cost to municipalities has been higher than estimated. Perhaps also very briefly from the FSHS: in it the committee put a so-called bridge funding of 1.4 million, which relates to the fact that polytechnics come inside students' health care. The clock is showing time, but perhaps briefly the fact that there has been a shortage of Swedish-speaking workers in the care sector and the committee in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area increased the resources to secure skilled language skills on that side. The committee therefore added EUR 300000 to the pharmaceutical road map,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u259	Thank you, Congressman Filatov. Then Minister Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u260	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. The budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health contributes to the objectives of social sustainability of the Government Programme. The security of income and high-quality social and health services provide well-being and trust that everyone is taken care of. We want everyone to stay with us. The draft budget will improve the livelihood of the most vulnerable. This can be seen, among other things, in the increase in basic security, pensions receiving a small pension, the single-parent distribution of child supplements, maintenance allowance and front allowance. From the beginning of 2020, the full amount of national pension will be increased by EUR 34 and the full amount of guaranteed pension by EUR 50 per month. Basic security, i.e. basic unemployment benefit allowance and labour market support, minimum rehabilitation allowance and sickness and parental allowance, will be increased by EUR 20. The child supplement for single parents and the child allowance for the fourth and subsequent children will increase by EUR 10. At the same time, the increase in the basic part of the single parent's income support will be increased by around EUR 20 so that single-parent families benefit from the increase in the child's allowance. The maintenance allowance will be increased by EUR 7. In addition, the front premium will be increased from the current EUR 50 per month to EUR 125 from 1.4.2020. These benefits are also subject to normal index increases. Contributions to social security reduce poverty. As a result of the changes in the budget as a whole, the risk of poverty is estimated to be eliminated from around 18,000 people. As the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has stated in its opinion on the budget, it is important that permanent increases in expenditure are targeted at strengthening social justice. I particularly welcome the dismantling of the unfair active model. This will also help to improve the basic security of the unemployed, as the operating cutter of the active model will no longer reduce the amount of compensation for anyone in the future. Mr President! The wider social security reform will start in the parliamentary committee at the beginning of 2020. Additional resources have been allocated to the Ministry for the preparation of the social security reform and the second major reform of the STM, the social security reform, for next year amounting to EUR 1.2 million. EUR 1.4 million will be allocated to improve the security of Kela. The Government’s goal is to have the best working life in the world, where everyone’s knowledge and skills can be used. The STM budget supports the achievement of the objectives of employment and well-being at work, for example through the part-time disability programme, the development programme for work and well-being at work and the continuation of the funding of pay support from unemployment benefit appropriations. A total of EUR 10 million will be allocated to the work capacity programme for the part-time disabled to be implemented together with the Ministry of Employment and the Economy for 2020. The share of STM is EUR 4.5 million for 2020. EUR 1 million has also been earmarked for the year 2020 to launch a programme for the development of working life and well-being at work. Mr President! I would like to thank Parliament, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and the Committee on Finance for their good handling of the budget. In addition to raising the breast dishes, I am very pleased with the increase in the budget in the parliamentary procedure to carry out studies on the road map of pharmaceuticals. The administrative sector of STM accounts for EUR 14.9 billion of the state budget proposal for 2020, which is just over a quarter of the state budget. The draft budget is EUR 138 million less than the actual budget for 2019. The fall in expenditure is mainly due to an increase in employment and a reduction in the reduction in the employer's health insurance contribution. Mr President! Krista Kiuru, Minister of Family and Basic Services, will continue to present the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u261	Mr President! This government will continue to promote the objectives of social sustainability in its own programme and in its draft budget. The intention is therefore that investment in people is also reflected in this budget. We believe that people in well-being are the foundation of a sustainable and prosperous economy, both as workers, as experts and as members of the Community. The aim of the service system is to promote and maintain the well-being, health, functional and working capacity and social security of the population and to reduce differences in well-being and health. For some of the population, these targets are already being met well, but for some, the use of services is limited or the service available does not meet the needs. So we still have a job to do. In recent years, the development of social welfare and health care has been strongly focused on administrative structures. This time, the social welfare reform will start by strengthening basic services, with various content reforms, and we will also be spending money on this work. The reform will also continue to be a structural reform, which is also important in view of the challenges facing the development of governance. An appropriation of EUR 10 million will be allocated to the development of services for children and families and the continuation of the programme for the modification of child and family services for 2020. EUR 2 million will be set aside for the preparation of the strategy for children for 2020. EUR 21.6 million will be reserved for shelters, of which EUR 2 million will be reserved to increase the number of shelters. The additional EUR 1.5 million will be allocated to the care of mothers who use intoxicants. In addition, EUR 1.6 million is proposed for children's homes for 2020. So-called satellite centres are being set up in support centres for victims of sexual crimes over 16 years of age, which extend the services and coverage of these centres. EUR 0.3 million has been earmarked for 2020. Mr President! Social and health care services will also be improved by tightening the care guarantee and clarifying the minimum size of care staff for older people. An appropriation of EUR 97 million will be allocated to the development and improvement of social and health services, which will be allocated, inter alia, to the improvement of the care guarantee and the minimum dimensions of care staff for the elderly, the development of informal care and home care, the preparation of a national mental health strategy and an age programme, the testing of personal budgets for people with mental disabilities and the development of family and medical services and bilingual services. The full resource impact after the transition period of the binding human resources allocation will be taken into account in the budgetary plan that lies ahead in the spring and in future budgets. The strong political will of the Parliament has therefore been taken into account. An increase of EUR 1 million will be made in the state's remuneration for specialist training in occupational health care. The level of appropriations will rise to EUR 2.9 million. According to the Government Programme, the central government of the municipalities of the main category of VM has taken into account the fact that this million euros will be allocated specifically to the extensive emergency services of Vaasa Central Hospital when this new task comes, but it will not be used there in Vaasa, as you know, but that the former centralisation will be cancelled so that it will be credited to all those who, on the local government side, paid for it as savings in the state of basic services. Support funding of EUR 2 million for the diversity of families and life situations has also been taken into account there in the state share of basic services. Research and innovation activities will be strengthened as the national growth strategy in the health sector continues and when the activities of the new licensing authority managing the use of social welfare and health care information are launched. Now for growth: An appropriation of EUR 7 million will be set aside to support the growth strategy in the social and health sector to support the establishment and development of national centres of expertise. Knowledge centres therefore refer to the National Cancer Centre, the Neurocentre, biobanks and the Genome Centre and the Medical Development Centre that are being prepared. The operating costs of the licensing authority for the use of social welfare and health care information, the so-called ‘Information Authorisation Authority’, which started this year, have been set at EUR 5.2 million. Funding of EUR 25 million is proposed for research at university level in health care units. [The President knocks ] I am not going to go into details here, but I would like to say, Mr President, that the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health accounts for almost EUR 15 billion in the draft budget, so important issues are on the agenda here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u262	Thank you. Thank you. — And then Minister Blomqvist.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u263	Mr President! As Minister Kiuru said here, the budget for the STM is large. On the other hand, there is no separate budget for equality — most of it. As we all know, the government programme contains a record number of gender equality entries and it also states that the government is committed to promoting gender equality, including in the budgetary process and in all key reforms, and that is what I thought I should talk about. However, in the draft budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, EUR 0.5 million has been earmarked for equality and equal pay programmes in next year's budget and these programmes are currently being planned and are expected to be completed in early next year. The development and support of gender-conscious budgeting is very important. At present, the budget preparation order provides guidance so that each ministry should include in the section statement a summary of activities relating to the draft budget with a significant gender impact. These reviews of the draft budgets of the ministries will then be monitored annually, and the monitoring will of course be used to develop the activities of the ministries, but not all measures affecting equality will be found in this monitoring, because it does not carry out a comprehensive qualitative or substantive analysis of the budget proposals. An in-depth review could better highlight the impact of the budget on men and women and on equality, thereby improving the transparency and quality of the budget and thus promoting equality. At present, all ministries have, and have for some time been, some sort of gender perspective in the draft budget's sectional justifications. However, the quality of the summary texts and the depth of the analyses vary between ministries. And now that we want to promote the integration of gender impact assessment into the budget process, it requires, among other things, the further development of evaluation methods, the development of knowledge, resources and motivation involved in the process, and the improvement of gender-specific data analysis, access and use, and that is what we want to promote. In addition, the promotion of gender equality and the development of gender mainstreaming require, among other things, increased gender competence among government staff. Training and resources are needed for the acquisition and analysis of information and, above all, of course, the commitment of management to promoting gender equality. I think it is a good state of mind, and commitment is good, but on the knowledge side we still have development. According to the Government's Action Plan, gender-conscious budgeting will be promoted as part of the Ministry of Finance's sustainable development budgeting work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u264	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say that in the run-up to both Rinte and Marin, which has just begun, a great deal has in fact already been achieved with regard to the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. On behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we have dealt with 18 reports in this Chamber, many of which have been budget laws and, in particular, the laws of Mr Pekonen's side relating to the increase in these minimum daily allowances, unemployment benefit, child allowances and pensions. That's very good. Then, perhaps, on the part of Minister Kiuru, I would say that this is exactly the way it is that we need to develop both content and structures as a result of the war, and that is what is going on here for both of us. But I also think that if we do not also have that social reform, we will not be able to get effective social security. I would like to ask in this respect: can you assess when we could get this social welfare package before Parliament and when it would also be in force?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u265	Mr President! Quality registers play an important role in ensuring the availability and quality of equal social and health services. The Government Programme mentions the importance of information management, but there is no indication in the budget of quality registers that information is intended to lead. Quality registers are important for the smooth running of care chains, transparency and cost comparison. I would like to ask Minister Kiuru: will the quality registers run out of money now — by the end of June I think there will be funding for the last one — or what are you going to do with these quality registers?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u266	Mr President! Delay of the nurse’s measurements: This fell when the government fell and came a week later to prepare this bill. You, the good government and the ministers, justified this precisely in such a way that the motion is delayed because the government fell. It is hard to believe that a week could have such a decisive effect on such a matter. One could have imagined that the proposal was already well in preparation. Here comes the feeling that there are great problems in getting it done, it inevitably wakes up. And I'm asking you, what is the problem with that nurse bill? Is it coming, and how much longer is it going to be? We can't believe what you're saying. You've allocated EUR 5 million to that nursing allowance. It seems rather inadequate. Tehy has announced today that it will require EUR 100 million more state aid for wages. So we need nurses, and I ask you, Minister: what kind of plan do you have to get nurses and hire?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u267	Mr President! When that first speech was a presentation, I now have a few personal views. In fact, I am very pleased that resources are now being made available for this coordination of the Istanbul Agreement, and I hope that the ministers will look carefully at how it makes sense to organise it in such a way that more ministries take genuine responsibility for preventing violence within the family and against women and for providing adequate assistance to victims. The second point I would like to draw attention to relates to mental disorders. In fact, we know that the OECD has estimated that the cost of this for our society is around 11 billion and mental disorders are the main reason why people are now moving to disability pension. Now that we are working on social welfare reform, we are also talking about school health care and school services. I would like to make a firm appeal to you to look carefully at how this structure is created in this new war.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u269	Mr President! The focus of social welfare and health services has been translated back into basic low-threshold services during this Government term. Although comprehensive social welfare reform is under way, this government has not forgotten the current basic services either. Approximately EUR 100 million has been earmarked for the development of basic municipal social and health care services next year. Social benefits will be increased in order to support the most vulnerable and thus promote social justice. There is a desire to improve care services for the elderly and to invest in child and family services. Mental health services will be strengthened by developing a mental health strategy. Mr President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health also considers it important that the development of informal care should be undertaken and that attention should also be paid to the situation of in-work carers, as well as the situation of children and young people as carers. This government wants to create well-being. Well-being increases productivity
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u270	Mr President! Together, we have achieved the first budget of the Marin government, and many questions challenge us here on the social and health front and require well-prepared and responsible action from the government, with its ministers and ministries and their officials: ageing, all care issues, social welfare reform, social reform. I hope that we will be able to look at a person comprehensively in all services from a baby to a grandfather — not to return so that a person is a loose head or a loose hand or a loose tooth, but a person is a whole — and finally and finally in our system to treat an entire person, not just loose parts.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u271	Mr President! With great joy I salute this fact that this matter has been dealt with by the Front Veterans and this increase has come, this EUR 125 for them, and there will also be relief for the mates of the war ombudsmen, but unfortunately, of course, these reforms will only come into force on 1 April. There would have been an even better option at the turn of the year. But why I should like to continue now: there are also the mates of the veterans of our wars in this country who receive nothing from the state. For example, food aid or other care could be given to them. I therefore hope that, next time the budget is dealt with, we will also be able to add to these issues. My own mother is still alive, and she was once an air - surveillance pilot and there in the midst of battles when the Haapamäki railway yard was bombed. He was in that tower a hundred yards away, but he survived, and he hasn't been remembered either. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u272	Mr President! There are rarely such unclear situations at this stage when the budget is being dealt with. Before the election, the government promised a nurseship in a moment and one sentence. At the moment, we do not know when that performance will come. And the real disappointment was that when you said, Minister Kiuru, there will be at least 4400 nurses and EUR 250 million, then next year's budget will be EUR 5 million. You don't get a hundred nurses on it. How is this possible? How did you make such a harsh choice of values when you were making the budget? The tightening of the treatment guarantee to get to the health centre more quickly is the initiative of the Coalition Party. It's a good thing it's on the government program. You said that 70 million if anyone gets the thousand doctors you have promised, but now it has become apparent that this money cannot be used to hire doctors. Could you tell us how this happened that there is no money for the carer's allowance in the budget? And can you tell me what kind of money those doctors are getting paid for?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u273	Mr President! Indeed, this reform of social welfare and health care is now well under way. I feel very confident about this, because this time, when the Coalition Party is not involved, it is not the business that is at the heart of the promotion of people's health and well-being, and that is where the government should continue in this right career. My concern is for these indoor-air-sick people, who in many ways in this society are deprived of the services and the right health care they need. Fortunately, the Committee on Finance now proposes funding for research into these methods of treatment for the Turku University indoor air unit, this TROSSI unit. I would like you, Mr Kiuru and Mr Pekonen, to comment on whether you see this indoor air debate in the same way as a very one-sided one, because I get a lot of feedback from those affected here that the department does not take the ministries, the THL and elsewhere seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u274	Mr President! Mr Pekonen, the celiac allowance was abolished during the last period, as you will recall, and now Parliament has taken the view in its report of the Committee on Finance that you are rushing this study required by the Government Programme and that the JTS should also provide the necessary funding for this. Now I wish this was the way it was going. I am also pleased to note that all opposition parties have also taken a positive stand on the return of the celiac compensation, so it seems that this is a common will for all of us. The second point, which was also raised to the level of the statement, is the level of VTR funding that has fallen over the last 20 years. As we know, the situation in primary health care, and in particular in health centres, is very weak, especially in the case of doctors, and now doctors would like to have the opportunity to carry out research and development work alongside their work. Now, as the statement states, I would like to see this study.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u276	Mr President! I, too, am very concerned about the condition of the nurseship, the fact that it is not yet in order — let us hope that we will soon get it. But I would like to ask you a question about how it is now thought, for example, that the computer and such communication systems work in such a way that if a person from Savo or Vaasa goes to Helsinki or Lapland to the hospital, the information will be transferred and the doctor will know what kind of treatment the patient is going through. So I would ask about the data transfer: when is there a single system in Finland? What about the allowance for informal care? Is the allowance for informal care becoming tax-free? And I would also like to ask how pharmacies are used, because there are pharmacies in every municipality, many in some municipalities. How can pharmacies be used more in social and health matters?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u277	Mr President! Services for the elderly must be guaranteed, but reforms must be made in such a way that municipalities are able to meet the obligations imposed on them. The reform work must also be carried out as a whole, and the decisions of 24-hour care must be considered as part of the overall reform of the services of the elderly. The reform of the regulation of day-to-day care must not undermine the position of people or family carers in home care. We also want to draw attention to this in the budget for next year. The Coalition Party presents a care package with 1000 nurses for home care, 1000 nurses for 24-hour care, i.e. a total of EUR 150 million in permanent care for older people, which is more than 10 times the government's increase. We also want to emphasise rehabilitation services, supervision and the obligation of elderly services. Secondly, with regard to the treatment guarantee, I would like to draw attention to the issue that is now being finalised, and we hope that, in the context of the tightening of the guarantee for care of basic services, access to basic services in the field of oral health care and mental health and substance abuse care will not be jeopardised.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u278	Mr President! I would like to raise one big issue and then two slightly smaller but very important ones, and this big one is the progress of the social welfare reform that has already been presented here. It is not only necessary to safeguard Finnish services, but also from the perspective of Finnish municipalities, and I do wish the Minister every strength and success in taking this project forward. The other two points I would like to raise are very positive: The increase in child supplements — I think it is really wise now to target the families most in need, namely the families of many children, single parents, families of one incomer, and this is very wise. Similarly, an increase in the number of guardians of student support is a truly wise policy. Finally, there is also a very important issue relating to this implementation of the Istanbul agreement, namely the increase in the funding of shelters, which was also increased by the committee. This is a very important issue, and for this I thank you, except for:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u279	Mr President! There are a lot of challenges for older people, for nursing, and so on, as has been pointed out here. But I must say that thanks must also be given for this presentation; there are many good things in it: adding shelters, adding euros to the care of intoxicant mothers, also to the development of medical care. And, of course, thanks to the food aid operators, that is very important. Food aid can be distributed, but of course operators need the euro for their activities. But then I would have liked to ask about these families with children, the poverty of families with children. Salmon there mentioned the distribution of child benefit — that would be good, but I would ask why you came to it. However, for every child, especially those first children, the increase in child benefit would be necessary, as well as the baby allowance — EUR 1000 — we have proposed, income tax deduction for children and also a higher maintenance allowance. We know the challenge of this birth rate and, in a certain way, financial security is a major factor in that. Eliki
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u280	The focus comes later.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u281	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the government on behalf of the more than 600,000 pensioners whose income will increase next year. This is a clear choice of values, and this is a change of direction for this long development. The issue of pensioner poverty is now being addressed, and this is an extremely big and important issue which I would like to say first to the government. The national pension will be increased by EUR 34 and the guarantee pension by EUR 50. The last increase in the national pension was 12 years ago, so in that sense too I would like to emphasise the importance of this and the change of direction. Much has been said here that services also have a key impact on the income of the pensioner, and it is now important that care guarantees and services in particular be invested in and provided with this staffing measure, which has only been mentioned here for years, but it is now being done. I would like to ask about these customer fees and the reform of the customer fee law: what kind of preparation is there? This is also, of course, for the pensioner.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u282	Mr President! First of all, like Mr Koskela, I would like to thank Parliament as a whole for the decision that has been taken across the political boundaries, with a front bonus of EUR 125. Of course, this decision comes too late for most veterans, but it is good that it is finally being implemented. Thank you for that. Mr President! Like the rest of the opposition, the Finns are concerned about the progress of social welfare reform or, rather, about the fact that it seems to be stagnant now. The government has come to this Parliament, mainly with a proposal for a law on social security. But if the reform were brought forward in a good parliamentary spirit, I would believe that it would be much more sustainable and bring these services closer to the citizens and would be more cost-effective in the long term. Mr President! The role of many family carers is difficult not only mentally but also economically, and informal care is important not only socially but also humanly,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u283	Let us try, ladies and gentlemen, to stay in this minute and as many people as possible will have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u284	Mr President! Thank you for the very good introductions. I would like to ask Mr Pekos: first of all, thank you for continuing to promote the employment of those who are able to work part-time. If I were to ask you a little more about it, how's it going? Then on the Sotu reform: where are we going? Thank you, Mr Kiuru, for a good introduction. I would like to ask about this reform of social welfare and health care. Now that we have read that a separate project of this kind is coming to the capital region, which I think is to be welcomed, I would like to ask whether other large urban regions could also have access to it. It was thought of last season that there would be such a variation, but it was still a little unfinished. With regard to the personnel allocation, I would like to ask which professional groups are now counted and whether only part of the work is counted in the size. For the treatment guarantee: Seven-day treatment guarantee, that's good. But is it the reception time or the start of treatment? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u285	Mr President! It is excellent and fair that the government is in its budget for the poor and in many ways strengthens care for people of all ages. There will be increases in child allowances, increases in the guardian rate of the student allowance, increases in the minimum pensions, reductions in the time limits for access to care. Preparations for the reform of the war are underway. It is one of the most important projects of the Government, which affects the ability of every Finnish citizen to receive services on an equal basis. But it also affects the sustainability of our public finances. Mr Vehviläinen has already asked about its situation, and I am also interested in it. I would also like to ask about the fact that we recorded in the government programme that we are improving access to social credit so that it is possible to obtain it throughout the country. What is the situation with regard to the preparation of this social credit? That is a very important factor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u286	Mr President! The first budget of the new decade will restore to the centre of social and health services what belongs there: human beings. The Government will improve the accessibility, effectiveness and quality of social services. More EUR 105 million will be invested in social and health care organised by municipalities than in 2019. The reform of the service structure will be carried out in stages. The reform also includes the development of informal care, the implementation of a national mental health strategy and a home care development programme. Children’s homes are established in Finland to help children who are victims of violence. Mr President! The continuation of the Lappe work launched last season will play a key role in improving the quality of child and family services. Family centres and additional resources in adult mental health and substance abuse services help families to cope with difficult times. We are pleased to welcome the allocation for increasing asylum places. However, that is not enough. The number of seats in Finland, as recommended by the Istanbul Agreement, is still a long way to go. The root causes of violence against women must be addressed and all violence must be tackled
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u287	Mr President! There has been a lot of discussion about the services of the elderly and their quality in recent years and in recent years, and in this context, about the measurement of care providers. There has been a great deal of these mistakes, especially on the private side. For example, if I take the case of theft, the municipalities there when they use service vouchers will cost 3000 euros a month, then a rental place, a 24 - square room, will cost 750 euros a month plus 15 euros a day for food. And when that service for the elderly includes a care plan, I have remained to consider how to ensure the so-called ‘old man’s consumer protection, so that he gets the right service for what needs to be provided. I think it was a good thing to have increased the resources of the supervisory authorities for 2020, but how will we proceed in the future? It's a question like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u288	Mr President! Finland is the safest and happiest country in the world, they say. Yet Finland is the second most dangerous place in the EU for women. Every third woman in her life experiences intimate violence — but I would like to stress that far too many men also experience intimate violence. According to Statistics Finland's data last year, the number of family and intimate partner violence victims reported to the authorities was nearly 10,000, which was 3.6 per cent more than in the previous year, and this is unfortunately only the peak of the iceberg. In 2018, more than 5000 people went to shelters. Too many people had to see the door when there was no room. There are too few asylums, and an additional EUR 2 million is now being allocated to increase the number of asylum seekers. The estimated number of seats required would be 500. I now appeal to the ministers to continue along this path and to continue to increase the number of asylum places in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u289	Mr President! The government has not come to the committee with much talk and the expected increase in the number of carers. This has been the biggest disappointment of the fall. Now the discussion of the bill will take place in the spring, i.e. there will be a continuation of the debate on this issue. Our new Prime Minister, Sanna Marin, said yesterday, when she presented the new government programme, that no one was left alone and that the elderly were taken care of. No, we don't. We still leave the elderly alone by keeping them in home care, even when it is no longer the best place. The needs of elderly people who still live in service homes are neglected, because the current nursing allowance does not allow them to be cared for as well as necessary. Nurses are still struggling at the limit of coping both in home care and in service homes. More and more local and nursing workers are still on disability pension due to burn-out and subsequent depression. In 2018, there were 1,300 nurses. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u290	Congressman Juuso, let's stay in this minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u291	Mr President! It is very sad and worrying that, year after year, Finland is at the top of European statistics on domestic violence and intimate violence, and this has already been mentioned with respect in several speeches. Thus, in September, the Council of Europe's expert group on violence against women and the fight against domestic violence published its first report on Finland, according to which, for example, we still do not recognise all forms of violence against women and we still stumble with the restraining order. The report also pays particular attention to the role of children, which is a very important point. It is to be welcomed and positive that the Committee on Finance is adding EUR 300000 to the work of the coordinating body, but we are all well aware that this alone is not enough, and this important issue should finally be put right in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u292	Mr President! Minister Pekonen said: the best working life in the world. Minister Kiuru said: towards social justice. The Coalition Party and the Christian Democrats say in their own report, protest or motion of censure to the government: this government programme and its budget do not encourage Finns to work hard and to develop themselves. The Finns of Finland say in their own opinion: this government programme and budget do not meet the needs of our citizens who need social and health services and do not improve the daily lives of most citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u294	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u295	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u296	Mr President! Thank you to the ministers for the reforms in the field of social welfare, and I think that there are also very important reforms there for a particular Finnish who really needs help. Some of them are already listed in this debate. In the case of wars, we often talk about services, but I would also like to raise this debate to the reform of the culture of action, because it is also about how we can bring people more easily into one service to another and help even when there is no specific need for a particular service. I would like to ask the ministers: how have service guidance and service chains been taken into account now in this social welfare reform, and let us take them to the very heart of the social welfare reform? It is a matter of finding the right service and not hanging or being in the wrong kind of help. I would like to thank you for drawing up an age programme aimed at promoting the well-being and health of older people and I very much hope that the work of the High Commissioner for the Elderly will be carried out as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u297	Mr President! On page 147 of the Government Programme, it is stated that informal care is being developed. There is nothing else in the Government Programme regarding informal care. I simply ask: how and when do we see the development of informal care here in the decision-making process? Then, on page 152 of the Government Programme on social welfare reform, it says that there are 18 autonomous provinces. What is the situation now that the New Land is being divided? Is this 18 still true? Now for the preparation of the social welfare reform. The municipalities are now out of preparation, and Parliament is not preparing it. When are you going to involve parties and municipalities, for example, in the preparation of this important issue?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u298	Mr President! The medical shortage is real. This morning I received a message from an acquaintance saying that he, a 72-year-old man, has already been transferred for the third time from serious heart surgery, and that is because doctors are not available in HUS either. You have set aside EUR 60 million to tighten up the treatment guarantee for next year's budget, but it is mainly on the primary health side. In what way do you intend to improve the services of special medical care, and what do you want me to answer this 72-year-old acquaintance of mine who is waiting for that rapid heart surgery?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u299	Mr President! Mr Viljanen and Mr Pelkonen have made very important contributions here. One of the worst forms of discrimination, intimate partner violence, is rampant in Finland. In Finland, even one in three women experience intimate partner violence in their lives. So each one of us is sure to have these women who have experienced it. Mr President! I would therefore particularly like to thank the government for its commitment to implementing the Istanbul agreement next year. Resources are needed to prevent violence against women, and in particular violence against close partners, and to help victims of violence. In addition to improving services, we need real changes in attitudes. Above all, we must recognise that violence is one of the forms of extreme discrimination and that discrimination is also exposed to violence. We must get rid of discrimination once and for all. Only true respect for the dignity of another person will prevent violence from beginning.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u300	Mr President! This section of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health also includes the resources of the regional government's occupational safety and health responsibilities, where this year's level of appropriations is EUR 24.8 million, EUR 26.2 million for next year, which means that there is a slight increase, which is good. 1.5 million of this increase has been devoted to health and safety at work and the fight against the shadow economy. 1.5 million is a very small sum compared to the fact that, by the government and this budget too, we are actually increasing imports of foreign labour. After all, there are many problems: underpaid jobs and other poor working conditions, which should then be monitored by the authorities, so that collective agreements and legislation are fulfilled by the employer. This would require much more resources than what is being proposed and, of course, other measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u301	Mr President! On page 728 of the budget book, EUR 60 million will be allocated to improve access to primary health care. This is a turning point in the situation of primary health care, which has steadily deteriorated. When Lipponen’s second government closed its operations in 2003, there were 10 million health centre medical visits in Finland, currently 6 million. The market forces have gained power in our health care and would have gained even greater power as the last parliamentary reform of the social welfare system takes place. In the long term, however, there is a very worrying situation in health centres and, as Mr Kauma has said, also in special care. Neurosurgeons do occupational health care because it is better paid, heart surgeons remove grains of sand from the knees of fallen little children. We are currently in a situation where health care is lost and we are on the edge of a knife. Now we're about to make a turn.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u302	Mr President! Immigration from developing countries in particular costs our society billions a year. Most of these costs are not covered by the Ministry of the Interior's administrative sector, not by integration and reception costs, but by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, since most of them arise from the use of social security.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u303	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! When you listen to the criticisms of opposition parties about the government programme and budgets, there seems to be nothing good about it. But is it not important that the government wants to invest in preventive measures that undoubtedly have positive effects on both the economy and the well-being of citizens? Providing a care guarantee, raising small pensions, a single parent increase in child supplements and a guardian increase in student support, and increasing basic security. Are these not acceptable reforms? My question to the ministers is this: these measures also have financial implications.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u304	Mr President! Genuine equality in life – such as schools, workplaces, wages, different choices – is still not true in Finland in 2019. For its part, the Government is committed to promoting gender equality, including in the budgetary process and in all its key reforms. We also have recommendations to make progress: launch the concept of gender-conscious budgeting, link gender-based budgeting with national and sectoral equality objectives, extend the gender impact assessment of legislative proposals to the entire broad budgetary process, systematically report on gender and gender impact of the budget and support gender-based budgeting politically and within the state administration. Mr Blomqvist, how do you feel about the challenging objectives listed above? As a government, what are the conditions for success? Is there a genuine state of will and responsibility and a visible role to play across administrative boundaries in the above-mentioned issues?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u305	Mr President! Challenges have been identified in home care and elderly services should be developed as a whole. More helpful hands are needed, but also new technologies, new types of services, strengthening a preventive and rehabilitative approach to work. I would like to ask the ministers: how are the third sector and organisations to be involved in home care and how are the labour shortages in the social services sector to be resolved, such as the training of nurses to prescribe medicines?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u306	Mr President! This draft budget for the STM does contain good increases, especially for low incomes, thanks to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u307	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u308	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u309	Mr President! So the cornerstones of this budget are equality and equality, as well as tax-funded welfare and education services. In this area, too, the challenges are the falling birth rate and ageing, the segregation of services and the transformation of society and families. With this budget, however, we can take advantage of the promotion of well-being and the reduction of inequalities. Among other things, the mental health strategy under preparation, the strategy for families with children, which takes a stand on equality in daily living, which is becoming increasingly widespread, and the restructuring of social and health care is one of the reforms that will contribute to these objectives. However, I would like to ask: how does the government now intend to promote the development of health centre and pharmaceutical fees and roof charges for Kela rides? These are a major problem for a large proportion of low incomes when everyone resets at the turn of the year and incomes are low. In the name of equality and equality, this is a big deal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u310	Mr President! I would like to say here that, in the haste of this matter of carer size, the working situation of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has been so much so that we decided last Friday there, and even if we had received a proposal from the government on carer size this week, in the name of realism we would have started to deal with it only at the beginning of February. [KimmoKiljuen intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u311	I can see that honourable representatives still have a willingness to be debated, but the time allotted for this debate is now running out. I'm sorry everyone didn't make it, but most of them did. Let us now give the ministers the opportunity to bring these together, three minutes each, at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u312	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you all for the very good questions. There were so many of them, and I thought that if I spoke very quickly, I might be able to answer them all. If not, I will continue the discussion with all of you later, however. Mrs Filatov and Mrs Kiljunen raised this question at the outset of the debate and the report on the return of the allowance for coeliac disease, on which this statement was also submitted. I would like to say that this study has already been launched in the Ministry, and then we will certainly get to the point where we can look at the possibility of refunding the coeliac compensation and the financial resources needed to do so. Mr Filatov then raised the issue of mental health problems, which are the main cause of disability pensions. This is true, and that is precisely why, in cooperation with the Ministry of Employment and Social Affairs, this part-time disability programme, which has been allocated EUR 10 million for next year, is now being implemented. Then we will also be able to launch this programme for the development of working life and well-being at work, which is extremely important, because I think it is very important that no person who is already working does not fall out of that working life. Mr Koskela was the first to raise these breast dishes, to which Mr Savio referred here. I would like to say straight away that I do not take credit for this increase in allowances to myself, but I would like to thank Parliament across party boundaries for this decision to raise these parlours. I would like to point out that, of course, it would have been wonderful if we had received these benefits from the beginning of the year, but this proposal was made after mid-November and was then discussed here in Parliament. Unfortunately, Kela’s systems do not keep up with this pace, and that is why this increase comes into effect on 1 January. The President Congressman Tanus asked about the increases in child supplements and their targeting. It should be noted that the risk of poverty in families with multiple children is higher, and that is why the government has placed this emphasis on these increases. Addressing the poverty of families with children is of the utmost importance, and the government will therefore also consider further ways to reduce the poverty of families with children. Mr Risikko asked many good questions. I note that the employment programme for the part-time workers has been prepared in good cooperation with the Ministry of Employment. It will soon be ready, and then we will really get to work and implement it, and the aim is to rehabilitate people back into the labour market. Of course, however, we also have to recognise that there are people who do not get well back into work, and then we have to think about human solutions for them. The reform of social security was also raised in Mr Risiko's and Mr Vehviläinen's speeches. I am truly sorry that we did not get to start this work on the Social Reform Committee this year. It shall not affect [The President knocks ] was my goal, and that is what I would have liked to have done, but unfortunately I have not been able to do so. But it's committee work. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u313	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u314	Mr President! Now begins the task impossible because there were so many questions here, but I am now trying to gather here, and some can then be spoken to separately. Kemp, Kyllönen, Kauman and Rehn-Kive have quite a lot to do with each other. First of all, Rehn-Kivi asked about the importance of prevention and precisely such well-being investments in people: would it not be worthwhile to invest now because the savings are actually much bigger in the future? That's where this big picture starts. So when Kempp spoke for the functioning of the care chains and Merja Kyllönen for comprehensive care, that is what we are trying to do. A person should not only get to a doctor once, but also be treated. If this expenditure continues, this society will not be able to afford this. When the trouble comes, it must also be dealt with, and this is the big basic philosophy that we must now understand. Another point of view was the question raised by Mr Kauma, which is why special care is not now taking these problems seriously. Your concern is justifiable, it is quite true that there is room for improvement in the services, too, but when we look at this big picture, the time for basic health care and basic social services has not yet been at all. We have to get this basic level in order because it is constantly leaking into special care, which is why we have too many people in special care who should be here in basic care. And getting this picture in order is a key part of what we are trying to do differently, as Mr Lindén has already said. This is a big translation now, if this works. The next package relates to how this will then be taken into account in terms of content and structure. There was much room for improvement in the content comments, and it all comes from the fact that this treatment guarantee should be made to work faster, that a person could get to a doctor more quickly. Can you afford even what was presented here? For example, Risikko asked whether it was necessary to wait a few days to evaluate the treatment at all or not immediately to seven days.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u315	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u316	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u317	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u318	Mr President! A couple of things. Here's your representative. Taimela gave a very comprehensive list of all the good things contained in the Government Programme on the equality side. It is true that most of these are precisely these cross-administrative measures, and that of course requires a strong will of the government, it exists. Even during the Rinte government, equality issues were discussed in the evening school, and I'm sure Marin's government will do the same. In addition, a working group of secretaries of states has been set up, which I am the head of and which is trying to coordinate both the gender equality programme and other gender equality measures. This is, of course, a rather challenging task, but I am convinced that good coordination and good will will will also be able to implement all these measures. That is at least the role of the Minister for Gender Equality, which I have understood, and I will do my best to make this work. Then, Mr President, to this Istanbul agreement and to this violence in the family, which has already been mentioned in this many speeches. Among other things, the representatives of Mr Filatov, Mr Pelkonen, Mr Tanus, Mr Viljanen and Mr Forsgrén raised this issue, and this is a very important issue. Violence against women and intimate violence are key issues of equality and also of attitude. During this term of government, a programme to combat violence against women will be drawn up, an independent rapporteur will be set up and the funding of shelters will be increased. From 2015 until now, the number of shelters has grown from 19 to 28 shelters and these family places have been increased from 114 to 202. We now have a total of EUR 21.6 million, an increase of EUR 2 million in the previous year for these asylum places, and this appropriation will also be increased in the following years. Then we change the definition of criminal law from rape to lack of consent, and this is an important issue. And then I would perhaps like to finish with what Mr Forsgrén has pointed out, that this is an attitude issue, and we all have a big task to do, for each of us, and, of course, as Minister for Gender Equality, this is one of the most important tasks for me. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u319	Thank you. — Unfortunately, the time has now been spent on this section. A few Members who might have had the opportunity to have the floor have not been able to do so, for which I am sorry. The debate and the debate are now suspended. It will continue later in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u320	The general debate on Section 33, which was suspended earlier in this sitting, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u321	Mr President! There are problems with access to basic health care services all over Finland. People don't get treatment, and they're in an unequal position. There are shortcomings in the care of the elderly. There's no access to mental health services. Municipalities alone will not be able to cope with their obligations. At the same time, the population is ageing and the need for services is increasing. According to the National Institute for Health and Welfare, the cost of social services will increase significantly in the coming years. Stronger responsibilities are needed to organise services, so social services must be formed on the basis of cooperation between cities and municipalities. The mental health problems of children and young people have increased and treatment is not available, and in Finland the rights of children of the UN are not realised in mental health services. We must now look at the improvement of services. We no longer need massive administrative changes; we need that money to develop people's services and improve access to people's services. In this amending budget, which the government gave, it was great that more funding was made available for shelter. Thank you also to the government for the fact that the FSHS received additional money in accordance with the addition proposed by the Coalition Party and also the pharmaceuticals road map received funding. The treatment guarantee needs to be tightened. We must have stricter criteria in the law for people to be treated, and access to care and care must not be limited to wallets. The government's proposal for a blackmailed treatment guarantee is to be welcomed as such. Now we must find ways to do so and also ensure that treatment is provided. It is not enough to get in touch with a health centre or get to a person, but to actually get that treatment. At the same time as the treatment guarantee is tightened, care must be taken to ensure that the waiting lists for oral healthcare are not increased. The Coalition Party proposes to tighten up the treatment guarantee by 60 million, and the money that is available for the development of social welfare centres is significantly more than the government has proposed. As I said earlier, mental health services for young people and children, as well as adult mental health services, are unsustainable and more resources are needed to improve them, and the assembly proposes introducing a therapeutic guarantee. It is precisely the strengthening of basic services, access to mental health services on a low threshold, for example in school and student health care, where children and young people are. The government will present 5 million for services for the elderly next year. The Coalition Party proposes ten times as much, or even more, EUR 150 million. The Coalition Party proposes that 1000 nurses be provided with home care, home care support services, and 1,000 nurses for 24-hour care. We must not leave any care-needing treatments, without care. We must ensure that everyone receives it on an equal footing, regardless of where they receive the care, whether they are at home or in 24-hour care. We must also remember the family carers and their support and also the fact that they can take their day off — the service voucher is a convenient tool for doing so, so you can choose a suitable place for the family. The Coalition Party also puts 10 million permanent investments in improving the services of families with children and also in the quality register. The government does not spend any money on the quality register, although the information should lead — I wonder with what information. We are also adding 13 million. And then, briefly: hepatitis C is the most common type of viral hepatitis and its elimination, removal, population has already been recommended by THL — i.e. under STM
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u322	Mr President! The draft budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is quite a huge sum, EUR 14.9 billion. It is therefore just over a quarter of the total budget of the state. There is talk of a significant pot, and for lack of time we need to concentrate only on certain things. There's a lot of good in this administration budget. Although this amount is large, it is still EUR 138 million lower than in this year's budget. Well, for what reason? Of course, the background lies in the growth of employment and the end of the competitiveness pact. As a result, unemployment security expenditure and health insurance expenditure fall, among other things. Many benefits will be improved next year, as we know. Some could be mentioned as the most significant changes. The increase in small pensions is a significant contribution towards more than 600,000 pensioners from the beginning of the year. The full amount of the guarantee pension is increased by EUR 50 per month and the full amount of the national pension is increased by EUR 34 per month. The national pension was last increased in 2008. These contributions appear on people’s accounts after the turn of the year and bring relief to the early years of many, when far too many have to compromise their living expenses. As we know, the early year for the sick and elderly is quite an abomination today, when, among other things, pharmacy visits seem agonizing as a result of their own contributions to medicines. Many then have to weigh whether to buy drugs or to buy food. We all know who gets ahead of us at that point. There will also be the expected increases in basic security. The minimum rehabilitation allowance, sickness and parental allowance, the basic unemployment allowance and labour market support will be increased by EUR 20. And a familiar story: the removal of the active model of unemployment benefit and the increase in the minimum age of the additional days of unemployment allowance. The 2020 budget has allocated an increase of EUR 104 million to support veterans, more than this year. This money is mainly used for services delivered to the home of front veterans. In addition, the front premium will be increased from the current EUR 50 to EUR 125 per month from 1.4.2020. This is absolutely important and the decision that united this whole Parliament, which we all certainly stand for. Mr President! Here are some benefits I wanted to raise. It must also be remembered that the entire government programme is a pro-child government programme. The continuity of Lapland's development work will be maintained, and 10 million will be earmarked for this important development of child and family services next year. Here today, I spoke earlier about shelters. We have a situation in Finland where one in three women encounter intimate partner violence and the number of asylums is still inadequate. Last year, there were over 5,000 people in our shelters, and it is growing enormously all the time. There is an urgent need for more asylum places, and I am therefore grateful to the government for the EUR 2 million earmarked for the increase in asylum places. In total, the amount allocated to shelters is 21.6 million. In addition to shelters, it is also important to invest in substance abuse services because substance abuse is also a key reason for the need for shelter services. In the budget for the coming year, an additional EUR 1.5 million has been earmarked for the services of women using drugs. This is a good start, and the EUR 200,000 increase proposed by the Committee on Finance added a positive addition. As I said, for a limited period of time it is impossible to go through all the good that next year's budget for this large administrative sector will bring. The most important, however, are improvements in people's livelihoods and investments in the future's ability to provide better social and health services for our citizens, for everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u323	Mr President! There are 23 statements in the protest of the Finns on the section of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. They highlight the burning problems in our system, of which hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions, are suffering in this country. They are divided in a wide variety of ways and for many different purposes, as natural is, because people have a wide variety of problems and problems. However, we must try to help everyone equally, regardless of their grief. Mr President! In our alternative budget, there was an allocation of EUR 2 million for diet allowances for diabetics, EUR 11 million for the reduction of the share of medicinal products, EUR 2 million for celiacs — now I think I have some of those diabetics and celiacs in this mess, but everyone will understand, that is to say, EUR 2 million for celiac food payments. In addition, we proposed EUR 10 million to improve the situation for farm surveyors, but we could not leave these proposals when the legislative interpretation is now rigorous here. That is why I would like to make it clear here that they are in our alternative budget. Unfortunately, we are not going to get them in the vote. However, these statements draw attention to the fact that the government is taking them up. These amounts are relatively small, but the targets are burningly important. For example, agricultural leave and the survival of the farming population in general today is a very serious problem and solutions must be found. The situation will only get worse when the EU cuts agricultural subsidies and thus makes it difficult for people and families to live and live in. Mr President! We have great concern about this, that we still have a big problem with the poverty of families with children. There's got to be some improvement. During the day, I asked the ministers for a reply without getting the idea of how to develop informal care when said in the Government Programme. How and when? I was waiting for an answer, but I didn't hear it. Then I will say that the government programme also includes this reform of social security. It is now not being prepared parliamentaryly, and the municipalities are not sufficiently involved. This is what I hope will change.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u324	Mr President! Today, the Finns of Peru have reiterated its wish, but also the demand that social welfare should be dealt with together in a parliamentary manner. After all, we all look forward to social reform, it's been done for years, it's like Isaac's church, it's going to take a while to build it, and it feels like we can't get to the finish line, but if we could build it together, it could be possible. And when this new Parliament was elected, then Prime Minister Rinne also announced that it would be done parliamentaryly, as did the SDP itself when it was in the opposition. I would see this as absolutely important, and I hope that our message will be received so that there will not be a show like that last season in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Today we were talking about this delay in carerisation, and the Minister estimated during the week that perhaps it could still have been achieved in this December, but now that Parliament is still sitting, it would not have been possible until next year. But we were dealing, among other things, with social welfare reform and social welfare laws when the rest of Parliament had already left for summer holidays, and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health sat in July. In other words, we could have come from a holiday, from a sitting time to sit in Parliament and to deal with the nurseship if it had only been brought here before the turn of the year, because we are committed to it. At least as a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I am more than prepared to deal with it. So we're still waiting, and that's a shame. It would have been nice and necessary to hear what's actually going on there, which is so hard to bring to the finish line in that bill. I bet it's the funding. The Government's EUR 5 million for the implementation of the nursing allowance is insufficient. In our own alternative budget, we have put forward additional resources for training and also for hiring carers. Mr President! This section of the administrative branch of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health totals EUR 14.9 billion and has a lot to do with it. I would like to thank you for the good things that have now been allocated by the amending budget — there are indeed shelters there, there are controls, research and development, pensions, support for veterans, services for the home of front veterans. What concerns me is this matter of supervision. After all, because of the crisis in care for the elderly, the first amending budget for 2019 provided resources for control over Valvira and the aves, and now we have heard that this year a record number of complaints have come to the aves, which is, in a way, unfortunate afterwards. After all, we cannot carry out post-monitoring, that is to say, there should be measures to prevent mistreatment and mistreatment in the care of the elderly, perhaps those very deficiencies in care providers. Mr President! True Finns have been concerned for a very long and long time about the quality of hospice care in Finland, and we have taken a legislative initiative to produce a law on hospice care in Finland. I would like us to be able to regulate this matter by law, so that it is equal across Finland. With regard to informal care, we have suggested that the allowance for informal care should be exempt from tax. Then there would be a substantial allowance for family care. Then I have wondered how we could facilitate this abuse and crisis of care for the elderly. Should we substantially increase the number of facilities? We have a lot of elderly people who don't belong there in home care. They do not want to be there themselves, and the relatives feel that they are too ill. But what if we had care places, nursing homes, group homes, nursing homes, good care places where a person could spend his old age and not there in his own home? If we were to turn the clock back and cancel the reductions in the facilities and, on the contrary, build more of them, I could imagine that loneliness would be reduced and people would be better off. There would be a daily meal, warmth, and care available, because many elderly people are unable to live alone in their own home. The same is true of family care: when a person goes to that short-term care place, it must not be a mere detention but must have sufficient resources. Also, I wish there were a thousand more doctors and there would be a doctor. Now the treatment guarantee is drying up in such a way that it is a multiprofessional team that accepts. Unfortunately, this government money is not enough; we all know that. The True Finns have always believed that when an elderly person seeks a doctor, he should be received as if he were going to an emergency clinic. You should not put an elderly person in a position to wait for treatment; you should get to a doctor immediately. It is the state of will and the goal to be pursued in Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u325	Mr President! The Government Programme contributes to building a child-friendly Finland. On the initiative of the Centre, this autumn we had the necessary topical and urgent debate on the subject. Support for children and families is our common concern. We're raising benefits from the smallest head. Minimum maternity, paternity and parental allowances and sickness allowance will increase. This costs almost EUR 40 million a year. Child allowances for single parents and families with multiple children will increase by 10 per month from the beginning of next year and maintenance allowance will be increased by 7 euros per month. This costs EUR 36.5 million per year. Services for children and families will be developed and the programme for changing child and family services will be continued and EUR 10 million reserved for it. It is good that a strategy for children is being drawn up, and 5 million have been set aside to do so. Many children suffer from their mother’s substance abuse problem — funds are also allocated to the care of substance abuse mothers. Not everyone’s life is safe — more money is being spent on shelters. Studying families also receive an additional increase in the dependency rate of the student allowance. It is important that we also encourage the establishment of a family at the study stage. We raise the lowest parental and sickness allowances and continue to work to reduce the poverty of families with children. The Centre has proposed and proposed that in the future, the calculated saving for child allowances resulting from the reduction of the birth rate should be kept inside the child supplementation and targeted at the increase in child supplements. It is important to create a climate of hope, positiveness in Finland in which young people dare to commit, start a family and have children. That is something we can all contribute to. I am delighted that the reform of family leave will soon be completed. Families are still allowed to decide how to care for their children. The support for home care will remain unchanged, the father’s chances of participating in the care of children will be improved, and the mother’s chances will remain unchanged or even slightly increased if the father gives up his voluntary weeks or gives them to the mother. Overall, flexibility will increase significantly. Reconciliation of work and leisure time will be facilitated. A reform that has not been completed in the past will be implemented. I am particularly pleased about this – it is a great Christmas present for child-friendly Finland. I want to thank the government for having it for a small person from cradle to grave. We just heard a speech from Mr Juvos about the development of hospice care. It's really important. EUR 2 million is set aside for this, and I hope that there will be more later. Hospice treatment should be developed, it is truly an important last service of love for those leaving.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u326	Mr President! Young people’s mental health problems are one of the worst questions of our time. Therefore, with joy and warmth, I salute the Therapy Guarantee Citizens' Initiative. In total, an additional EUR 35 million would enable effective basic mental health care services to be established in an appropriate condition without an impossible long queue. In mental health matters, timely access to services is extremely important. Painful long queues and prolonged access to help can at worst end up even in irreversible solutions. We cannot afford to lose anyone on our nation's boat, which is why the Coalition Party is behind this citizens' initiative. I sincerely hope that the government too will yield to this. This would be particularly important for my hometown of Oulu, where young people with mental health problems know everyone around them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u327	Mr President! Mental health disorders are the most common cause of permanent disability. The costs to Finnish society are considerable, according to the OECD estimate, up to EUR 11 billion per year. The development needs of mental health services in all age groups are related to the fragmentation of the service system, the lack of basic care and the inadequacy of local services. Mental health services, especially for children and young people, are structurally and functionally fragmented. Access to services is also hampered by the fact that only health centres have a statutory obligation to treat mental health disorders, whereas other actors, such as maternity clinics and school health care, are solely responsible for supporting and promoting mental health. For example, there is a lack of statistics on mental health work in schools, which makes it difficult to develop and monitor treatment packages for children and young people with mental disorders. Mr President! I think it is very important that the budget should provide the budget for the preparation of a national mental health strategy. In the context of the development of a mental health strategy, it is essential to strengthen basic services in order to genuinely respond to the needs of children, young people and adults with regard to mental health and also with regard to substance abuse problems and to ensure timely access to assistance. In addition to basic services, it is also important to improve preventative and low-threshold services, as well as the role of school health care in the care of children and young people with mild mental health symptoms and disorders, and to take into account the situation of the family as a whole, in order to ensure adequate assistance and support at the earliest possible stage. Mr President! Unfortunately, the lack of access to basic mental health services for children and young people and the fragmentation of these services are currently weighing both on special care and child protection. In the development of mental health and substance abuse services, it is therefore very important to take into account in particular the strengthening of mental health services for children and young people and the clarification of the responsibility for care and coordination. Mental health and substance abuse services for adults must also take better account of the need for support for the whole family. I would therefore like to thank the government for providing the budget for the development of child and family services in order to lower the threshold for access to mental health services for children and young people, to improve timeliness and access as part of family services. Then, Mr President: There's a little time left. Unfortunately, I did not come to Mr Juvonen's opening remarks when I was forced to go to dinner at times, but when I asked whether the things that were mentioned in the previous section were raised, this was a matter relating to the nurse's qualification. I personally believe that getting a nurse’s appointment to the law is the most important thing. I personally do not see it as the main issue at the moment whether it will be delivered to Parliament before Christmas or after Christmas. The important thing is it's coming. It'll be here as soon as possible. Now it has really been a bit of a challenge that when the government fell, there was a two - or three - week gap, no progress was made. I know that a great deal of work is now being done to achieve this, so that Parliament can have it as soon as possible. [ Arja Juvonen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u328	Mr President! I, in my speech, will draw my attention to a single question in the section of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and that is the question of pensions. This Government Programme and the budget also have the central dimension of the elderly, that 25 years old people have been the group of income recipients in Finland who have been deprived of benefits more than any population group in the history of Finland. This quarter of a century has been a very difficult period, and for the first time since the early 1990s we have a government programme with a comprehensive programme to improve and improve the living conditions of older people. I'm just not wearing a hat here. One element is increases to the smallest pensions. We have already repeated here several times that the guarantee pension will be increased by EUR 50 per month and the national pension by EUR 34. This is also the starting point for the objective of raising pensions below EUR 1400 during this parliamentary term by EUR 100, and this is, of course, what we are aiming for. There is another component in the Government Programme that is being launched: When we know that national pension and guarantee pension are not actual old-age pensions in Finland but are basic security, and we know that the average person receiving a full national pension is a 50-year-old male — that is to say, mainly disability pensions — and we also know that the actual old-age pension is an occupational pension, 98% of people over the age of 65 receive an occupational pension, then this government programme also assumes that, through tripartite negotiations, an attempt will be made to negotiate the EUR 100 increase for these pensions linked to the EUR 1000 to EUR 1400, and that price tag will amount to about EUR 700 million. In fact, I think that this EUR 100 increase could be put on all pensioners, then it would be of a solidarity nature, and its price tag would be, for example, EUR 1.5 billion. Now you can ask me if there's any money. I can tell you that the pension funds from which that money would be taken will grow by an average of EUR 8 billion per year, which is what this scale is all about. A little bit of the increase in the earnings-related pension system would then be reduced, not by the system itself, but by its capital. But in any case, the starting point here is that we are now trying to negotiate that this so-called 'poverty' pension scheme should receive the aid, which is the only right starting point, because that money has been collected specifically for pensions. And even at the time when the index was adopted at the time, 95, the starting point was the retirement of the baby boomers. Mr President! This is the first step in getting us to this real big thing that is essential to the whole of pension provision, that is, this index increase and the folded index. In that respect, we have made here, a dozen Members of Parliament, a bill for replacing a folded index with a mid-term index. In other words, the mid-term index would be restored so that two thirds of the index increase reserve would be a euro increase and one third would then be a percentage increase. This bill is being discussed in committee and I hope it will receive appropriate support. I am also aware that Mr Elomaa and the Finns of Peru have made a parallel bill in this respect, and that is what will be voted on in this budget proposal. The problem with its parallel bill is that it repeats the structure of the folded index. This original index has been created from it — not so much this ratio of 20 to 80 — that it was folded to 65 years of age, so that people under the age of 65, i.e. invalidity pensioners, receive this mid-term index and then up this 20 to 80 ratio. Now the idea for Finns is that pensions under EUR 1400 would have this mid-term index and not otherwise. It is problematic in that it does not apply to all pensioners covered by the earnings-related pension scheme, since it is a earnings-related scheme. And this bill by ten Members of Parliament is far more meaningful in this respect than this initiative by the Finns of Finland, and I personally would see the Committee on Social Affairs and Health raising this issue. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u329	Mr President! In Finland, there are a large number of nurses who care for the elderly with all their heart. However, these people are not machines, and no one is able to work, which is not to be done as well as they can, and the load of which is far too great. According to a September 2018 survey, 68 per cent of carers estimated that their working life was poor. An extensive survey carried out in the same year also revealed that 52% of respondents felt that wages did not match their skills. It is quite clear that the problems of care for the elderly will not be solved without an increase in the number of staff. I hope this will happen quickly, as Mr Juvonen has just pointed out.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u330	Mr President! Mr Juvonen has already raised the main concerns of our Finns, but I will focus on one thing: the greatest concern of our time, mental health, such as Mr Berg — and was there anyone else here, Heikkinen — who also spoke about it. The physical health of Finns has improved in recent years. Invalidity pensions have decreased. At the same time, however, half of disability pensions are mental health-related. One in five Finns experiences mental disorders during the year, and one in five suffers from depression during their lives. Every other Finn will experience a mental disorder at some point in his life. Mr President! Currently, funding is provided in the government budget for the preparation of a national mental health strategy. A mental health strategy is a good thing, but the therapeutic guarantee is linked to basic services and needs to be implemented separately. It therefore requires its own financial contribution. It is worrying that every fourth child lives in a family where the parent has or has had a mental health or substance abuse problem. Mental health disorders account for 70% of the burden of disease on children and adolescents. The threshold for seeking help has fallen, but multiple problems have increased. Children’s childhood experiences also affect the rest of their lives, and 50 percent of mental disorders start before 14. Age-years. I myself have studied men’s divorces, and from that material it became very clear that in a crisis situation my subjects did not want or find help at this stage of life, perhaps at the greatest turning point that life brings. According to a Danish survey, the most marginalised group of the population is divorced men in their early 40 ’ s. The word 'outside' is the labour market word, it comes to us in Finnish from Swedish, i.e. the word 'utslagen', which means the outcast, thrown out. These people in the crisis are increasingly in need of mental health services. The idea that a man shouldn't be caught up in feelings can mean avoiding difficult things. It could lead to a man not getting help. It is too shameful to show weakness in this way. Depression symptoms can be completely untreated, which at worst can even lead to suicide. The suicides of men who have been through the divorce crisis are twice as high as those who live in normal life situations. In general, suicides by men have tripled compared to women. Men are overrepresented in suicide statistics. The threshold for aid for them should be lowered. It's good that mental consciousness has grown. In the case of children, early intervention and work at home are of great importance. This will enable early identification of signs and control of the situation. More low-threshold services are needed in our country, such as service centres, youth centres and multi-functional emergency services. In the case of the elderly, multi-functional day centres reduce insecurity and also loneliness. Our country could form a hybrid model of experts from different sectors, for example. The main focus must be on preventive mental health work and must be a central objective. Unfortunately, the preventive work is not yet working in the desired way, and the experts from the various parties have not found each other sufficiently, in a coordinated way. A step-by-step mental health service system based on low-threshold services is more cost-effective than a system based on special care. It has been calculated that bringing one excluded person back to work will bring savings of 2 million. It would be sufficient to cover the costs if a hundred young people could be reinstated from 15,000 young people through workshops and outreach youth activities. So early intervention is everything a and o. That is why the health guarantee for patients with mental health is a good and worthwhile proposal. It'll pay for itself. Mr President! According to statistics, a serious crisis situation can come up against almost everyone at some point in life. It could be burnout, death of a loved one, divorce, bankruptcy, whatever. When the mind is shaken, then there is no time to wait weeks or months; help should preferably be provided immediately. It has been estimated that early intervention and the initiation of psychotherapy would move 7,500 people from benefits to work. This would result in savings of some 340 million annually. The euro invested in the therapy guarantee would bring it back tenfold to society. At the same time, the necessary workforce would be created. The goal of the new Finnish Government is the unemployment rate of 4.8, currently more than 6. By investing in the promotion of mental health, new working hands will be created, and not just that: the multiplier effect will be many times greater, primarily with the improvement of the quality of life of people. The government's proposal of 97 million for social and health services development projects and 10 million for the well-being of families with children are all in the right direction, but now even this 10 million is far too small.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u331	Mr President! Mental health problems are indeed one of the most significant health problems that affect far too many Finns. When talking about them, I would also draw attention to the fact that the reasons behind depression are often not explained. There may be many reasons for depression, but it is far too typical to assume that depression and fatigue are part of a life situation such as a baby’s or hectic job and study, and the real cause of depression is not always solved. Also, fatigue alone can often be put on the back of depression even if one does not even feel depressed. If your municipality manages to reach your doctor without any problems, you usually get medication and a warm hand, no therapy or reasons for doing so. In fact, depression may be an additional symptom of any other disease, such as neuropsychiatric disorders or iron and various vitamin deficiency, so much more effort should be made to determine the background. The diagnosis of depression and medication alone are not always enough. Mr President! I would therefore like to see rapid action and solutions from the government to find out the causes and diseases behind depression and fatigue and to improve the quality of mental health work as people receive the care they need.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u332	Mr President! In my speech, I will take just one point, and that is the state of affairs for people with memory problems. If we want to control the cost of care for elderly people while at the same time taking care of humanity, the most important measure is to make the whole path of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation work better. There are currently 200,000 people with memory disorders in Finland, and if everyone is thought to have two loved ones, memory disorders are intimately affecting more than half a million Finns. According to modern knowledge, memory disorders can be effectively prevented, and therefore measures to promote brain health always pay for themselves. The promotion of brain health starts with maternity clinic services and should be a key issue in promoting health and well-being of all ages. Brain - health lifestyles reduce the risk of disease and also slow down the progression of the disease. I'm glad that this is a matter of power on the government's agenda. Despite the possibilities of prevention, some of us suffer from memory sickness. What happens or does not happen after that explains a lot of costs. There are major differences in the detection, treatment and prevention of memory disorders across Finland. In Finland, a complete treatment chain for memory disorders does not occur, and this increases costs. For example, early detection of memory disorders and treatment initiation significantly improve the effectiveness of treatment. At the moment, memory disorders are diagnosed for an average of two years from the first symptoms, and this time should be reduced. There is not enough rehabilitation and adaptation training for a memory sufferer. The lack of memory nurses working in municipalities is enormous and they are currently not trained anywhere. Working together with a memory nurse and a doctor is a very cost-effective way of treating people living at home with memory disorders and their special needs at the basic level. In many places home care plants the memory sick in their own home within four walls. The most important thing about maintaining memory - impaired function would be regular outdoor activities, and now in many places the memory - impaired ones can’t get out at all. In addition to professionals trained in home care, we definitely need, for example, commercial and cultural huts with which it would be safe for a person with a memory disorder to move outside the home. Other rehabilitation and rehabilitation activities should also be increased, as the ability to function can be maintained and human beings at home continue. At a certain point in illness, it is no longer safe and humane to live in your own home, and so community homes are also needed. Very rarely does a memory sufferer need institutional care, but he needs 24-hour care and care in a home-like environment. I myself would rather talk about a community home than about enhanced service housing. The community home can also be a group home or family home. The community home can also be maintained until the end of the illness if there is sufficient skilled and skilled staff working there. I would like to stress that the number of pairs of hands alone is not enough, because maintaining and promoting the ability to function with memory disorders requires a high level of professionalism. On the other hand, around-the-clock care and care are unlikely to be able to function in a high-quality way with a dimension of less than 0.7, so it is justified to impose the dimensioning on the law. Most of the customers of 24-hour care and care are memory-diseased. Mr President! It is now time for rapid action to be taken in order to ensure equal rights for people with memory disorders and, at the same time, to bring costs under control. In particular, it is important to identify and, where necessary, set up diagnostic provincial care paths for the services needed through the assessment of service needs, using existing good practices and research evidence — these care paths in order. At every level, resources should now be used for this, because with the ageing of the nation, despite preventive measures, the number of people with memory disorders will increase in our country. I am concerned that the importance of this issue is still not recognised, and I hope that you municipal decision-makers here will ask how these matters have been dealt with in your own municipality or region, because if we get the prevention, rehabilitation and treatment of memory disease in order to be able to cope with it, we will also be able to get the costs effectively under control. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u333	Mr President! The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has had a long-standing project to develop our country's medical helicopter operations. This is a very important industry and will improve safety throughout the country, at least where this medical helicopter service is actually available. I hope that the government will make a decisive contribution to this development in the same way as it has done so far. There are certain shortcomings in this area and one serious deficiency is in the South Karelian region, where there is no medical helicopter. This issue has been examined and clarified by various liquidators, and expert reports have come to the conclusion that a medical helicopter should be located in Lappeenranta to serve the people of the South Karelian region, the Saimaa archipelago and the eastern border in the event of a possible emergency. The need is obvious and the need is also lacking. The decision-making process is now in the middle of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and I very much hope that this will be taken into account there in the preparation and finally in the decision-making process. The rescue and medical helicopter belongs to Lappeenranta and must be located there to ensure that the residents of South Karelia receive this important service in the way the Assistant Ombudsman has stated in his statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u334	President! Congressman Kopra took on something very important. There was also a lack of a medical helicopter in South Ostrobothnia, but fortunately that roof is now gone and the medical helicopter is located in Seinäjoki. A really important point is the area you are targeting. However, we are talking about the lives of people and saving lives, as is often the case with medical helicopter services. President! The Government will therefore continue to increase the minimum benefits as implemented during the last parliamentary term. During the last parliamentary term, the Finnish economy was restructured and the employment rate was raised. That is why it is particularly good that, now that the foundation has been made more solid, the government budget for 20 will bring a lot of good, especially for the low-income. Strengthening child and family welfare in society and developing services for children and families is very important, especially at a time when the birth rate is falling. Of course, political means are limited but not insignificant. So the child-friendlyness of society matters. Of course, the hope is that anyone who wants to have a child could have the number of children they want. President! The Centre wants to continue its work to reduce the poverty of families with children and has proposed that in the future, the calculated saving for child supplements resulting from the decrease in the birth rate should be kept within the child supplementation and targeted at increasing child supplements. President! The Government aims to ensure that every Finn receives high-quality social and health services regardless of where he lives and how much he can afford to pay for the service himself. Improving the position of low-income pensioners is also an important issue for the government to implement. The government is therefore significantly increasing the minimum pensions from the beginning of next year, just in line with the central objective. However, the level of pension alone is not the only determining factor in assessing the survival and survival of pensioners in their daily lives. From the point of view of the low-income population, especially the elderly, high-quality and easily accessible, free-of-charge or low-cost basic services are also very important. That is why we must finally bring about social reform during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u335	Mr President! Household reduction plays an important role in relation to social and health care services and people's well-being. The government is reducing the household allowance from 50 to 40 per cent and the remuneration from 20 per cent to 15 per cent. I think it's shortsighted. The government's targeted cut to the household allowance is a cut, especially for families with children and older people. The cut in the household allowance increases the price of renovations and home services and lowers the demand for services. This is likely to increase the risk of an increase in the shadow economy and to reduce employment in the services sector. The meeting has a completely different purpose in relation to the actions of the government. We want to reduce the informal economy, promote employment and defend the smooth running of families with children and older people's daily lives. It is vital that we decision-makers make every effort to ensure that Finland is the most child-friendly country in the world with all indicators. It requires that we do not make it difficult for families to make their daily lives smoother or weaken the opportunities for families with children to buy services that support their lives. Economists see that, in the long term, the effects of the weakening of the household allowance on both employment and the housing of the elderly can be clearly negative. In order to guarantee valuable old age, our society must, as far as possible, support the wishes of the elderly as to where and how they want to grow old. As long as living at home is safe, it is important that there is not only care but also other necessary support and services available at home. These include cleaning services, food services and other home care services. They are important services that make everyday life smoother and easier. About ten years ago, Tampere has developed such a Kotitori model, which aims to make it easier for elderly people to survive in their own home. It provides advice on a wide range of everyday issues, and I think that it could also be an appropriate way to help and advise and the model could be spread elsewhere to support the use of such services, or would encourage them even more. The Coalition Party regards the weakening of the household allowance as a poor employment, family and senior policy. We have come up with our own solution in our alternative budget, and I hope that the government, when it does, will seize the proposal to cancel the cut in the household allowance for those over 75 years of age and increase the household allowance for those over 75 years. It would be a genuine future for Finnish families, elderly people and businesses.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u336	Mr President! A few things: The budget proposal as such is good and socially balanced. It is of the utmost importance that social benefits, basic security, pensions and the position of frontier men are now improved. It is important in the Finnish welfare society. It is also a good thing that the budget is also earmarked for the development of the social and health sector, with which care guarantees and family services are carried forward, 94 million, as I recall. But actually the main message for me now is the reform of social and health services. As has been said here in several speeches, it must now only be achieved during this parliamentary term. I myself come from the area where this integration has been made for social and health services and emergency services and emergency care, that is to say Siun sote. Eksote and Kainuu are in the same situation. We have taken this as far as we can take it in this situation, but we have now become the problem of this economic drive in this area, as has the problem of ownership control. I would like to see a priori these services of social services being carried forward, and this financing model being the first to be resolved, or a package of local government support measures being put in place to repair this model. At the moment, we are building next year's budget for social and health services with an increase of about 2.5 per cent, and at the same time the municipality will have to draw a zero line. A really nasty swingboard overall, and then it suffers in the basics of our education, leisure and early childhood education services. If you think about the financing model as a whole, it must be based on a need-standardized model, which can then also take account of the diversity of the region and, according to it, also provide services. Another issue related to this preparation is then the interface between health and well-being, which is constantly being discussed between our joint municipal authority and the foundation, that whose task it is in this model. As long as this preparation for social services hangs, there is such an unclear situation here, and the promotion of health and well-being is the way in which long-term economic savings can be achieved. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, This cannot be expected for a second term of government, and under no circumstances should any province ideas be confused separately in this preparation. That we will now take the war first to the finish line, and then return to what will be included in the regional tools.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u337	Mr President! I will continue where the previous representative left off, i.e. the social reform. I personally have some contradictions to the fact that we talk so much about these different blocks and structures, which must be moved from one place to another, when, in my opinion, the most essential thing we should look at, regardless of the model, is funding. The share of public funding in Finland’s health expenditure — regardless of the fact that we are constantly talking about cost control — is only the average in the OECD countries, although in general our welfare system and health care should be above the OECD countries. In Finland, public funding accounts for about 75 per cent of health expenditure, while in Sweden, Norway, Denmark, for example, it accounts for 84 to 85 per cent, while in Finland the gross domestic product ratio for health expenditure is the lowest in the whole of the Nordic countries, and above all these expenditures on health care per capita are lower than in other Nordic countries. Of course, this demographic situation of ours and the ageing of the population are these facts, which we will not get anywhere from, but nevertheless these financial issues should be considered in greater detail. It is clear that any kind of structural social welfare reform will not bring us any significant change if we do not increase our resources to basic health care. There is simply too little money. We also have too few doctors. Besides, they're a little in the wrong places, as we know. In this regard, particular attention should be paid to working conditions on the public side, above all to the pressure that young health centre doctors, in particular, are subjected to. After all, the challenges are exactly the same as with the nurses. When we think about this funding, there are no clear and simple solutions to this, but all the more reason why we should be able to think in this society where we want to put money. Do we want to prioritise our health care, put money where it really belongs in the welfare society?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u338	Mr President! This draft budget now implements one of the key proposals for older people in the Government Programme, and I am referring here to this action by the High Commissioner for the Elderly. After all, we in Finland have started to invest in various types of social problems or in the activities of delegates focused on specific groups of people under the Ministry of Justice, and perhaps the most well-known of these are, of course, the Equal Opportunities Ombudsman and the Child Affairs Ombudsman. After all, there was quite a reference to the Child Affairs Ombudsman in the parliamentary debates yesterday when we talked about these children in the al-Holi camp. In other words, in the case of the elderly, we have never had such an activity by the Ombudsman for the Elderly, although it has been discussed and discussed for some twenty years. After all, at the beginning of the 21st century, this was already the subject of a large collection of citizens, and it was also the subject of a citizens' initiative, and through it the will has been expressed that we should also have an elected post focused on matters relating to the elderly, the affairs of the elderly. And this government in this government programme has now recorded this need and will for this sort of senior councillor to be brought here, and now this budget proposal also provides for a resource, so that this much desired and much needed step will be taken and we will have a vocal horn, a person who will independently monitor the state of affairs of the elderly in Finland. Issues such as care for the elderly then get a new, more accurate eye, which is important here. Once again, one of the concrete, fine reforms that implement this government programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u339	Mr President! The Ombudsman has also been on the agenda of the Finns Party for years, and it is a good thing that resources are allocated to it. We also need to know soon what the responsibilities and powers of the Ombudsman for the elderly are, in other words, what he will do in the future. There has been talk here of social reform — should, should, but not. Here we can long and wait and hope for it and create our faith that there will be social war, but we do need those legislative proposals as well. So this is where the time is passing and the hourglass is running, and we will soon be back in a situation where we are considering the laws of war in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and we are running out of time. This is what we are waiting for. The entry into force, the deliberations of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, expert consultations, all take their time, i.e. Hopi Hopi, to hurry. There has been talk of hiring nurses — when are those nurses to be hired? Tehy has today called for EUR 100 million in additional central government contributions to raise the salaries of carers, to the salaries of carers. We've been talking about salaries, and without money, we can't get that nurse. The government has raised small pensions. True, the Finns support the withdrawal of the guarantee pension. Last season it was raised three times. Now comes this one raise. Similarly, we will of course encourage and support the increase in national pensions. But let us remind you of the Mayan rain that what was the government's message back then. Pensions under EUR 1400 are not coming from the May Day crop; between EUR 1200 and EUR 1300 is the limit, which means that we are still a little bit waiting for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u340	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u341	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u342	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u343	Mr President! Mental health problems, especially among children and adolescents, are a huge problem at the moment. Mr Juvonen made this point very well that help should be available from schools on a low threshold, because that is where these children and young people are in the school world. It is far too common for both a child and a family to want to be admitted to treatment and for the child to be taken to a doctor and the doctor to tell them that the child has not tried to commit suicide and that this is why the treatment is not possible. A lot has been said about the rights of the child this week — is this in the best interests of the child? One big question is that even though we are growing wealth at the moment, these mental health problems are growing at least as rapidly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u344	Mr President! My speech also concerns the placement of a medical helicopter in south-eastern Finland. Jyri, Researcher at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health Lilja has assessed the operation of the medical helicopter and also the locations. According to the information published yesterday, he has paid particular attention to the previous government's approach to the south-eastern Finland helicopter. After many steps a year ago, the previous government decided that a helicopter would be located in Kouvola, Utti, instead of Lappeenranta. However, from the point of view of both equality and functionality, the views of previous studies and now also of liquidator Lilja are that Lappeenranta is by far the most sensible location. As Mr Kopra said in his speech, a helicopter from Lappeenranta would also reach people in the north of the province of South Karelia and in the islands of Saimaa who need help. The studies have found that the most functionally sensible thing to do is to place an emergency care aviation service unit specifically in connection with a large-scale emergency care hospital. There is one in Lappeenranta, unlike Kouvola in Ut. In connection with the hospital, that flying unit would bring the best possible benefits. On the other hand, the helicopter team would be supported by the hospital and would also receive its support services from the hospital. I hope that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will look again at this investment decision and that consideration will be made as rationally as possible in terms of overall benefits and effectiveness.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u345	Mr President! It was a good thing to hear that the Social Democrats were still wondering a little bit about whether it would make sense to build a regional government in this country. After all, the Government Programme speaks not only of 18 provinces but of four additional provinces to Uusimaa. A province such as Vantaa—Kerava would be born. But it is a good thing that the Social Democrats are also thinking about the possibility of moving forward with the model that the Coalition Party has advocated, that we should go ahead and get the social and health services in order and then look at the rest. [KimmoKiljuen intermediate call] With regard to the composition of nurses — I would have seen the need for Minister Krista Kiuru to have been here when we are talking today about the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. He promised the Parliament of 0.7's carership for the rest of this year. Now it looks like the clock's ticking, but it doesn't even look like the nurse's size. We have already said that the nurses are not being brought in by this government, but it seems that they are not being brought in by the nurses. The Coalition Party has proposed EUR 150 million for funding next year: it would provide a thousand carers for home service and a thousand carers for 24-hour housing. So we would clearly be on the road to completing this 0.7 in Finland. When Minister Kiuru feels that every time he visits Parliament, he blames the majority for the fact that the nurseship is not progressing, tomorrow we will see what Minister Kiuru thinks when Parliament votes on additional funding of 150 million for care for the elderly. Parliament will also vote on whether, in addition to just fine speeches, there is a real will for a therapeutic guarantee. Tomorrow, Parliament will vote for an additional 35 million to put young people's mental health services in order, of which Minister Kiuru has spoken beautifully and swore his will. Then there's this old-age councilman. I welcome it, I welcome it. And since there was also concern here that powers should also be ensured, it seems now that the Ombudsman is not going to have powers at this stage, and therefore, at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that: The Ombudsman’s Office shall have sufficient appropriations to deal with jurisdiction and irregularities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u346	Mr President! According to THL, the cost of social services will increase significantly in the coming years. It puts a great deal of pressure on the finances of the municipalities. In particular, the increase in the need for services due to ageing and the new obligations imposed by the Government will increase costs. The pressure on large building investments will also increase as the present building stock reaches its end. Institutionally dominated services increase costs, which is why investing in preventive services in municipalities would be particularly important. There has been talk of social reform here tonight. In this respect, the unresolved situation has been going on for more than ten years. The field is frustrated, and perhaps this condition could be described in a way as a spirit of social reform. The lack of clarity of the social welfare reform makes the situation of municipalities even more difficult as a service provider when municipalities are asked to develop their activities without any certainty as to what kind of governance model they are being taken into. The necessary reforms will also be postponed in such an unclear situation. According to the Coalition Party, the reform of services must take place ahead of man and cannot wait for changes in administrative structures. Here, too, I am encouraging the government to make promises to act. I would also like to ask what if we were to focus on prevention and early support, timely access to care and improving the quality of care, effective methods, knowledge management and interoperability of information systems. How far could we go by these measures alone? Research is also needed to develop more quality services and more effective treatments. The previous government promoted important centres of expertise, such as the cancer centre, the genome centre and the drug development centre, and the use of social welfare information. Work on this must continue to be carried out without forgetting the centres of social competence. The Coalition Party will present a total of EUR 13 million in additional contributions to clinical research and research in support of health and well-being. We would increase funding for the development and maintenance of national quality registers, in order to safeguard the work of the Nursing Research Foundation, To draw up recommendations on current care and to finance university-level health research. The research will contribute to improving the health of the population, improving the quality and effectiveness of care and increasing patient safety in social and health care services. Therefore, the value of the research must be recognised in these services.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u347	Mr President! I would like to highlight the amendment made by the Social Insurance Institution during the summer, the consequences of which are particularly for the elderly and pensioners, the very low incomes. According to this Decision, the financial consideration will no longer be taken into account as expenditure on basic income support. This change is based on the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, which in itself was perfectly reasonable, i.e. it was a question of the fact that the financial consideration for paying the debt of the new building cannot be taken into account when receiving income support, which is, of course, quite understandable, because the role of the state is now not to pay for people's new housing and, in particular, investment housing. But Kela then decided to interpret this decision in other ways, which means that Kela will no longer take into account renovation and capital charges as expenditure in income support decisions. So this is very much related to the renovations and plumbing of old dwellings. Even if the dwelling has been renovated for health reasons, this income support will no longer apply to it. This, then, means the problems of income support for people whose housing company, for example, is undergoing that plumbing renovation. And as we know, in those sparsely populated areas, the value of housing is rather low anyway: there are a lot of people who cannot afford to live in the apartment that is being renovated, but actually cannot afford to sell it, because nothing can be gained from it. So in many cases this has resulted in a person’s remaining in debt even after selling the dwelling to the bank and then moving in to rent. It is understood that if a person is forced to move into a rental dwelling after the sale of a dwelling, he is likely to be in need of income support after that, so housing expenditure will of course be higher than it would be in this current dwelling. In other words, this does not provide any good for public finances — not to mention this individual who is suffering. This Kela policy really only affects these people, not the tenants, who are squirming about cheap owner-occupied housing, so this is also a little unbalanced in that sense. And when a person is old, of course, the bank does not usually come with these people even to be flexible with these abbreviations, but these people are forced to sell their homes, where they may have lived most of their lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u348	Mr President! Heinonen, quoting Pekka Tiilikaista, became a poet here, stated that “the clock is ticking, the nurse is measuring”. Please allow me to continue with the idea of ‘clocking, the Government of the Rhine’. We have already heard many times today that this delay in making nurseship a law is due to the fact that we had a change of government. The state of wish is clear, and this has been included in the government programme, and I can assure you, Mr Heinonen, that it will soon be visible. I hope that you will also support it. On the other hand,Mr Juvonen stated that ‘the bell is running,the light rain is continuing’ that ‘however possible,and I pretended to be reading that Mr Heinonen was almost going to be able I have to ask it this way: what is the point of you, in opposition terms, wanting to create the impression that we are not serious about this century of May Day? We are totally serious and serious about that move. You all see that the first steps in this draft budget have now been taken in the objective we set for this parliamentary term. We're talking about four years. Clear first steps have been taken. You see the increases in national and guaranteed pensions — which I am not going to do in this context — and you have also seen the government's will that a threefold effort should be made to negotiate the earnings-related pension scheme for the lowest earnings-related pensions. Now I would like to ask Mr Heinos and Mr Juvonen, when you made a little mockery of it: are you involved in the team that we can negotiate the earnings-related pension system in the triangular way of taking it into the smallest pensions of EUR 100? When we know that pension funds are growing by EUR 8 billion every year, the small few hundred million that is at stake here will not collapse the system in either direction or in the other, on the contrary, will slightly curb its growth. I assume that Mr Heinonen and Mr Juvonen are both behind this objective, because in this way they are somewhat mocked at this serious ambition which the government has.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u349	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u350	Mr President! There is no mockery at all. It is simply a question of reminding us of what has been in your election programme, namely that the EUR 1400 pension is going to be this cent of May Day, which has also been mentioned here. These are just the things that arise now and that have not come true. Mr President! I would like to raise the issue of health services for illegal residents. According to the law, we have the possibility in Finland that illegal residents can receive housing, food and medicines. It is understandable, of course, to help in the crisis when we are in winter or when we are sick, but I do not want to understand that in any way, which is why we are not interested in who these people are who receive these services. Last season, the Finns of Finland already argued, among other things, that these people should be registered, and it was actually voted on and supported by groups other than the Finns of Finland only. It is not in anyone's interest that we have people in Finland who we know nothing about. Yes, it would be very important that if we were to open up services to people, we would know who they are. In this way, the various abuses could also be prevented. The fact that we do not know who they are today has opened up such a black market, among other things. There are rental apartments that accommodate these people at a high price. The Helsingin Sanomat has just reported that a price of between EUR 200 and EUR 300 per night is being requested from those staying illegally in this country. The question arises as to where they can get such sums of money. In other words, it is quite shocking that people's emergency also creates such a business market, and that means that it also creates crime, it also creates trafficking in human beings, it creates everything we want to prevent here. Of course, it would be important for you, the government, to consider whether it would not be reasonable, in the name of humanity and in the name of all ethics, to know who people are here. At the same time, we could prevent these bad weather phenomena, which could possibly be coming, such as crime or trafficking in human beings, as well as actually helping people in their distress. Mr President! Still on pension provision and pensions: We have a huge number of people living alone in Finland, and more and more of them are retired people. At the time of these major renovations, which Mr Purra, for example, raised very well in his speech, a person may find himself in great financial difficulties. It would be very important for us to see the plight of the elderly then. It is also the same if his mate, for example, goes to a nursing home
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u351	Mr President! Much has been said about this increase in small pensions, and the Coalition Party has supported the fact that the guarantee pension will be increased by EUR 50 next year. During the last parliamentary term, when we were on the board, several increases were made to the guarantee pension. They have become very much needed for these people with the smallest pensions. It is also valuable that the national pension is being increased, and in the alternative budget of the coalition there is exactly the same EUR 34 increase in national pensions as the left-wing government is now proposing. But the concern is, of course, the EUR 1300 to EUR 1,400, the lowest earnings-related pensions, the people to whom the former Prime Minister, Antti Rinne, promised EUR 100 more in a clean hand, as for all those who receive less than EUR 1400. These people are not getting the euro from this promise, that is, not even the first euro from the 100 euro, and that is the concern that is there. We are not prepared to cut out other people's pensions in order to correct this gap or the concern that we have these small occupational pensions, and that is why we have shown a quick solution to this next year: a billion-dollar tax cuts on pensions and labour taxation, which would immediately help all those who receive pensions. Then, with regard to this restructuring of pension funds, pension policy makers, social partners and the Pension Insurance Lobby The Tela rejected this proposal by former Prime Minister Antti Rinte to use pension funds to improve women's small occupational pensions. Former Chairman of the Left Alliance, the current CEO of Tela Suvi-Anne Siimes stated: ‘I do not want to provoke. But I would be happy to hear the logic by which these funds could be removed from employment pension funds. In occupational pensions, everyone who participates in the financing will also receive a pension in due course. The idea of retrospective redistribution is strange.” This is what the former Chairman of the Left Alliance, Suvi-Anne Siimes, is saying, who is currently managing Tela. And now, in fact, I would like to ask Mr Kiljue why you do not do it with this German model if you want to do this with your model. In Germany, a clear increase in the level of budgetary resources was made for these people, often women, who are receiving the lowest occupational pensions. And when former Prime Minister Rinne said that now there is money and that we will not allow these restrictions of money to block our thinking, would it not be worth pointing it out?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u352	Mr President! Representative Heinonen approaches this theme with strong rhetoric and good expertise, but he does not fully fill the seed of truth, but he goes around the facts where we are going. You are right that this proposal, which is now here, does not give the euro to those who receive the EUR 1300 to EUR 1400. There are many points where we have already started to transport — you have read the Government Programme — we have now started to try to negotiate the earnings-related pension scheme for the smallest occupational pensions so that it can be obtained without the need to use the budgetary resources for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u353	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u354	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u355	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u356	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u357	Mr President! Yes, Mr. Kiljunen, it's about promises. For the student money, you promised the SDP an increase of EUR 86. The execution is EUR 2 46 cents. It's about the promises you made to the people at the elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u358	Mr President! May Day, Easter and Christmas are great holidays, but I would not wish to have a debate on who has promised what, no matter what party it is. Something has been promised in the Government Programme, and that is what this government is going to do. We do not take responsibility for what some individual party, the Left Alliance or the Christian Democrats, the Swedes, have promised at some point in time when they have become a government party, which is not the case at the moment. The question is that we want to do this policy with this, that we can raise basic income for pensioners on lower incomes, and I am very proud of that. I am also very impressed by what Mr Kiljunen is very good at in translation. I would not really know what kind of water mill Mr Heinonen would get into if we were to leave the budget to increase even more the level of pensioners. I agree that this should be done. We in the whole system certainly have something to say about breaking down, because, in the case of small occupational pensions, we should see not only this accumulation of the index, but rather that we have the basic values there, namely, medicines, housing, clothing, food, where this index should be. I believe that this Parliament can enter into a refined debate on the fact that we need to change this, and then perhaps we will have the right consideration. The representative, Mr Kiljunen, is in it as a key point in making the right judgement on how the purchasing power of our pensioners can be maintained. In no way would I want to be in a situation where, when I retire, my children or grandchildren would have to pay for an increase in my earnings. I don't have to have any more than I have. I'm done with what I've earned with my own work, and that's a good starting point when we talk about...
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u359	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u360	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u361	Mr Heinonen, if we open the replies during this speech, let us go through this debate on pensions a little faster. I want to safeguard a little of the interests of those representatives who still have five different ministries to deal with.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u362	Mr President! We certainly agree that we must take care of the purchasing power of pensions and the livelihood of pensioners. That is why I said that it is good that the guarantee pension and the national pension are now being increased. In fact, these smallest occupational pensions are often discussed. In my opinion, this review of the index, or its basket, is one very sensible approach to better reflect the purchasing behaviour and cost structure of pensioners and so on. I hope we find a common understanding of this. But then it comes to this: how will this level increase be made, since, of course, we are in a situation where, if we do it now from these funds, then it will be reflected in our children's contributions as an increase. The SAK’s Eloranta has stated: ‘We do not want to go down the basic principles of the pension scheme. “ This is what SAK says. Unfortunately, it seems that there is no solution here either for the EK and Akava. And now, in fact, when Mr Kiljunen raised the point that: Marin's government has the will to do it legally from there within the pension system, this is hard news, yes, if the decision is made that the majority of the government parties will intervene in these pension funds. I think that this is one of the big news of tonight's and night's debate that we are prepared to take this action legally.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u363	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u364	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u365	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u366	Mr President! Once again, I will take a stand on this matter of carerhood when the government is told that it will come from there. One of those sayings is, send the child into the woods and go after him yourself. And I am concerned that the government will have an official present the unfortunate news, as it did on Friday last week, against the weekend, telling me that the nurseship will be delayed because the government fell. You told the Finnish people and us parliamentarians that the nurseship was delayed. I'm going to screw up the government, but you don't have to patch it up, you can explain and justify that the bill is now on the Legislative Review Board or that it's being dealt with by the Advisory Council of Local Government and Local Government. And then here the minister says in the week that maybe it will come after all that a few more days will be waiting. And now yesterday he said, or was it today that, well, it won't be time for Parliament to take a break and no one will be able to deal with this proposal, that does it matter whether it comes now or comes next year. It is important to hear the promise when much is promised, and the promise is too much, and it seems to me that you promised too much on the electoral courts when you promised that the nurseship would come because there was no implementation. Let's take a look at that history. Meeting of 19 June 2002 The minister said the nurse's appointment will come. Well, then came the summer, and it didn't come because there was no one to make those statements when people were on vacation. Well, then it came autumn and they said it would be before Christmas. Well, then the government fell. So the master of explanation is at least that board box over there, that's where we've heard these. And, yes, it's just going to start going round and round and thinking, "Oh, my God, what's going on?" I would like to hear it quite honestly — because we know that money is needed there — if there is any other problem there. Is there any constitutional problem, whether we are able to think, promise or dream of this sort of nurseship at all? Is there going to be some kind of trouble that comes from there? Are there any objections from employers? Do the municipalities object? Who's against it? You would tell us fairly, and the fairest thing would always be to be told on weekdays, not against the weekend, and especially not to hide behind an official when you do not have the courage to come and tell bad things yourself. But I've heard bad things around here before. And we all know that it takes two to four months to deal with major legal projects, at its worst even for years, such as these social welfare laws. So this nursing thing isn't easy to do. If the 2008 recommendation on service and quality for older people had never been undermined, we would at present have it on the basis of 0.7 to 0.8, and could actually have operators who would respect it and look at it. In other words, there has been a slight setback here, and the quality of services for older people has been weakened. Do you think we should update it after all? Take the proposal to the government to update the quality of services for the elderly,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u367	Conversation... Oh, it's not over yet. — — — — Mr. Squeezing again.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u368	Mr President! Nor do I want to delay the debate any longer. I understood what the President meant by the fact that there are still other sections here and people want to talk about them. I would like to raise another question, but I do not want to discuss it any further, but just to point out that I have, of course, wondered about it. Mr Juvonen raised the point here earlier that we have hidden people we do not really want to know about, and it makes sense that we have clear information about all the people who live and work in this country. Of course, this is true. After all, we have a difficult situation in which we have people, such as paperless people, who are practically lost, outside the social security system, even outside our medical services. They are freely given and made. When you raised this serious social problem, I cannot help but marvel at the change initiative that you Finns have in this budget, which is in the name of Lulu Rantate, to deduct EUR 5.3 million from the cost of social care for illegal residents.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u369	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u370	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u371	Mr President! I can't tell you how glad I am to be able to justify this. After all, at the beginning of 2017, the law was changed and the government gave it 5 million to the budget in that year, as it did this year, i.e. 5 million have been allocated to healthcare and social care services illegally staying in the country. In the opinion of the True Finns, it is not necessary to maintain the attraction that people come here...
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u372	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u373	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u374	Mr President! One sentence: If someone is in medical or social care, they are known. He is known if he is in medical or social care. This is what makes the problem that we were just talking about deeper.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u375	Section 31 on the Ministry of Transport and Communications is now presented. 45 minutes will be reserved for the general discussion at this stage. — — — — On behalf of the sections of the Committee on Finance, Mr Jokinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u376	Mr President! The budget for the section of the Ministry of Transport and Communications amounts to EUR 3.5 billion, which is approximately EUR 618 million more than in the actual budget of the current year. The additions are based on improvements in the transport network, repair debt management and the development of public passenger transport, among other things, in accordance with the Government Programme guidelines. The committee welcomes the fact that an increase of EUR 2 million will be allocated to improving cybersecurity in line with the Government Programme guidelines. In addition, an additional EUR 1.2 million will be proposed to the Cyber Security Centre next year. With regard to cybersecurity, in order to avoid crises, it is important to ensure adequate funding in the coming years. Additional resources will be allocated to the activities of the Finnish Meteorological Institute for the renewal of the regulatory radar network, the development of the Global Space Weather Centre for Civil Aviation and the research infrastructure for climate change research. The Committee considers these efforts to be important and stresses the importance of a comprehensive network of weather radars, which provides, among other things, measurement data that is important for air traffic, winter maintenance and road safety. Mr President! Net money for basic infrastructure management amounts to EUR 1.4 billion, and in addition, it is estimated that the revenue from the infrastructure management is approximately EUR 50 million. Taking into account all the additions, this appropriation is EUR 344 million more than in the current year's budget. This appropriation has been permanently increased by EUR 300 million, as proposed by the Parliamentary Working Group. The increase in the level of funding for basic transport infrastructure management is absolutely necessary, as despite the efforts made during the last parliamentary term, the correction debt still amounts to around EUR 2.5 billion. The growth of traffic volumes and heavy traffic masses and changing weather conditions will accelerate the growth of the repair debt. It is therefore important that the effectiveness of the funding allocated to the reduction of the correction debt is assessed and that the correction debt is reduced annually. The Committee considers it important that the increase in the level of basic infrastructure management should be managed in a balanced regional way, taking into account, among other things, the needs of the industry. Between 2020 and 2022, funding for basic infrastructure management will also be used for small projects, such as walking, cycling and road safety. The committee welcomes the fact that EUR 20 million will be spent on raising the level to improve the winter maintenance of roads. Mr President! The condition of the fairway network has been improved in many respects within the framework of the correction debt programme for the last parliamentary term, but the road network still has a large number of road sections requiring immediate repairs. For this reason, the committee will add EUR 12950000 to the funding of basic transport infrastructure management in this budget and will allocate it to smaller projects throughout the country promoting road safety, business conditions and walking and cycling. In its report, the committee also takes a position on the functioning of the network and public transport. The Committee stresses that, alongside the preparation of a project company for the development of the network, attention must also be paid to small projects to improve the functioning of the network, which can quickly improve the smooth running of both passenger transport and freight transport. The safety of the network must also be improved and modernised, inter alia, the technology related to access control and traffic management. It is important that the programme to improve level crossing safety continues with a budget of EUR 12 million. Mr President! A total of EUR 499 million will be allocated to infrastructure development investments in the budget, almost all of which will be used to build projects completed in previous years. The draft budget includes one new development project, the electrification of the Hanko- Hyvinkää railway section for EUR 62 million. No new road projects will be launched. The committee considers it important to assess as soon as possible the possibilities of launching the road projects for which road plans are soon getting old. These include the Hartola-Oravakivi Strait of Highway 4 and Hurus-Hietanen of Route 5. The committee proposes a statement in this regard. Mr President! In its report, the committee also supports the promotion of walking and cycling, the development of inland waterways and broadband connections, and the adequacy of the funding for road safety work. The Committee considers it important that the preparation of the 12-year plan for the transport system should proceed as planned so that the long-term plan for Finland's competitiveness, the fight against climate change and the vitality and accessibility of the regions is finally completed in spring 2021. Finally, Mr President, the committee proposes that the mandate of the current Highway 4 Oulu-Kemi project be reviewed by EUR 3 million, from EUR 140 million to EUR 143 million. In addition, the committee will make two statements to Parliament, one relating to public transport projects, the promotion of walking and cycling and the development of urban park access, and the other relating to the acceleration of the launch of bus projects based on ageing project plans between 2020 and 2023. Mr President! Here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u377	Thank you, Chairman Jokinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u378	Mr President! The draft budget of the Ministry of Transport and Communications for 2020 is strongly in line with the Government Programme guidelines. As Mr Jokinen said, the budget for the administrative sector for 2020 amounts to EUR 3.5 billion, which is about EUR 631 million more than the actual budget for the current year. This includes significant investments in improving the transport network, managing the debt to repair, and public passenger transport. The largest budget items are basic infrastructure management, EUR 1.4 billion, bus investments, EUR 638 million, and the purchase and development of public passenger transport, EUR 108.5 million. If I make the four most important withdrawals from this whole, they are as follows: Basic bus maintenance will receive a parliamentaryly agreed increase of EUR 300 million per year in order to pay off the repair debt, with a total increase of EUR 362 million in basic bus maintenance. Secondly, efforts are being made to combat climate change in areas such as low-emission transport, such as a permanent increase of EUR 20 million in public transport support on a climate-based basis, and to promote walking and cycling. Third lift: major rail projects are progressing in line with the decision of the Committee on Economic Policy, and the state is prepared to cover its share of the entire planning for the direction of Turku and Tampere, and the eastern direction is also in the studies. And fourthly: as Mr Jokinen mentioned, investments in cybersecurity are of paramount importance, and they also strengthen Finland's position as a world-class expert in this sector. The Committee on Finance proposes that some EUR 13 million be added to this item to improve 33 small sites across the country, and an additional EUR 12 million will be allocated for the removal of dangerous level crossings. Thus, as a new infrastructure investment project, the electrification of the Hyvinkää-Hanko interconnector, with a mandate of EUR 62 million, will start planning three projects: Tampere-Jyväskylä-rail, Seinäjoki-Vasa-rail and the deepening of the Kemin Ajos fairway. In addition, the appropriations will continue to implement existing infrastructure investments. Taking into account the new projects, there will be seven ongoing road projects in 2020, ten railway projects and three waterway projects. Mr President! The emission reduction targets in transport respond to Finland’s objective of carbon neutrality. Transport emissions will be halved by 2030 as a step towards carbon-free transport. The measures will reduce transport performance and move towards more sustainable modes of mobility, and in order to achieve this objective, additional funding will be allocated to rail investments and the climate-based measures I have mentioned. A total of EUR 25 million has been earmarked for the latter, promoting walking and cycling in 2020. Of this, EUR 14.5 million is state grants to municipalities and EUR 10 million is intended to operate on the state network. In its report, the Committee on Finance has proposed to add a total of EUR 400000 to the item to mark EuroVelo routes and other national routes and to promote school cycling. I thank the committee for these valuable additions. [Second Vice-President JuhoEerola : Like this. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u379	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u380	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u381	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u382	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u383	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u384	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u385	Yes, and after these thanks we will indeed move on to this debate, which will be started by Mr Kymäläinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u386	Mr President! It is indeed a pleasure to be able to deal with this budget, which is going to make huge increases for transport next year, taking into account, for example, this year, which has been exceptionally low both in terms of basic infrastructure management and in terms of investment — 616 million more in transport next year than this year. Significantly, these small transport projects are carried out evenly throughout Finland, a total of 26, and yes, the Committee on Finance must also be commended for adding 33 of these small projects evenly to different parts of Finland during the parliamentary procedure. These have a very significant regional impact. I would like to ask: what model do these project companies now have?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u387	Mr President! There is indeed a need for appropriations on the transport side. The increase in the level of basic bus maintenance is absolutely necessary — thank you for that. It will help to improve projects and roads throughout Finland. I would also like to raise the issue of private road appropriations, which will now be EUR 20 million next year. This is very important, because mainly timber runs from private roads there. Their hull is already failing. There should also be this level increase for the years to come. I personally hope so. The government negotiations covered this issue and hoped that it would be achieved. These walking and cycling projects are also very necessary and important. The 12-year transport system plan is important and I hope that it will be a long-term means of bringing major road projects and rail projects forward. Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister about something that is actually a cross-border project, the extension of the closures of the Saimaa Canal. It's on the government program. I hope that it will be brought forward quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u388	Let's not extend these minutes, even if the locks are extended.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u389	Mr President! In supporting long-distance and local transport, the Government aims to maintain and increase the service level of rail transport and the mode of transport of public transport. Good ideas, but of course you have to invest in them and demand from VR that the trains actually work in the winter and there is room for them. We know that when the first flakes hit the windshield of the train there is a brake failure and the gears do not work and start to be late, and that again makes many people have to drive when they don’t trust that the train will arrive on time when it has to be. If you think about it when you read that somewhere in Japan, when the train left ten seconds in advance, you were apologized, or if it's a minute late, a written apology will be given on the train to people, it is customary in Finland that it may be half an hour late, and it is only stated that your exchange has already passed, that you should wait for the next train. So we're gonna have to invest in this. People want to take the train, but they also have to work on the schedule. That's more of a bet.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u390	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the government for this debt reduction. Thank you for that. Then, on these rail projects, I would like to ask: I am a very concrete person and I would like to see some practicality. Now you are selling property for billions of dollars and, as you said, planning is underway for rail projects north, west and east of Helsinki — there are plans, there are committees, there are working groups. But for example, it would be possible to start making an urban track in Espoo, even if it were right away: in the clay field of Kauklahti. That would be possible. Why is this not being implemented at this stage? These big rail projects would also be a good climate policy. Why are these not being implemented? Are you, as a productive minister, stepping up these projects now?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u391	Mr President! In transport, reducing emissions goes hand in hand with health and safety. The fewer cars there are in traffic, the safer it is for children to walk or cycle to school, and the more people walk and cycle, the better physical condition they stay. However, it is difficult to change ways quickly. That is why it requires genuine action, not just fine words. However, changes can take place. I want to report a positive news from Oulu: since last year the debate on the IPCC report and climate change started, the number of domestic flights has decreased by a few per cent in Oulu and the number of train trips between Oulu and Helsinki has increased by up to 23 per cent, although this train connection still lasts almost six hours. In this budget, it is therefore unprecedented to invest in sustainable transport in order to offer more and more Finns these options to travel by rail, walking, cycling and public transport. I would particularly like to thank you for these investments in cycling, and never before have there been such great efforts in the budgets. I would also like to thank the committee for its efforts in these walking and cycling projects and in promoting bicycle tourism — thank you for these. The Government Programme has also agreed to promote fossil-free transport. As motoring is still needed in many parts of Finland, it is important to develop motoring and traffic in the direction that emission-free alternatives are also available to people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u392	Mr President! Firstly, I too would like to add my thanks to the government for the fact that next year's investments will be substantial on this side of the road, especially for the permanent increase of 300 million to bring this debt of repair to an end. And then I am particularly pleased that these private roads and, in fact, winter maintenance are making considerable improvements. I would like more attention to be paid to this entire lower road network. Then I would have asked the Minister that, knowing that, for example, in my region, Äänekoski, there has been no passenger traffic on the trains for a long time now, and now with the bioproduct plant it has been electrified, would it be possible for these pilot experiments to be continued and these sections of the lines that have already been decommissioned to be used for passenger transport? It is at least well in line with the record of the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u393	Irade the Talman! Ur skärgårdens synvinkel är färtor och förbindelsebåtar den verkliga livsnerven. Tack för de anslag som nu presenteras i budgeten. Det blir antgligen första gången som tillagsanslag inte behöver ges ar från salens siida. Den tolvåriga trafikplanen som nu görs upp är på många sätt viktig, och min förhopppning är att också skärgårdstrafiken kunde tas upp på sätt eller you give i det arbetet. Det skulle vara viktigt att få riktlinjer för landsvägsforjerna, för vajerforjerna och för förbindelsebåtarna. Skärgårdsdelegationen, det vill säga SANK, som också är parliamentarist tillsatt, står gärna till tjänst när det gäller skärgårdstrafikens utvecklingsplaner.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u394	Mr President! When we know that Finland collects more than 8 billion taxes from motorists and less than one and a half billion of them are then spent on various transport projects — all other money goes to other government expenditure — and in Sweden the state collects 11 to 12 billion and then more than 5 billion of them return to road management, and the roads are in better shape there, I would ask: Is there any long-term plan to spend more money from transport or from motorists on basic maintenance and on fairway projects in order to bridge the repair debt in some time? Do you have plans like this? If not, why not? That would be the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u395	Mr President! I'm glad you're here. In the Government Programme of Transport Policy, the Marin Government has given an important role to Finland’s growth accessibility and climate objectives. It is a great thing that, as has been said here in many speeches, there is going to be more money for repairs in road areas and so there will be a lot of money for road safety projects. It is great that the planning of the transport system is now starting to take a long-term view in the parliamentary working group that has begun. This eastern direction, Eastern and Northern Finland, has remained in transport money: from 2004 to 2019 Kainuu, North Savo and North Karelia have received the next weakest in terms of transport funding. It's kind of pathetic that we take a train an hour and a half longer to Kuopio and Joensuu than to Seinäjoki. Yes, this Eastern connection now needs to get into this same rhythm with other major railway projects, and hopefully there will be a common vision in the spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u396	Mr President! First of all, thank you for having the electrification work of both the Laurila-Haaparanta track and the Hanko- Hyvinkää track on the list for the first time. The Hanko- Hyvinkää line will, among other things, remove dangerous level crossings by this means. However, I would have asked about these large railway project companies: when other public bodies are to be able to finance them there, they are not going to be the sole responsibility of the municipalities, are they? After all, the municipal economy is in a rather difficult situation. What are they going to do about it? Then, in fact, as a third question: foreign truck traffic, especially in many sparsely populated areas, causes gray hair in terms of road condition. Are there any plans to make them a little involved in these costs, which is needed for road transport?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u397	Mr President! I would like to make a few comments which have been raised in that committee report. One of the concerns is that when these road plans take a long time to be completed — sometimes with patterns and environmental impact assessments — we now have road projects whose plans are getting old. That is why the committee draws attention to the fact that these are being speeded up so that the road plans do not become obsolete, and then we go back to the new process. These include the Hartola-Oravakivi Strait, which is waiting to be renovated. The second point raised by the committee was this sufficiency of road safety charges. 9.1 million will be spent on promoting road safety and will be collected from motor insurance premiums, which will account for approximately 7.7 million, and we have now had to make up for the budget resources in two years. Let us hope that the Minister will find a long-term solution to finance this. Thirdly, as regards broadband projects, there is still a lack of fibre optic connections in sparsely populated and even urban areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u398	Mr President! I agree with the thanks. It is a good thing that this 300 million was made available to the budget. You don't have to think again in the last year of the reign that there's gonna be a slump, as it is now in 19 C.E. Private road money is an excellent thing with this 20 million. Thank you, Transport. These allocation reserves were also distributed in a balanced way throughout Finland. In fact, the balanced development of Finland requires a good network of fairways. On the rail transport side, I would like to highlight this pilot project. There were happy people at many train stations, especially in Pirkanmaa now on Monday, and the pilot and new schedules provided a good buzz there. The first question is whether these will be followed up. I'm sure these follow-up talks will have to take place early in the year. There is a tough project going on in our municipalities, the "Love the Tracks" project – use more trains. The second thing that may have been weakened by these new timetables is that cross-rail traffic in Finland has deteriorated, and I am concerned about how this transversal rail transport will be invested.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u399	Mr President! I am pleased to note that transport and communication arrangements have succeeded in designing a sensible and effective package that will improve people's mobility and safety, reduce emissions and update information links. This is a comprehensive presentation and investment is very significant. Special thanks to the proposal for a permanent increase in the level of EUR 300 million compared to the previous period.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u400	Mr President! I would also like to ask two specific questions. Thank you very much for electrifying Hanko—Well done, and I ask: because we hear that electricity rapping there in Hyvinkää? I'm looking forward to it. The second question is the timetable for the main track Helsinki-Tampere. I live in Hyvinkää and yesterday I had a conversation with a member of parliament in the bay, and although he has half the distance from home in miles than I have, he is there in the same time. I think it is very important that we have fast transport connections beyond that, but have we forgotten who is closer? So basically, my business trip just keeps getting bigger, and I'm just looking at it. Not bad at the station when the trains pass. In addition, when I go on the train, the train announces that we will now have to wait for the express train to pass. So, considering that 1.6 million people live here in Uusimaa — is it the case that now that we are focusing on long journeys, we nearers have been forgotten?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u401	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for Transport for the presentation and, of course, I wish you much strength and energy for an important task. I would like to ask the same question as Mr Tolvanen raised here about rail projects. I would like to highlight precisely this aspect of EU funding. As we know, we have big rail projects coming up for implementation. Now the Ministry is going through them, including what other funding opportunities we have. We know that the so-called CEF funding has been received in Finland, especially as a financing channel for ports, but we have not managed to get it for the implementation of rail projects. I understand that the current EU financial framework would be possible to apply for these last funds on the CEF side, but in practice it should be done quickly. So the question to you is whether the Government has made a decision to apply for funding,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u402	Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, the city centre led to a new forward-looking stance on transport and telecommunications policy. It was so good and effective that the present government program continues along the same lines. Thank you to the Marin government for that. The committee has managed to allocate these funds to quite a few small projects, especially small regional policy projects such as the Haapavesi bridge in my region, where I live in Haapavesi, a good pot of money has been directed to get across the river bridge in this local community. Investing in this walking and cycling has also been very positive. In my region, Ylivieska has also managed to get this light traffic route, which will get children and young people out of that highway to travel to a safer area than school travel. Mr President! The question to the Minister relates to these railway projects. In connection with the discussion of the Government Programme
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u403	Mr President! Finland is committed to halving transport emissions by 2030. That is what this budget is aiming for, thank you for that. Large railway projects are progressing in line with decisions already taken, and the state is preparing to cover its share of planning in the direction of Turku and Tampere. I would like to ensure full participation in the search for CEF financial instruments. Investing in the design and improvement of tracks affects a large proportion of Finns. Public transport in provincial centres and, above all, rail links are also more than a matter of attraction — they are a prerequisite for the vitality of the province. Efforts are being made to combat climate change in low-emission transport. The permanent climate-based EUR 20 million increase in public transport support is a good example of this. The biogas programme will be promoted next year by EUR 5 million. Walking and cycling are also promoted in next year's budget. All muscle movement promotes well-being, reduces traffic emissions
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u404	Mr President! Finland has long been talking about Eurovignette, and in fact, decision-making at EU level came to an end smartly at the end of the last parliamentary term. Unfortunately, no agreement was reached at the Transport Council in December, so let us wait in that early part of next year if the agreement had already been reached in the next Council together, and then we could have an EU-wide Eurovignette for transport and Finland too would end its ever-lasting espionage. In addition to that, I would like to remind you that we in Finland actually have one of the most reliable rail and air transport packages in the world, precisely as regards the fact that we have machines and trains on the move all year round, and for that we have a great winter experience. We've got to get the same thing down there. That's why we wouldn't want to ride on the tracks where we're going at the moment, especially in northern and eastern Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u405	Mr President! Finland continues to be a strong economy in the export industry, and it is important to increase opportunities to export larger service solutions and packages, including to the major needs of emerging markets. By this I mean services, but also the export industry. In South-East Finland, in addition to Vainikkala, we need another international rail link to Russia. The line through Imatra and Svetogorski allows for increased transport volumes and shortens transport trips to Russia and the Asian markets, especially to the export industries of Eastern and South-East Finland. Imatra will also form a new international rail link with Vainikkala on the EU TEN network, resulting in a direct link via Svetogorski using the newly completed Russian electrified double track between Losevo-Kamennogorsk-Viipur. I would therefore like to ask: what model is the implementation of our first regional project at the moment?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u406	Mr President! At this point, now that there is a minister here, I would have asked about Malmi Airport. In 2018, the Parliament issued a statement entitled ‘The Council of State’s group of measures to secure the replacement of airfield functions in order to enable the aviation Now that the Association had asked for this, the Minister had replied that next year, EUR 900000 has been budgeted to secure airport operations and an additional EUR 2 million has been added to the supplementary proposal. I would have asked: was there more to be done than this funding on this issue, because this replacement field is still missing and the City of Helsinki is planning to land in the field at a high speed?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u407	Mr President! It is important to continue the road repair debt programme, thanks to it, and these large rail projects too, the main railway line in the front, are such that their preparation must proceed. The new road traffic law will enter into force next June and will also allow for higher speeds on motorways, for example. In Denmark, the speed limits for motorways were increased, and in fact it made traffic smoother, but also removed speeding and improved road safety. I would ask Minister of Transport Haraka: are you prepared to try a higher speed limit in Finland next summer, for example on the Tampere motorway? Secondly, Minister of Transport Harakka, what progress has been made in this project to correct the legislation on light cars? Has it been brought to the point where it could be applied for notification in the EU and then, as planned, be brought into force by the postponement of the year in November next year?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u408	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Transport for the significant increase in the funding of basic management. It is the right thing to do when you look at the use of Finland's forest resources, the needs of agriculture, tourism, business activity in general. In rural areas, transport routes are at least as important as here in town, because distances are long. Thank you very much for the speech I have just heard to Mr Bergqvist, who made a strong point about this renovation of the high-speed telecommunications routes. Fast broadband connections belong to Finland as a whole, and it is absolutely necessary to build a fibre optic connection. It should be borne in mind that between link masts, wireless network access does not work unless there is a fibre connection between these masts. That is why, when the budget seems to be short of money, which we all know, the European Union's structural funds must give more impetus to this. And I ask you, when the minister is here, would it be possible to get more kick out of there? I know that there is such a goal in the government programme and the ministers have said it, but is it possible to get money from it, from the Structural Funds, to build this fast broadband system?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u409	Mr President! Thank you to the government for an excellent transport budget. I would like to ask you a question about road safety. This renewal of the licence for the previous period became a minor issue that should be corrected, namely that these slippery driving courses can now only be performed by a simulator. That is, of course, a road safety issue. It should be fixed. There is no need for very big tricks to be done there, so to speak, that, in addition to the training of simulators, the training of slippery driving must also be carried out under conditions that are slippery or difficult. This is what these train training foundations and associations are concerned about, and they have already driven down their tracks because there has been no need. And maybe this will be seen in some statistics, too, if not
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u410	That's a good question. Mr Mäkelä, and then the minister will be able to answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u411	Mr President! Two transport-related issues: There seems to be a sufficient number of railway projects, billions of them being thrown, even though there is not even the first billion. If it were the first billion and was used for the management of the infrastructure repair debt, it would have been a long-standing repair debt, not all but very far. Here I would encourage the repair of its existing network, the removal of level crossings, speed limits and stoppages, and thus making trains run faster. These big rail projects may come in a decade, but we do not even know what they are in the decade, and now in practice they should go for EU funding, because we do not actually have enough national funding for them. The second point is this toll for foreign lorries, which the previous government unfortunately did not make, even though it should have been achieved a few years ago. This is where officials from the Ministry of Finance always come up with one problem after another, why it cannot be done, why it would be difficult and difficult. I hope that this government will now find the means to implement it and not make excuses for not doing so.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u412	Unfortunately, the time for this debate is now beginning to come to an end. Many good questions have not been asked, but good answers will be heard. - Five minutes, and you can talk about the toilet, and it'll look more festive.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u413	Thank you, Speaker! Thank you for the good questions. Let's start with the trains. Mr Lehto expressed the hope that VR's service level would be taken care of or even improved, and I naturally agree as Minister. VR's and rail's share of transport modes also needs to rise considerably. This means more connections and new improvements, one of which is an interesting example from Tampere, to which Mr Pirttila referred, namely that such a local transport pilot has been set up. They exist elsewhere in Finland, and I see no reason why it is not possible to continue improving such a good service. To Mr Kautto, who is also from my region of Äänekoski: personally I would also like to see local transport in the Äänekoski-Jyväskylä region restored. After all, in Jyväskylä there were great tracks 1, 2 and 3 and the track going to Äänekoski 21. Mr Pirttilahti was concerned about transversal connections and it is quite true that they need to be addressed. And I understand that these weakenings, which had entered into force for the Jyväskylä-Pieksämäki-Various section, were corrected. Many questions also came from project companies. Congressman Kymäläinen asked me what was going on. This is where the negotiations on this Turku hour train and the Finnish track are the longest. As far as the hour train is concerned, the negotiations between the parties and the shareholder agreement are easier to understand, while on the Finnish track it is the biggest open issue and still requires action to achieve it. The urban railway in Espoo is connected to this western connection, as Mr Tolvanen has pointed out, but I think it would be useful to deal with this issue in the context of these joint MAL negotiations. Mr Marttinen raised these CEF funds, EU aid, and it is true that it is still possible to apply for some of the so-called tails, i.e. the funds of the Structural Funds period, which is due to expire, and it may be possible to decouple some of these projects from those which are still under construction. But there is no major panic with regard to this search for February in that it is a very small amount. In any case, we must not jeopardise the actual large-scale applications relating to the applications for the Structural Funds period that will start. But it is not a question of large sums of money. Mr Jokinen then drew attention to road safety charges. The situation here is that either we can continue with the budget to fill that deficit, or we need the beneficiaries to develop their activities and then adjust them in accordance with this appropriation. These two options are both quite possible. And the answer to Mr Asell is, of course, that of course we want road safety to improve in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u414	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u415	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u416	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. It will continue later in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u417	The general debate on section 31, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u418	Mr President! In its programme, the Government has promised to make efforts to improve telecommunications connections, but in order to promote broadband projects you will propose exactly EUR 0 for the coming year. How will the government contribute to this if there is no funding? Services, businesses, rural areas and, for example, future transport need functional and comprehensive optical fibre connections. Mobile connections also require a fibre network. Mr President! I would also like to see action from the government to address the problems raised by the reform of the private road law. With the reform, roads without roads may no longer receive winter plowing grants from municipalities, for example. In itself, it is positive that the government spends as much as 20 million on private property, but is that enough? When compared to Sweden in our neighbouring country, the amount is quite modest. Private roads are located not only in residential properties but also in a significant number of more than 30000 companies. With the reform of the law, there seems to be an increase in red tape and the construction of these roads is likely to be very difficult, and I would like to see a correction move from the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u419	Mr President! The Government Programme states that the Government will adopt a law allowing the introduction of road tolls aimed at managing traffic in urban areas. This relates to the section of the Government Programme on Sustainable Development, which deals in particular with climate policy. This issue of tolls was very much raised even before the publication of the Government Programme, and the payments planned for this country in particular were presented as part of the Government's climate policy and as one of the main objectives of the Greens in particular. On the other hand, the city centre also supported payments to this metropolitan area, the poor townspeople. According to the reports, this fee could amount to up to EUR 1000 per year for residents of Helsinki's capital city and several hundred euros per year for residents in other parts of the capital region and around the region. It is clear that, especially for those who come from the Helsinki region's spending limits to work here, this payment would make life more difficult, significantly lower disposable incomes and, consequently, purchasing power. There is no public transport available there either. However, some weeks ago, the then Prime Minister Rinne mentioned in an interview with Helsingin Sanomat that he himself did not really base these tolls. So the then Prime Minister said that there is no basis for the tolls mentioned in the government programme. I have also heard from elsewhere that these tolls would no longer be very high on the government list and that, first of all, they would no longer actually be a climate policy measure, but rather a means of alleviating congestion. I would like an answer to this: perhaps a representative of the government party can say what has happened to these tolls. Are they going to advance here in Uusimaa or somewhere else, or are they not going anywhere? Here in the spending limits and around the capital region, the majority of MPs are also opposed to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u420	Mr President! I asked for this speech initially during the day to ask the Minister whether the preparation of high-speed rail lines has progressed at a sufficient speed, so that the main line will also reach the end of the first year of applying for EU funding. We have called on the Government and the previous Minister for Transport on numerous occasions, but at least I am now seriously concerned that there has been insufficient systematic and objective progress. I hope that the new Minister for Transport will now take a new, vigorous step to ensure that the door does not close in front of us. We are talking about significant amounts of EU aid and time is running out. At the same time, I would like to thank the government for its debt reduction. It's a budget that's got a lot of money put into it. There are many good rail and road links in the budget. Still, a lot of needs remain to wait for their turn. In Pirkanmaa, highways 3, 9 and 12, for example, are anxiously awaiting action. I also made a budget initiative for dismantling the bottleneck at the intersection of Vatinaro in Tampere. It is good that there is now a temporary relief in the additional lane, and I expect that, in the context of the MAL agreement, more extensive arrangements can be made for the crossing area. Our 12-year national transport system reform steering group has started its work and I expect that next year we will be able to make concrete progress on the development of the entire country's transport system in a parliamentary and long-term way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u421	Mr President! The electoral speeches of the present government parties on the establishment of high-speed rail links are threatening to get in the way. There is not enough money available, even though the Marin government is selling several billion dollars of state property — that is, the property that the Left Alliance is now involved in privatizing. The coalition would use these funds for genuine investment in the future and immediately strike the shovels on those tracks whose plans are already in place. Billions of investments in rail and waterway projects indicate that our ambition is considerably higher than that of the government. Among other things, the Coalition Party would reach the planning of the main track north as far as Oulu and Tornio. On the Government's list, the fast connection to the main track ends in Tampere. This can have a significant impact on the application for EU aid in the main line development project. Mr President! There are numerous bottlenecks on the main track. One of the most important is the lack of double track between Liminka and Oulu, which reduces railway capacity for rail traffic and prevents commuter trains in the Oulu region. Climate-friendly local rail transport would above all be an environmental act. In order to break this significant bottleneck, I have taken a budget initiative to build the Liminka-Oulu twin track, and now I appeal to the North-based representatives of the government parties to put this right.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u422	Mr President! Representative Purra: After all, the Government Programme has not been amended and there is a mention that a tax and payment reform for sustainable transport will be launched. It also involves considering these payments. That work is, of course, in progress as a whole, and there are no lines of action yet. It is extremely good that the Marin Government has now put transport policy into an important role in the Government Programme, from the perspective of Finland's growth, accessibility and climate objectives. It is important to take care of the competitiveness of our country from the perspective of Finnish industrial policy, where logistics and fairways, both rail, water and road, play a key role. Of course, it must be happy that the correction debt is now gradually being tightened, and the additional funding of over EUR 300 million for basic bus maintenance next year is a step in the right direction, as is the increase in winter care ratings and additional funding for light transport and transport safety projects. It is therefore important to continue to catch up with the correction debt during the entire Government term, as has been written in the Government Programme. If you look at transport funding in the long term, 2004-2019, three provinces are particularly lagging behind: North Karelia, North Savo and Kainuu. It is now important that, both regionally and within Finland, the position of Eastern Finland can be improved in transport policy as well, and it is great that in its first amending budget in June the Government will also consider the transport needs of Eastern Finland. Eastern Finland must be placed on an equal footing with the rest of Finland, both at travel speeds and in the condition of the transport infrastructure. In the parliamentary transport system work that has begun, we must also mobilise the projects of the eastern railway and the Savo railway, so that we are at least in some way in line with the rest of Finland. A good example of travel speed: at the moment, the main track goes to Seinäjoki for 2 hours 50 minutes, but to Kuopio and Joensuu for 4 hours 15 minutes — last weekend the trains were two and a half hours late due to railway problems. During the last term of the government, cross-border and compulsory purchasing traffic were also greatly shaken and, of course, the same discussions have now taken place with VR, but there has then been an agreement on them, and it is extremely important that the dialogue with the operator, VR, works. But they also need resources to be able to arrange timetables for cross-border traffic, according to their mediation capacity. It is extremely important and great that the government invests in long-term transport planning through parliamentary transport system work, for which there are quite high expectations in terms of the development of road, rail and important water transport, where, of course, the first and most important measures are measures for the Saimaa Canal. It is also good that Sanna Marin, when she was Minister of Transport, took a turn in the preparation of the reform of the taxi law that had gone wrong. Not all of the mistakes that have been made by Minister Berner will be possible, but the service and reliability of taxi services must be restored here in cities and in rural areas. It is also important that the reform and evaluation of the overall taxation of transport should start in order to achieve the climate objectives of the Government Programme and to find a regional balance and to make Finland as a whole on the same track from the point of view of business and mobility. This is the right direction in transport policy and will start with the financial increases in the 2020 budget and the implementation of the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u423	Mr President! In his own good speech, Mr Eskelinen raised concerns about rail connections to Eastern Finland. Nor can I fail to mention at this point that, for example, between the Seinäjoki and Tampere, which has 2.7 million passengers per year, is half the number of passengers on an hour train, for example, between Helsinki and Turku. So, of course, these passenger numbers are also relevant in rail transport. Mr President! Finland is and will be a country of long distances and few settlements. For example, the use of one’s own car will continue to be necessary for many. The promotion of Finland’s competitiveness, the fight against climate change and the vitality and accessibility of the regions require efficient transport connections, well-functioning transport routes and fast broadband connections throughout the country. Finland needs to be developed on an equal footing and listening to people. Roads to remote villages as well as to the city centre are just as much worth developing. Transport emissions must be reduced in a systematic, determined, step-by-step way, and also by moderation. The climate is not saved by making driving more expensive. No single instrument is enough; a number of solutions are needed. Moreover, one parliamentary term is not enough to solve the global climate challenge, which is why Finland needs a parliamentaryly agreed programme that extends over the parliamentary term. We need to switch from fossil fuels to renewable energy, so we want more and more renewables in the tank. This is possible through fuel distribution obligations, electrification of transport and more efficient public transport. High-speed rail connections around Finland create an increasingly attractive alternative to private car use from rail transport and expand the employment opportunities of Finns. President! I would also like to thank South Ostrobothnia for its transport projects, which we are grateful for. For example, the main highway 19, which is part of the main network of highways in South Ostrobothnia, still remains to be financed in the coming years. On the road there is, for example, the headquarters of Atria Corporation with thousands of employees and continuous transport of heavy goods traffic. This significantly hampers the business environment for agile and time-efficient business activities. President! The importance of airports outside Finavia's airport network is also significant from the point of view of regional economy and accessibility. Seinäjoki Airport is a strong regional operator whose existence saves lives — that is, a large number of official activities — and enables the conditions for international business in western Finland. The state of the state's will with regard to these vital provincial fields is somewhat unclear. President! It is clear, however, that this government has made a powerful and vigorous effort to create a better, safer and faster transport and communication network. The Government’s gaze extends to the whole of Finland. During the last parliamentary term, the city centre led to a new, forward-looking stance on transport and telecommunications policy. In fact, it was so good and so effective that the current government programme continues along the same lines.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u424	Mr President! Mr Purra has already mentioned these congestion charges. Indeed, congestion charges or the introduction of an equivalent charge in this situation undermine the profitability of work and increase the effective tax burden on citizens. Soon living in the spending limits will be only a few rights and opportunities. This fee would also vaccinate the highest proportion of low incomes. Is that who the government wants to punish?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u425	Mr President! I, too, am concerned about the accessibility of Eastern and South-Eastern Finland. Effective connections are important to the vitality of the region. With regard to railway projects, it is essential that the improvement of the eastern link is also progressing rapidly. It is necessary not only to prepare a new, faster line connection but also to make repairs on the current network on the Savo and Karelian track. At present, it is precisely this eastern link that is extremely loaded and, therefore, also highly disturbed — even today’s weather has caused disturbances. In addition to tracks, it is also important to develop the Saimaa Canal. The Regional Union of South Karelia and the Advisory Board of Eastern Finland have taken a position on the development of the Saimaa Canal. The Saimaa Canal is an important part of the entire water transport network in Saimaa. Promoting water transport is important both from the point of view of the needs of export companies in Eastern Finland, tourism in Saimaa and the climate and the environment. The more transportation can be moved away from rubber wheels, the better. With regard to the Saimaa Canal, the extension of the closures would allow larger vessels to operate in Saimaa. At the same time, it would also be possible to extend the operating period as vessels would be more ice-resistant. This project is in a hurry as the availability of vessels currently suitable for canal traffic is rapidly decreasing. And it would be important for the development project to start as soon as possible. Regional associations in the Saimaa region have suggested that the project should be carried out with a life cycle model, for example, in which case it would be divided into several years for the budget. It would therefore be very important for the whole project to be considered as quickly as possible in relation to the development of the Saimaa Canal and to get it started.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u426	Mr President! A number of speeches here — most recently by Mrs Holopainen — drew attention to a very important issue, namely the overall renovation of the Saimaa Canal. The Saimaa Canal is beginning to reach the end of its lifetime, and the main thing about this renovation is that the fleets that move around the seas today are so big that new vessels can no longer fit in the Saimaa Canal. Therefore, a comprehensive renovation and an extension of the locks and a renewal of the closing gates in the Saimaa Canal must be carried out in such a way that modern fleet can be accommodated in the future. If this is not done, it will be that transport, export and import traffic on the Saimaa Canal will end when even smaller ships that are now in use will be out of service at the end of their useful life. This is a project of less than EUR 100 million and will ensure that exports and imports continue to operate by water. By comparison: if traffic on the Saimaa Canal ends, it corresponds to the annual traffic on Finnish roads of about 90,000 trucks with current import and export volumes. It is therefore also critical for the climate objectives that this improvement of the Saimaa Canal is carried out and that traffic continues there so that a large number of lorries do not become roadblocks. And so there will not be this CO2 load that would result from such an increase in the number of trucks. I hope that the government will take this issue forward with determination. This is not in next year's budget, but let it be dealt with as soon as possible and let the guidelines be drawn up. From the total renovation of the Saimaa Canal to get to work as quickly as possible and get the renovation started even in 21 C.E. and be ready in 22 C.E.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u427	Mr President! The detail that deserves to be mentioned in this debate is that the Parliamentary Audit Committee commissioned an expert report recommending, in the area of housing policy, that the financial resources of the State Housing Fund be directed towards the financing of transport projects that develop and promote urban structure. When, earlier today, Mr Pitko, who unfortunately is not here at the moment, knew where the money was from for this construction of the Oulu-Liminka twin track, it is now also worth pointing out that the assembly would promote local projects in support of housing and transport and would implement this whole package of Finland in order to which we have reserved EUR 511 million in our alternative budget. The idea behind this option is for the state to contribute to the financing of projects in cities and municipalities that support sustainable mobility and new housing. I hope, of course, that by tomorrow the government will also find the money for this important project for Northern Finland and the main track.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u428	Mr President! There has been a lot of talk about these rail projects throughout the budget debate, but a major project, which is nevertheless easy to implement, has been completely forgotten. I am referring to the Imatra railway crossing on the border between Finland and Russia. Its internationalisation, so that it is open 24 hours a day, has been prepared for a long time, but due to small technical reasons and the absence of an agreement, this opening has not yet been possible. I would like the government to take swift action on this issue. Small actions can make a big difference here. After all, we have agreed with Russia to organise rail transport in such a way that both countries aim to ensure that passenger transport takes the current route, Luomäki — Vainikkala — Pietari route, and then freight transport, i.e. imports and exports, would be made to pass through the Imatra railway border crossing point. It would be very good if this were to happen. This would increase the volume of passenger traffic on this southern track and then provide efficient freight transport on this northern rail route. It's not really about the money. It's about the trouble. With a small investment and agreement with Russia, this would be a matter of urgency. In this respect, the Minister for Transport and the Government are now playing a key role, and this action should be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u429	Mr Heikkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u430	Mr President! I come from Kempelee, the frame house near Oulu, and I have seen in my own everyday life how a car is a necessary commodity. Perhaps that is why Mr Purra's speech on road charges warmed my heart because it is unscrupulous how, for a long time, transport policy has been taken in Finland from the point of view that motorists are always a preferred destination for the tax bear. Perhaps it is for the very reason that driving is a necessity that the tax authority sees it as an eternal mobility, which is always easy to punish with new forms of taxation. I do object to the spirit and the blood of this toll thinking. I have seen in the spending limits a long time that, in the working world of sales agents, carers or professionals who have to carry large, heavy equipment every day, public transport does not become an option. Road tolls are often heard to justify climate reasons, but if we genuinely want to reduce emissions, there are other ways to do so than to punish Finnish transport, which is already in its spot from the tax point of view. If any tax changes are made for motoring, then the overall tax rate for motoring must be reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u431	Presentation of Section 28 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u432	Mr President! We will certainly all share the picture of the situation which was also on the agenda in committee, that the local government economy is in a worryingly weak state and that the deficit is in fact expected to widen further this year. Of course, this is partly due to the cuts in central government shares, but also to the fact that local government expenditure has grown faster than expected, while tax revenue growth has been more subdued than anticipated. Social security expenditure is those that have increased in particular and, on the other hand, local government income tax revenue has been reduced by changes in the tax system which affect this spiraling cycle. The estimate is even so high that the tax revenue is EUR 900 million lower than expected in the spring. If we look at what has happened with the state aid of municipalities, the amount is EUR 11.6 billion, which is actually 8% higher than this year, and it is about EUR 900 million, and the central government of basic services is 7.1 billion. It will increase by around EUR 550 million compared to this year, and if we consider where it will come from, it will come from a cost-sharing review which will increase the central government share by EUR 102 million and from a statutory index increase of EUR 166 million. The increase in central government participation is also affected by the cuts in central government participation related to the Competitiveness Pact and has an impact of EUR 264 million. The Committee welcomes the fact that the size of the state's contribution has taken account of the expansion of early childhood education and the reduction of group sizes, and for this, thank the government. If we look at the current situation, then the local government's financial position will improve slightly next year, but despite these increases, when most state aids are scheduled for next year, around 50 municipalities will be raising their tax rate on the basis of this year, and when these municipalities have almost 0.5 million inhabitants, the increase will be quite significant. In fact, in its own opinion, the committee stresses the need to consider how to promote sound local government finances and sound local government finances. After all, we have had different ideas in the deletions from time to time, for example, that the era of depreciation has been shortened because of the fact that these adjustment measures would not be passed on to the future, but now we see that the rhythm is rather thin and that it causes major difficulties for municipalities. The committee therefore hopes that the Ministry will seriously consider what would be the optimal model. Not a model in which municipalities can slip away from their own responsibilities, but where municipalities would not be in an unreasonable situation because of these time rhythms. The Committee also stresses the importance of local authorities' own actions, through extensive self-government, of what their economy is, and stresses the need to look for cost-effective practices, to adopt good practices and to consider how preventive services can be made more effective, as this will lead to lower costs. But it is just as important to pay attention to how to create vitality and economic activity in municipal areas and how to reduce expenditure on unemployment. There is, of course, a municipal experiment where it is essential that cooperation between municipalities and the state works well and that municipalities are able to invest especially in access to the market for young people, immigrants and people who have been unemployed for a long time, who are in a weak position on the labour market. The committee's views also highlighted, for example, procurement skills and the need to make use of different digitalizations and related enhancements in these projects. The committee wanted to draw attention to the separation of municipalities, to the fact that if you look only at averages, it does not always tell the reality of what is in municipalities and how municipalities cope with statutory obligations to organise services. It is therefore good that the government is making a picture of the situation, which then evaluates what local population development is, how vitality develops, what economic data and so on are, and that is how local pressure calculations come, showing what the future looks like. On the subject of social reform, the committee wanted to increase its impact on local government finances and it was important that these costs of social security should be removed from the hands of individual municipalities. Many people have thought that it would be as if it would bring relief to the local government economy, but when the central government system has focused on social welfare, it may be that these smallest and most vulnerable municipalities are still unable to cope with their own tasks. That is why the committee wishes to emphasise that municipalities must be able to cope with the statutory tasks of municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u433	Congressman Vähämäki. — Excuse me, Minister Paatero.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u434	Thank you, honourable Speaker! In this house, the word of the President is the law, and that is what the President wants to do. In other words, as chairman of the administrative section, I will present the item for Customs' operational expenditure on the budget report 28.10.02. 166 million will be proposed for this item. It is slightly less than two million more than in 2019, and this increase consists of several administrative changes, among other things. So let us anticipate that more customs declarations will come in the future. The committee welcomes the fact that Customs has been able to establish its staff for 1860 man-years. We also note that close and cross-sectoral cooperation still needs to be continued. The committee therefore notes that cooperation between the actors should be balanced and that the conditions for action should be equal. I would like to highlight one point of pain, namely that the budget does indeed correspond to the compulsory cost increases of Customs in other respects, except in relation to the costs incurred by the introduction of the Tuvee. In addition, changes in the levying of small VAT levies will entail costs in the future, i.e. the legislation which is likely to be decided by Parliament next spring. Finally, it is noted that smooth customs clearances promote foreign trade in Finland and, on the other hand, prevent prohibited products, such as drugs, from entering the country. The development of supervisory work will require investments in new technological equipment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u435	And then Minister Paatero.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u436	Mr President! I would like to thank both sections and the Committee on Administrative Affairs and, of course, the Committee on Finance, which has been able to conclude the report itself. In general, we in the state administration have the objective of getting the best public administration in the world, and a wide range of measures are being taken. For us, state administration operates on the basis of good governance and, of course, its reliability and civic orientation are the basis on which this good administration works. The Ministry of Finance is responsible, as part of the Government, for the effectiveness and efficiency of public administration. Digitality, which has also been mentioned in several speeches, and which has been raised here in protests and in the report itself, is part of our idea of customer orientation, which can be used to improve the service. In the same way, multi-placed and flexible work can be developed, which is also important from the point of view of equality, not only for workers but also for people with services. Digitalization can reduce the need for people to travel to services, facilitate people to travel for work, and reduce the needs for premises. This will also enable us, on the part of the Ministry of Finance, to respond to the reduction of the carbon footprint. On the other hand, productivity can also be improved. For municipalities, there is an increase of EUR 1.1 billion in the decisions of this government, of which 237 million was already decided on for the amending budget this year. Now there are no more cuts in index increases or actual central government participation cuts. Next year we are moving to a new era in this regard, and in 20 years the standard standard level of basic services will rise from 7.1 billion to 7.4 billion, and, as the Chairman of the Section for Local Government and Health of the Committee on Finance has just said, 550 million will be added to the actual state share of basic services. A few words from the state administration. We have the objective of improving productivity, but not reducing staff, and I believe that this is very possible. Retirement occurs, but productivity can be improved by improving education and training, by considering how services are acquired, how research is carried out, how we have better information, on the basis of which decisions are then prepared. In connection with digitalisation, a separate budget of approximately EUR 38 million will be made available to promote digitalisation on the state side, which will enable these services to be produced in different parts of Finland. There were 30 million municipalities for this year and 40 million for next year for the promotion of digitality, which was very popular on the part of municipalities when the search was conducted in two stages, and now EUR 40 million for next year. On the security networks, which have also just been mentioned, we have taken decisions in the Committee of Ministers on Economic Policy this week, Tuesday, and next year we will begin the renewal of the safety net, namely the Virve network. Of course, the network has been in operation for decades and needs phase 2. There is also money for this. This report also drew attention to procurements, and they are now in a new phase, because municipal procurement and Hansel are united, and now we and the Association of Local and Regional Authorities have also launched a joint procurement-Suomi action programme, where a very wide range of experts from all over the world are engaged in a joint strategy, how public procurement — which is a significant sum of approximately EUR 35 billion annually — can be used better and more effectively so that they also serve our government programme, which is socially and ecologically and economically based. This also requires a new Hilma programme, that is, the programme through which tenders are then put forward. With regard to municipalities, the additional money, once agreed in the Government Programme that 100% of the compensation will be for new and expanding tasks, has now been made for early childhood education — both subjective day care and group sizes — and also for Vaasa Hospital. President! I am happy to answer the questions and I will continue with these other issues that have not been dealt with.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u437	Thank you, and then we will move forward in the form of a general debate. Debat time about half an hour, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u438	Mr President! Thank you, Minister. Social reform is essential, and we all agree on this. The war is made man above, which means that the social welfare reform starts by investing in content and services. In parallel, however, we will have to undertake structural reforms, for example, by moving from the responsibility for organising municipalities to self-governing social welfare regions and building larger entities there. To this end, the government has earmarked EUR 200 million in transfer appropriations for the preparation of the regional reform. And now I ask the assembly: I read the objection to the Assembly — you are proposing to reduce this item by EUR 100 million from the preparatory funds for the regional reform. I am truly amazed when I understand that you also agree that the reform of social security must be carried out during this term of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u439	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister and to the section presidents for this presentation. Indeed, the situation is that the finances of the municipalities are in a bad state. That is not going anywhere, and that is also what we heard in the hearings of the Section for Local and Regional Authorities and Health, and we went over this very thoroughly, as the report shows for us. In this regard, the section president, Mr Filatov, has already referred to this as an improvement in the financial situation of the municipalities, such as, in technical terms, these depreciation periods, and the way in which the municipalities themselves shape them. They have been such a long - term problem. But I personally think that, as is the case here in the report, we should now find every possible means of facilitating this economic situation in the municipalities. And so I ask Minister Paatero: how do you think — in the referral debate I asked about this same issue and I would ask again now — whether we should move on to this point, that there could be such flexibility in these deletions then in the case of the problem communities?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u440	Mr President! This is where Mr Filatov began excellently that 50 municipalities have to raise their tax base. The economic situation of municipalities seems to be the worst in the period since 1997, the same, current calculation system in place. In addition to this, many hospital districts also make very deficit budget proposals: in Pirkanmaa, for example, 23 million, which cannot fail to affect citizens' services, and in addition, the government is still making a deficit budget — this entire public finances is in an extremely bad situation. And I think that's the big question we should see here. I am not going to go back to the employment issues that are clearly waiting to be resolved here, but then, when we add today's news of what is happening in the labour market — the OAJ presented its possible strike plans, As far as Tehy is concerned, we are already talking about an additional budget of EUR 100 million from the state to raise wages, and I ask: how will you, Minister of Local Government, keep this under the control of public finances?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u441	Mr President! My own municipality has also followed these rather vague tax revenue forecasts throughout the autumn. Each of the following forecasts shows a different kind of income, and on this basis the development of local government finances over the next few years has been very, very difficult. The number of central government shares in relation to the tasks has remained rather outnumbered on that part of the municipality, and the local government finances are at a disadvantage not only in Lohja. At the same time, the pressure on investment in indoor air-conditioned buildings is quite high, and the next step is health problems and higher costs of health care. Do you have any plans at all to help repair these indoor air-conditioned school properties and medical properties?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u442	Mr President! For my part, I would also like to draw attention to this situation in local government finances and to these challenges, above all with regard to next year's budget. It has been quite a lottery, how and how the budget can be prepared, when there has been so much tossing on tax revenue. Secondly, this municipal deficit, and just as we do, the deficit of the Kainuu wars of 20 million — it has local authorities to do. Recovery measures are taken and so away, but when the services should also be provided, we are here as between two fires. And that is why I hope that this social welfare reform will finally come and finish it now with this group. Finally, the effect of Brexit. Customs is prepared by an increase of EUR 3.3 million in the possible income of Brexit, which seems to be very timely. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u443	Mr President! The state of municipal finances has been well highlighted in this Chamber. After all, the weakening that has taken place in previous years has led to the fact that what this government has inherited at the moment is very challenging. What is symbolic is that if a decision is taken at the end of a parliament to change tax laws in relation to what is or may not be deducted from a municipal tax or other decisions that affect that municipal tax revenue, then of course it is visible there in the municipalities. And the municipalities will only be able to decide on the level of the tax, which will then be limited to the possibility of deciding on their own finances, so it is a good thing that the government is specifically committed to the fact that no decision can be taken either to create holes in the municipal economy or to introduce additional obligations, but not to provide compensatory funding, and it is of course of paramount importance to stick to this. But there's something else I'd like to ask you. An increasing proportion of municipal money goes to various acquisitions. It is known, for example, that digital systems should be purchased elsewhere and not produced as their own production. How to ensure that procurement is kept under control and that the procurement competence of municipalities can be developed in order to achieve the precise financial management but, on the other hand, to acquire the systems, services, goods required in municipalities to run the services.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u444	Mr President! I agree with these challenges in the municipal economy. These are quite large deficits that municipalities are making right now. At that point, when Pierainen also raised these hospital district deficits: I think the region of Pirkanmaa TAYS is in deficit with 23 million. This is where I quickly looked at the section entitled ‘Determining Municipal Finance’. If it's $10 million, it doesn't make those things for a lot of municipalities today. And if we see — now that the councils were probably in more municipalities this week — even two or three years ahead of this planning period, it seems that there will be even more darker clouds for the year 22. So we do need that social welfare reform. I'm sure it's one of the bottoms. We've been practicing it for 15 years now. We have been burning a lot of energy, money and mental strength on our municipalities to practice it for 15 years. I would see it as one of the reasons, because about 70 per cent of the municipalities' finances are currently entering that social war. So I hope for energy and speed in this project.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u445	Mr President! Promoting the digitalisation of society is one of the most important actions of our time, and even though we are a recognised technology society in the world, we are beyond help. We do not have the necessary telecommunications connections and the current connections will not be sufficient as the data transfer volume continues to grow. Digitalisation should be promoted at all possible levels, but services will not develop in the absence of links. Mr President! It has to be said that municipal and state digital services and, for example, the procurement of information systems are far too often unsuccessful. The costs are running away, and the schedules are running out. In what ways does the government intend to genuinely promote digitalisation? Will it be possible to spend the money in a way that will take the digital society forward? And how will the accessibility of digital services be ensured on an equal basis from the place of residence or even from the age of the customer?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u446	Mr President! As is unfortunately clear from the debates in this Chamber, these problems and challenges in the municipal economy are currently quite great, and it must also be pointed out that the challenges have only increased from the spring 2019 estimates. And as has been said here, spending is growing on the social side of Finland. However, I would like to thank the Minister for his rapid response to these autumn municipals in order to avoid a major disaster in the autumn. Thank you, Minister Paatero. The economic challenges not only affect large cities, but also small municipalities, and I think this is an important point: large cities are also facing major challenges in this situation, especially when it comes to preparing for services and preparing for investment needs. I would like to ask the Minister how the Minister will take account of these investment needs of large cities in his own work, for example now in connection with this social and regional reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u447	Mr President! This has been discussed about the finances of municipalities and their weak state. Of course, the whole of public finances is in trouble, largely due to tax policy. After all, this has long been the case with a tax and payment policy that has benefited businesses and employers, namely the owners of capital and employers. The different benefits for businesses and employers in the past ten years amount to up to EUR 22 billion. It includes corporate tax, the write-off of the Kela levy, measures of the kiky agreement. Dividends have increased over the past five years from EUR 16.5 billion to EUR 23 billion. Dividends from stock exchange companies — the 60 largest — amounted to EUR 13.5 billion, an increase of EUR 2 billion in recent years. I'm asking, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u448	Mr President! This committee's report has rightly highlighted the fact that the local authority is currently particularly burdened by the lack of information on the timetable for the social welfare reform. Indeed, many municipalities have made those sub-budgets, or have been heavily invested in their own health centres and elderly services, because there is no information as to whether they will then be transferred to the province and whether it will escape the only health station from its own municipality of origin. The second thing that has been well raised here is this process of differentiation, which is currently taking place in the municipalities. I am pleased that the government intends to prepare such a picture of the situation, and it is likely that we will be receiving it early in the year, because at the moment 88 municipalities are applying for this discretionary grant. I would have asked the Minister: how can we manage this when, as I understand it, there is not much money available to help these municipalities? And then the startling thing is that in a fifth of the municipalities the birth rate is less than 20 children per year. And this, if anything, will make a difference.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u449	Mr President, Mr President! From the point of view of the finances of municipalities, it is not only expenditure that can be cut, but also the income base. And this week the Bank of Finland also reminded us that Finland's productivity performance has been slow for the past 10 years. Throughout the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, we have heard about how Finland should invest in knowledge, product development and innovation policy, so that we can continue to do well. After all, we have all the prerequisites, and we must now, this Parliament and this government must make the choice that we are going to reach out to this productivity development or that we are not going to. It does require that we increase starting places in Finland as a whole, but also in Uusimaa, because the Bank of Finland reminds us that education still has a great deal to do with the employment of people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u450	Mr President! The ageing of the population should be seen as an opportunity, not a threat. What measures does the government intend to take to keep older people longer in working life? Many people would like to continue working when they retire and thus improve local government finances.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u451	Mr President! The prospects for municipalities are indeed challenging: the need for construction is decreasing and investment growth is decreasing, world trade is slowing down and exports are slowing down. These will inevitably also have an impact on the local economy and are very damaging signs from the point of view of employment. The number of pensioners will increase and the debts of municipalities and joint municipal authorities will increase at the same time. Decisions should also be taken responsibly in the municipalities, and the question is how we can better deliver this message to the decision-makers about this overall situation. And another point to which Mr Paatero referred in his speech, namely the carbon footprint and climate change: Urbanisation and construction are the issues that significantly increase this carbon footprint. We have such a contradiction here that, on the one hand, we are giving arava lending to promote urbanisation and, on the other hand, we are also giving relief aid for the dismantling of arava loans from deprived cities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u452	Mr President! As has been said unanimously in this Chamber, the most important thing of this reign is to finally get the war to the finish line. I myself come from North Karelia, where we built this Siu sociale, and now, after several years, it can be said that it does not work much better with the joint municipal board model. So now both the municipalities and Siun sociale are in trouble, so we look forward to this reform being carried forward. There's no way to blame this guy. In my opinion, they have acted with real responsibility all over Finland, set up future working groups and economic groups, and will probably do everything in their power to survive. But on the other hand, even municipal decision-makers will probably get desperation at some point, and the direction of this house will be the focus of attention. Here Mr Honkonen, among other things, raised this issue of deletion and the matter of write-down, and I would have liked to ask the Minister the same question, because it is often a double problem in the municipality: it involves investing in expensive new school property or health property, while at the same time making millions of deletions or write-downs. Is there any relief in what schedule? This would be such a quick solution to that municipality, at least temporarily, before we finally get to that war.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u453	Mr President! As has been said here, many municipalities have taken painful decisions this autumn when next year's budgets have been adopted. Local government finances are in distress, and that means drastic cuts in services that are important to the population, precisely the services that we legislate on here. This year, tax revenue growth has been EUR 900 million weaker than expected in the spring, and a new worrying phenomenon is that vibrant growth cities are also producing a negative result. For example, in my strongly growing hometown of Espoo, population growth no longer means the increase in tax revenue in the same way as before. And when the pressure on investment is quite high, the city is in debt at a worrying pace. It is very important that the picture of the situation of municipalities is now carefully assessed and that it is done in the light of the diversity of municipalities. The reform of the central government shares of municipalities should also be reviewed, how it would better address the challenges facing growth cities. I therefore ask whether this aspect has been taken into account in this assessment of the situation picture of municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u454	Mr President! Municipalities are in a very bad economic situation at the moment. It is also largely due to the fact that during the previous period these central government shares of municipalities were frozen and these central government shares were not allowed to increase at all. Secondly, although employment improved, the tax revenue of the municipalities did not increase. There's some kind of wonder, which last season left me wondering what went wrong with it worse. But then to the big challenges, to this war. Last season, we were tuning up that transfer of property. I was wondering how this period will be managed smartly and wisely with this transfer of property, also in respect of immovable property and also this movable property.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u455	Then four debatable speeches and five minutes for the minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u456	Mr President! Thank you again for the floor. I would like to point out that, when we go a little deeper into this local government economy and the cost of social and health services, we are unfortunately unable to believe that this issue will only be resolved through social welfare reform, even if it is important. I have also looked at this situation from the point of view of my own municipality and many local authorities. Of course, it goes without saying that the cost of ageing will increase and we must honour the elderly. But if you also see what else has happened, there is an increase in the number of detentions, there is an increase in the drug problem, there is social exclusion among young people, there is a variety of different types. In other words, the need for services and the price of their services will increase significantly. They grow much faster than the incomes of municipalities, and they inevitably cause problems in the local government economy — and really huge problems. So there are many things in this society that should be put right.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u457	Mr President! As has been said in several speeches, municipal economies face a wide range of challenges. There is no balance between revenue and expenditure and no longer any delay can be made in such damped investment needs. Of course, service needs, especially in the event of war, are creating growing expenditure pressures, and the economic differences between municipalities are increasing. Together, all of these create a challenge that has been said sadly little: equality between residents. I would like to ask: do the government have plans to think about ways to do this in a situation where perhaps next year will be better, but we are already in the middle of big problems in 2021?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u458	Mr President! Mr Satonen raised an important issue of how to take care of the ability and well-being of the population. But they're the foundation of the economy. That's where the public money and the tax revenue come from. This is a challenge that the government is dealing with in a wide-ranging way. When talking about reduced well-being and working capacity, investment in mental health services, especially the development of a low-threshold model, is relevant. After all, at the moment we have an unfortunate emphasis on the situation when the problems have already worsened. It is known that many municipalities have good models for low-threshold services. Now we're going to identify them, develop them and take them nationwide. The same applies to the promotion of physical health. It is known that it pays to invest in walking, cycling, hobbies, other healthy everyday lifestyles. This, too, is what the government is trying to spread through the municipalities. That's the challenge, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u459	Mr President! A few more thought after that introductory presentation. When you look at that personal tax revenue that really lags behind a couple of billions — at the same time we have varied quite a bit as to how it has gone to plus or minus corporate tax revenue and person base — yet when we have an increase in the employment rate over the past few years, the question arises as to whether this can all be due to a change in the tax system or to an income register. Or is there something structural inside that is related to the change in our working life? I would therefore really like to see an analysis carried out that this change in work affects, for example, the tax revenue of municipalities and the tax revenue of the state, because those thresholds are at a very different level. If we now have more people doing the same job, it will look good in the employment rate, but it may produce a lower result in our tax system than in the other way around, because current transfers are more taxed than work. In other words, there are many changes that do not, as it were, fit together at the moment. Employment has improved, yet there is a big gap in tax revenues. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u460	Mr President! This issue of taxation is a tricky one, because, after all, we have agreed that if tax changes are made on the part of the State, i.e. deductions and other things, they will be replaced by tax base changes for municipalities, and that is what has been done, but despite the fact that the tax revenues of the municipalities are far behind. We had a government evening school here, where we also went through this and decided to settle in a little bit more, because we currently have about 40% of people who do not pay municipal taxes, and that is because that limit on earnings is about EUR 15,000 and on pension income is EUR 11,000 and those who live on capital income pay nothing, and that is why this tax base in municipalities is deteriorating. This question of the contribution of capital income tax to this part of municipal taxation has been raised from time to time, but it has been said so far that, when it is also targeted at local authorities very unequally — because we have municipalities that do not have a lot of people living on capital income, and others that do, and most often those that have, are in better shape than before — it would require quite a compensatory system. To this same question, I will continue with the system of state aids, which also became questions. In other words, now that we have this social welfare reform coming, of course it is also necessary to re-evaluate the system of state subsidies for municipalities, and at the same time consider this situation in the growth cities, that there will then be... Some time ago there have been separate investment grants in this area as an addition to the state contribution, but at present they do not exist, but there is one system of state participation. This system of state aids will be reviewed at the point where there is a social welfare reform. This question about the funding of the social welfare structure by Mrs Kiljunen: we already have a draft regulation on it, and I hope that right from the beginning of the year, this EUR 211 million, which was the whole of it, will be available to the municipalities and regions, and that part of it has already been spent. So we're not cutting 100 million out of it. Depreciation and write-downs have been discussed many times. We had a good discussion with the regional town network here just a few weeks ago and decided together to consider what all the means are, because the municipalities are also divided about this. Some municipalities believe that this is an impossible situation for equality between municipalities, that some municipalities would be given this opportunity for deletions or in a different way for write-downs and other municipalities not, and therefore the municipalities might not like it. The second point is that it would be only a short-term relief. I know it has been on the table, but we may have had others to consider whether they are possible demolition aids or something else, but they have not yet been examined as a whole. Good question about communication connections from Simula. This is what we, together with the LVM, are going to do — whether those networks are now actually dug into the ground or in the future as 5G — that all municipalities, all regions, also have access to this multi-stational work and digital services, which has been the goal, but that is not possible if we do not have these networks. This cooperation is being carried out with LVM, and now Timo Harakka started there. This picture of the situation, which Heinäluoma really drew attention to at the turn of the year, is more accurate by municipality, because we have information in the big picture for these 311 municipalities so that the most difficult situation is what Sari Essayah referred to, where birth rates are very low. Many of them are these municipalities with less than 6,000 inhabitants. For example, the pressure on local government tax is 3% in most cases, but this is not the whole truth, because some people are still doing well there. We need to get a little bit more into these, and then we can go to what the more detailed measures can then be. An easy way for municipalities to do better in the future would be for us, the State, to have a lot more money, but once we have agreed that the entire public finances are in 2023 balance, and this local government finances are part of the requirement for the balance of central government finances, it is rigorous and requires responsible decision-making from all of us decision-makers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u461	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. It will continue later in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u462	The general debate on Section 28, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session, will now continue. Representative Heinäluoma — absent, representative Laukkanen — absent, representative Grahn-Laasonen — also absent, representative Kankaanniemi — does not appear, absent, representative Heikkinen Janne. — Mr Heikkinen, wake up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u463	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u464	Let's go ahead with the list if we find it in the meantime. — Representative Holopainen Mari — absent, representative Kiljunen Kimmo — absent, representative Elo Tiina — absent, representative Talvitie — absent, representative Salonen — absent, representative Salmon — absent, representative Hoskonen — absent, representative Heikkinen has found his speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u465	Presentation of Section 24 on the administrative branch of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At this stage, 1 hour has been reserved for the general discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u466	Honorable Speaker! I would now like to present the section president's section's contribution to the budget report. In this section, we have two key elements in the budget report, to which attention is paid, on the one hand, the Foreign Affairs Administration and its operating expenditure with real estate expenditure, and, on the other hand, international development cooperation, which includes development cooperation itself in its many forms, financial investment in development cooperation, The capitalisation of Finnfund and the new rule of law article. I'm going to go over these briefly with a few pain spots. A total of 237 million will be proposed for the operational expenditure of the Foreign Affairs Administration next year, with an increase of 200 million. The activities are based on a strong delegation of 142 million people. The intention is to open four new delegations during the parliamentary term, one of them in 2020. An increase of 4.5 million is proposed in order to strengthen the processing of entry issues in delegations. The aim is to eliminate bottlenecks in immigration and to develop visa activities. Cooperation between Team Finland actors will be strengthened, with the aim of gaining more exports and investment. The committee highlights the cumulative effects of the so-called JTS productivity savings, which will cut the planned increases for the spending limits period from 2023 onwards. On the other hand, productivity development in the administrative sector should continue and more effective approaches should be sought with other Nordic countries, EU countries and the EU External Action Service. In the case of development cooperation, 684 million will be proposed, which will be 101 million more than in 2019. The committee considers this increase to be a step in the right direction and believes that, in the long term, the aim should be to achieve the UN target of 0.7 % of GDP. Next year, Finland's GDP level for development cooperation will be 0.41. This information can also be found on page 142 of the budget, and it also shows how the GDP share has changed annually. The committee also notes that it is essential to increase the support of the LDCs in line with the stated objective. The Committee considers the priorities set out above to be good and highlights, in particular, the strengthening of the role of women and girls and the promotion of the economy and the creation of new jobs in developing countries. In accordance with the Government Programme, investments in civil cooperation and multilateral cooperation are being prepared. Above all, the Committee points out the support for civil cooperation and believes that, in line with the Government Programme, this support should be increased, because action is often used to reach people in the most vulnerable positions. The increase of 700000 by the committee is aimed, among other things, at training projects to increase teacher skills, mobility and cooperation in the field of education exports. Finnfund will be presented with a capital injection of 10 million. Finnfund will make approximately 200 million investment decisions this year. Returnable capital will continue to be invested in new areas of development. Most of the investments are in the three poorest OECD-DAC categories. In 2018, investments employed 56,000 persons, one third of whom were women. The committee considers Finnfund to be effective and stresses its transparency. These activities are guided by the same objectives as gifted development cooperation. Finally, on financial investment in development cooperation: the achievement of the objectives of the UN Sustainable Development Agenda requires a wide range of actors and mutually supportive measures. Therefore, gift-based assistance and loan and venture capital investments should be complementary. In national accounts, these financial investments in development cooperation do not, in line with the budget, increase the central government deficit and these have a return expectation. Finally, the report states that, for the benefit of Finland’s strong judicial expertise, a new article is also included in the budget to support these projects, which are essential for the development of the rule of law. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Finally, I would like to express my wish that, given that certain issues have been dealt with in a very broad way in the middle of yesterday's debate, we could now turn our attention to the issues contained in this article and in this section. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u467	Mr President! First of all, thank Mrs Vähämäki for her excellent speech and for the work done by the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the in-depth examination of this draft budget for 2020 and for the valuable comments that have just been heard. In accordance with the Government Programme, the budget aims to strengthen Finland's international visibility and effectiveness, and it actually has three priorities: first to improve the operating conditions of the representation network; secondly, to participate in international conflict prevention and mediation; and thirdly, to ensure the level of development funding that Minister Skinner is talking about. The starting point is, of course, our values in foreign policy: the rule of law, peace, human rights, which we rely on in all international activities. We have also tried to take into account the far-reaching issues facing not only Finland, so you could say, the whole of humanity — climate change, demographic trends, biodiversity loss, environmental viability — all of which require extensive cooperation, and then the Paris climate agreement and Agenda 2030 will also provide the basis for this action in Finland. Mr President! In the world it seems that multilateralism, multilateral cooperation, is currently in a very serious crisis. It can be said that international cooperation structures, such as the UN system, are currently suffering from a wide range of confrontations. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is working to strengthen the multilateral rule-based system, international law, democracy and human rights, and the role and capacity of the UN. We are about to end our own presidency of the European Union. The European Union remains the main reference framework and channel of influence for Finland's external relations and increasingly also the security community to which we rely, and our intention is to continue our active EU policy even after this presidency. Mr President! As has been said, EUR 237 million is now being proposed for the operating expenditure of the Foreign Affairs Administration, with an increase of EUR 12 million, mainly in the form of budget increases under the Government Programme. Above all, we are investing in an important network of representations to which all the activities of the Foreign Service are based, and the role of this network of delegations in the implementation of our foreign policy is also extremely important. In accordance with the Government Programme, we intend to open up four years, i.e. by 2023, four new delegations. The main focus will then be on southeast and southern Asia and western Africa. Now, in November of this year, the Finnish Embassy in Baghdad, Iraq, has been reopened. Representative Mr Vähämäki raised an important issue which the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Finance have pointed out, namely the so-called JTS billion in productivity savings, which should be implemented in such a way as not to jeopardise this network of delegations and its development. In order to achieve this goal, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will continue to cooperate with the Delegation Networks and to identify opportunities for cooperation, including with the Nordic countries and the EU countries. Mr President! The draft budget also draws attention to the needs of work-related immigration and the role played by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on this issue. The draft budget will enable the processing of entry cases under the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to be strengthened. A separate allocation of EUR 4.5 million is proposed for this purpose, of which EUR 2.5 million is a permanent increase. A specific programme of measures has already been prepared within the Ministry, which will strengthen the resources of the delegations, in particular to tackle bottlenecks in work-related migration. The draft budget also includes a very important addition for the staff of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, a reform of the day care allowance for the families of staff seconded to the Ministry, which ensures the right of children to early education and promotes the work opportunities of their spouses at the place of employment. Mr President! Finally, international crisis management, civilian crisis management and military crisis management also receive increases in this budget, and this also happens to mediation. A total of EUR 2.5 million is proposed for mediation, of which EUR 1.5 million is proposed as a one-off additional effort. Peace mediation, crisis management, both civilian crisis management and military crisis management are the priorities of this government, and these priorities are reflected in this budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u468	Mr President! Finland participates in solving global problems through development cooperation, humanitarian aid and international climate finance. In addition to this, Finnish innovations — technological and social — are also helping to solve global challenges. A strong rule-based system, an international community and cooperation are needed now more than ever. A prosperous, more stable and equal world is also in the interests of Finns. Development cooperation provides the basis for Finnish companies’ access to open markets. Climate and development challenges will only be resolved through international cooperation. Moreover, our own security is increasingly dependent on the rest of the world. During the autumn, good and thorough work has been done on the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the Finance Committee chaired by Mr Koskinen and in the Administrative and Security Section chaired by Mr Vähämäki and in the Foreign Affairs Committee chaired by Mr Niiko. Thank you for the important comments and the debate. The budget allocated to actual development cooperation will amount to around EUR 685 million in 2020, increasing by around EUR 100 million from the previous year. Overall, development expenditure is estimated to be just over EUR 1 billion next year. This corresponds to around 0.41% of gross national income. At the same time, I would like to thank the Committee on Finance for the EUR 700000 increase in the actual item on development cooperation. The draft budget has been drawn up in accordance with the development policy objectives of the Government Programme. Funding allocation is guided by four priorities in Finland: 1) women and girls, 2) working and living conditions, 3) education and active societies, and 4) climate change and natural resources, as well as humanitarian aid. Further efforts are planned in the areas of non-governmental organisations' development cooperation, humanitarian aid and multilateral cooperation. The development cooperation of NGOs will increase by more than EUR 10 million. As the Committee on Finance also states in its report, an adequate level of humanitarian aid must be guaranteed. The level of funding for these two forms of cooperation will be gradually increased during the Government term. The human rights-based nature of development cooperation will be strengthened, and special attention will now be paid to taking into account cross-cutting objectives in all activities. Mr President! International climate finance is planned to grow steadily during the Government term. In particular, a balance will be sought between mitigation and adaptation measures. The multilateral organisations supported by Finland are demonstrably professional and effective actors with a wide geographical and thematic coverage. Finland influences and supervises the activities of organisations, for example by participating in their board work and in cooperation between the EU and donors. In order to achieve sustainable development objectives, public development aid alone is not enough. Mixed funding is needed together with the public and private sectors and a genuine private sector commitment to development objectives. This will create business partnerships and jobs. During the Government term, approximately 130 million dollars of financial investments are made annually in accordance with the objectives of the plan that implements the Government Programme and covers the entire parliamentary term. Mr President! Uncertainties in the global economy also have an impact on Finland's export prospects. Signs of economic decline in key trading partners are already visible. The possible expansion of the trade war is a major threat to our economic growth and jobs. As a small domestic market, we are quite dependent on foreign trade — both exports and imports. For a small, open and integrated economy such as Finland, it is essential for the EU to promote an open, ambitious and rule-based trade policy. We will continue to influence the new Commission to ensure this. Trade policy also reacted to the world around us. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u469	Thank you. Then we move to the stage of debatability in this debate, and we have about half an hour to spend on this. Then there are the ministers’ speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u470	Mr President! The primary purpose of foreign and security policy is, of course, to safeguard independence, the well-being and security of Finland and Finns, and to strengthen Finland's international position. However, just over EUR 1 billion, or 82% of the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has been allocated to development expenditure alone. Although there has been talk for years of the functioning or inaction of development cooperation, traditional development aid work has not been reformed. For example, in the context of the natural disaster in Haiti and the Ebola crisis, only 1% of humanitarian international aid went to the local population. At the same time, Finnish Business Finland’s operations are being undermined in some respects. According to an EK survey, one quarter of the exporting companies have been dissatisfied with Business Finland’s services. In September, Business Finland suspended the payment of its loans to the Finnish company because this year's budget had run out. Many internationalising Finnish companies [President : Time! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u471	Mr President! Finland’s pride in democracy, education, clean water, the systematic handling of waste and energy know-how are excellent export products, for example, to Africa. It is a good thing that the network of representatives is expanding and, for example, we get Western Africa as part of Finland's network of representatives. It is important to remember, however, that Africa cannot be defined as a single and similar area, just as Europe cannot be defined, for example. Each African country is different, and it poses challenges to the network of representatives and Business Finland in Africa. How do you feel that, in developing the Africa strategy in particular, we will be able to respond to the crying need we would have, so that we can then also export these Finnish prides to Africa?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u472	Mr President! Of course, predictability becomes more difficult as multilateralism weakens. That's the problem. It is a problem for everyone, but it is a particular challenge for small countries, of course, with small resources. In this respect, it is sometimes important to look at the whole in a rather open-minded way: how, in circumstances such as these, could our ability to react to international developments also on the resource side be seen as having the opportunity to meet the challenges that we are facing in any case. Let me take a few examples. I think it is important to be able to use the limited resources of targeted mediation in a targeted way, i.e. effectively, when the situation justifies it. Peace mediation can be a great opportunity for Finland’s foreign policy. And the second to which the Minister referred is also crisis management, where there should be an opportunity to respond quickly to the needs that arise. I'll take an example from the other side. We set up a...
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u473	Mr President! Finland receives praise for its foreign and security policy — most recently last week in the United States in bilateral discussions with local policies and high officials — for ensuring our own security, for taking care of our own property here, and we are also active in this international crisis management policy and, globally, we are very much in favour of our own bread. This is an important issue, and we must continue to do so. It is good that we are now investing in this network of representations and that we are present in a wider part of the world, but there are, of course, concerns about this. This so-called JTS billion, mentioned by Minister Haavisto there, brings threats. It also puts pressure on cutting down the network of representations. I would like to ask you, Mr Foreign Minister: how will the functioning and coverage of the network of delegations be ensured? You mention that, among other things, Nordic cooperation will be increased, but what are the targets and how is this progressing in practice so that we can ensure our presence around the world in good cooperation?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u474	Mr President! I have the courage to disagree with Mr Nikon on the effectiveness of our development policy, and I would like to express my thanks to the Government for continuing to pursue these priorities, as the result report showed very strongly at the time last autumn. I would also like to thank Minister Skinner for your strong emphasis on the importance of cooperation — the importance of international cooperation — and also on the fact that the gift money alone is not enough, but on the need for cooperation with the private sector. I think it is an enormously important observation that this government will also continue to do so. Now that we have got the UN UN UNIL and UNOPS in Espoo, when that report also called for investments in business networking, I would like to ask your opinion whether the fact that these activities are now close to us means something to the effect that Finnish companies will also have access to major international development projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u475	Mr President! I share the view of the Estonian representative that Mr Niiko's speech was not a statement by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but by Mr Niiko's speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u476	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u477	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u478	Mr President! In my speech, I did use the term that development cooperation has not been reformed for a long time, and there is always a need for reform when the use of development funds is being evaluated. I'm sure everyone here will admit that if, for example, in these countries I mentioned, one percent of the money goes where help has to go in such natural disasters, then there are new things to do. We Finns, of course, understand that there are many different aspects of this use of development cooperation money. For example, we understand that these organisations, which operate from Finland, are doing very much effective and transparent and corruption-free work. But then again we are critical of bilateral funding for some countries. For example, we continue to give EUR 30 million per year to Afghanistan, of which EUR 10 million go in practice directly through budget support and EUR 20 million through UN organisations. Looking at those results during the last parliamentary term, I was not convinced that it would be the most effective way to use it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u479	Mr President! Different divisions, confrontation and the return of power policy make defending and developing the principles of a rule-based international system and international law difficult but all the more important. The deepening of international cooperation, the strengthening of democratic structures and the clarification of common rules of play are necessary in order to achieve, for example, these UN Sustainable Development Goals and the objectives of the Paris climate agreement. It is therefore good that Finland aims to play a bigger role in the world as a whole, both by strengthening the network of representatives and the expertise of mediation. People have the right to freedom from want and misery all over the world. That is why global responsibility and solidarity are also urgently needed today and will ultimately benefit everyone. I very much welcome the fact that the budget for development cooperation is turning towards growth. It is particularly important that: Finland points the way in promoting and defending the rights of women and girls — especially when there is serious resistance to them in the world at the moment. I'd like to finish with Minister Skinner:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u480	Mr President! In the world, challenges are changing all the time. I think that development cooperation and our foreign policy will change, but the challenges are constantly new and, of course, we will have to reflect on them. The importance of multilateral cooperation and the importance of multilateral standards and human rights has been highlighted here, and I myself think that, although we have very well raised women in development cooperation, for example, we should perhaps think more about how we could support those organisations that really want to promote equality policy. This is a cross-cutting point, both within the EU and within the EU's foreign policy and in our foreign policy, where we should perhaps develop strategies for the participation of organisations, perhaps NGOs, but also international organisations, in the UN and other multi-links, which are specifically in favour of strengthening gender equality policy. For example, Finland has just awarded Equality Now a great award, they have succeeded in changing discriminatory legislation towards women in 50 countries, and we should be more present.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u481	Mr President! In the centre, emphasis has been placed on the representation network and its improvement, especially in these world political times. However, those representations and that staff there are our eyes and ears in that world, and more is definitely needed. I would also like to thank Mrs Kanerva for her excellent speech on mediation and crisis management. In these sectors, we need to improve further. A few questions not for ministers, but actually for the opposition: I would like to ask the Finns of Finland, when there is talk of moral support here in protest, that the moral argument for supporting other countries is questionable: what is the idea here that this should not be done? And, actually, from the assembly: you have this investment contribution of 20 million in development aid, and I fully understand its objective, but does this represent the consistency that you are calling for in your protest?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u482	Mr President! I was going to have a little problem with the philosophy of expanding the representation network. We are now setting up our own delegation in Baghdad, for example, and in a very important country we are going to have to act, in a way, in a very isolated state alone. Would it make sense to look for synergies in delegations where it is necessary, however, to have a deep understanding of the political, economic and security backgrounds and to seek some form of cooperation with similar countries, because I assume that acting alone in a country such as Iraq may not in itself be the most productive from that point of view? In this respect, I would like to ask: do we not, after all, cooperate with the same-minded countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u483	Mr President! In this context, it can be said with real satisfaction that the funding of NGOs for development cooperation has been increased. That is extremely important. There many, say, organizations of conviction and cause, including Christian organizations, do a tremendous job, and there the money is not lost in corruption or lost on the way, but it is actually able to do good work with local, reliable partners to build people’s future there on the ground. Thank you for this. There should certainly be greater coordination at EU level, and this is actually the question for the Minister: now that we have our own liaison in the Commission, especially in that direction in Africa, if that is what you can say, Commissioner Urplainen, how could the effectiveness of development cooperation at EU level be improved and precisely that coordination and the prevention of duplication?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u484	Mr President! Financial investments have become one of the instruments for financing development cooperation, although there is so far little information on the long-term development impact of investments and on their overall performance and effectiveness. Moreover, existing development finance instruments do not allow for flexible multi-operator cooperation between private companies, NGOs and, for example, research institutions. What means does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs intend to promote cooperation and dialogue between development organisations and companies promoting sustainable development? And how is the effectiveness, effectiveness and ethics of financial investments currently monitored at the Ministry?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u485	Mr President! As several speakers have pointed out, development cooperation is a truly impressive way of building peace, security and global stability. I would have asked how to tackle children in particular during this period. It is known that this period is in the process of a strategy for Africa. It is partly related to development cooperation, some of which are related to other policies. It is known that the majority of the population in Africa are under the age of 25 and a large proportion are under the age of 15. How to ensure, in particular, that children have a more sustainable future? And when development cooperation and many others have become increasingly business-oriented, Mr Honkasalo's investment-oriented approach, how does this relate to the promotion of children's interests in development cooperation and in Finnish politics in general? It is known that there, for example, in the fields of education, education, health care,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u486	Mr President! In my speech, I would have continued a little on the important and relevant reflection by Mrs Kanerva on the cooperation that we can make in that world. In addition to this example of Iraq, in which the EU countries are undoubtedly necessary to us, I recognise from that world that we could also perhaps have a little chance to copy the example of Holland, although it has a fairly honourable trade history, of the cooperation they are doing between the Benelux countries, that is, apart from having such full-service missions of our own, we could then have not only such missions of cooperation in more challenging countries, such as Iraq, but also export-oriented cooperation platforms, for example, between the Nordic countries. So what opportunities do you, ministers, see in cooperation in relation to exports, but also in relation to such challenging countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u487	Mr President! Development cooperation is an important element and an important activity for the people living there, but as was heard here in the Minister's introductory speech, it is also very important for Finnish exports, as has been referred to here. Now I would actually ask Minister Skinner: What kind of Finnish innovations are currently planned? Is it hard to talk about them if they're that secret? But how, in terms of business exports, could things be taken forward, mainly on the energy side and so on in developing countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u488	Mr President! It has been wondered that the Finns of Peru are proposing a cut in development aid, although at the same time we are calling for better control of immigration. The fact is, however, that while Finland and other Western countries have been dumping in Africa unfathomable amounts of money since World War II, the pressure to move from Africa is still greater than ever. Clearly, the current form of development aid does not prevent or even curb migration.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u489	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u490	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u491	Mr President! Recently, there has been a lively debate in our country about helping Finns in the Al-Holi camp in Syria. There are many dimensions to this debate, but I personally have been disturbed by the fact that both in this Chamber and outside this Chamber there has been an appeal for international law and international agreements binding on Finland to oblige us to help the children to Finland and, if the interests of the children so require, the mothers to Finland. When Finland's line in this respect differs from that of all the other Nordic countries and also from that of most other EU countries, I simply ask Foreign Minister Haavisto: what are the international agreements, i.e. what is the part of international law that binds Finland and obliges us, but not in the same way binds other Nordic countries and most other Union countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u492	Mr President! I too agree with the fact that it has now been pointed out that the peace mediation agenda should be stepped up, and the Foreign Minister has also said on several occasions that we are also trying to discuss this matter with the committee. The second point is this network of representations. It would also be worth considering lighter models that could also exploit those hired at the site, perhaps more than is done. Many other countries are doing this because it is, of course, central to its presence. But I would like to ask Mr Niiko quite frankly when you made a follow-up speech: did the content mean that you are not a member of the group? To the motion made by Vähämäki on behalf of the Finns of Finland that the development aid budget should be abolished, 300 million? Am I to understand that you are not committing to that initiative and are voting against it?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u493	Mr President! In this development cooperation, particular emphasis should be placed on getting clean water, food and energy to countries where there are problems in this respect. And when we have knowledge for all of these in Finland, both in food knowledge and then in this clean energy, we should also be able to make more use of this in this context, in the context of this development aid. In fact, Minister Skinner is now asking what export prospects currently exist for Finnish energy companies and companies, and for exporting Finnish food expertise, so that this agriculture, energy expertise, forestry can be used and improved more strongly in those countries where there is no such know-how. In my opinion, this would be the best job of having one's own business opportunities and opportunities to live in these countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u494	Mr President! Good cooperation, understanding, humanity and rigidity are necessary in development cooperation and also in international activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Human life situations, living conditions and ideologies can drive people into very desperate choices. Finland has cooperated internationally in the coalition to defeat the Isis caliphate. During and after the operation of the caliphate, networks, cells and also individual actors in different countries, possibly planning and carrying out unpleasant activities, have been the guidelines. I would have asked: what kind of efforts do ministers have in order to avoid such unfortunate events and to get the people who are planning to do so out of this kind of activity? And on the other hand, I would have liked to ask about living conditions in Africa: in what way are there investments in using new Finnish technology so,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u495	Mr President! There is, of course, a need for development policy and development funds, including direct grants. Improving the position of girls is an example of one. The effects of climate change are particularly acute for girls living in developing countries, and as the drought increases, they are taking more time to search for water, and this is, for example, out of the possibility of training. And when we fall far short of the goal of getting the girls to school, we also fall far short of the goal of developing countries and of developing equality there. Women's and girls' rights are also on the agenda in international contexts. At the moment, the rise of conservative forces seems to be strengthening, and this is what is undermining the rights of girls and women. I would have asked Minister Skinner: how do you see that we can help prevent this development?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u496	Mr President! The representative, Mrs Suomela, raised the children quite rightly and with great importance. At present, 264 million children do not go to school, and 800 million children, even if they are in apparent education, do not learn any basic skills. We are all aware that education is the basis for all sustainable social and economic growth, and in this way the role and future of children can be improved permanently by targeting aid for education. I would like to ask honourable ministers: how do you see the role of education exports and education in development cooperation in general?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u497	Mr President! I am delighted that the role of development cooperation has been raised in so many speeches in the section of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and development policy is a very central and close part of our foreign and security policy. Our common concern, as the Minister said at the beginning, is this 0.7% target, which is still a distant objective for us in terms of development cooperation appropriations, despite the additions made to these appropriations. Would Minister Skinner have been able to open the road map and the plan which has been in progress at the Ministry in order to promote this objective in line with international commitments? In addition, these priorities, which have been a very important part of development policy: girls and women in particular, but also in the future with a strengthening of democracy and the rule of law. I'd like to hear more about this, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u498	Mr President! A total of approximately EUR 1.2 billion is presented in the section of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is EUR 120 million more than in 19. Traditional development aid has been criticised for years for its inaction, and a representative This disaster in Haiti was well highlighted by Niikko, where, indeed, only 1% went to the population. Minister Skinner, why could Finland not focus on one area, even if it was this education, and get the right impact with it? This would also enable us to monitor these financial flows and where they go. If we do not receive training in Africa, for example, then we can slip there just how much money and nothing will happen. So that training would play a very important role there. Then: Will the use of funds be monitored, and if so, what will be done if it is found that these funds are being misused? A significant part of the budget for multilateral development cooperation will be spent on the World Bank's additional funding and on the UN's general grants. Where does this money really go?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u499	Mr President! We here last night had a debate on the Al-Hol situation a little after 3:00 a.m. There must have been a burning obstacle for the Members who want to continue the debate today to be unable to attend. However, I personally would like to see this limited period of time spent on this budget, which is also
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u500	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u501	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u502	Mr President! The state of life of human rights defenders has narrowed, not only in the poorest countries, perhaps in the least developed countries, but also in developing countries and even in rich countries. This is reflected, for example, in the spread of such anti-gender ideology in Europe. It specifically wants to undermine the position and democracy of women and of all other minorities, among others. It seems that education in democracy and human rights would have a pretty big place, even in terms of foreign policy, to keep this multilateral cooperation and legal architecture up. Finland is applying for membership of the Human Rights Council, and I was wondering if the Foreign Minister already had any ideas about this: Is this a good instrument in which we can promote these things? Is there anything else that could support the role of human rights defenders in particular, because there is a great deal of focus today on that after-work and on solving problems? Mr Zyskowicz, I would like to suggest that Dr. Sanna Mustasaari, a doctor of private international law, has just written a very good blog.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u503	I will give you two more speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u504	President! This is where representative Kivisaari and representative Savola at least, perhaps someone else, talked about education and Savola about food, water and energy. However, a serious question about a matter which has become quite important to me and which the President of the Republic has given serious attention to a couple of public occasions. Would there be any way in the study that Finland would take one special country, an appropriate resource for Finland, whose entire education system we would try to plan from the beginning, perhaps from pre-school to higher education? This has usually been greeted with great satisfaction, but there is no action. I ask the honourable gentlemen: would it even be possible to draw up a plan and assess the viability of such an opportunity and also to make it publicly available for assessment?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u505	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u506	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u507	Mr Ovaska and Mr Niikko, then the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u508	Mr President! Another good speech by Mrs Kanerva. After all, we have private companies that sell, for example, the whole of early childhood education or pre-school education, but we should also think about state actors, think about this whole thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u509	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u510	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u511	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u512	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u513	Mr President! I would have mentioned to Mr Kiljunen that it is not about the evilness of the Finns in terms of development cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u514	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u515	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u516	Mr President! First of all, thank you for the good questions and the speeches. First, the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Niiko, for the first round of your question as to whether the interests of Finland are being promoted in foreign policy or how it is being promoted through this international cooperation. I was talking about the problems of multilateralism. I personally see that what we are doing in the EU, the UN, the OSCE, in Ukraine, what we are doing in the coalition against ISIS, is indeed defending Finland's interests and Finland's security. I do not see any contradiction here, and the interest of Finland is, of course, crucial to why we are involved in such international cooperation. You asked a specific question about the Baghdad delegation, and it is true that the change in the security situation in Baghdad will of course affect both the security costs there and the pace at which people can be returned, but perhaps we should look a little beyond today and consider it important, however, that we have representation there. We must also remember that we now have our own soldiers and our own staff in Iraq, and this too is important when we are there in the fight against terrorism, that we then have all the support from the Foreign Affairs Department. Mr Salonen and Mr Hyrkko asked about this strategy for Africa, and indeed it is more than development cooperation. It is Finland's political cooperation with African institutions, such as the African Union, and with various countries. Africa cannot be put in one package, the countries are different, and this strategy must take account of this, but the education that many people have spoken about here will be absolutely central, and also how we can respond to the needs of this young population there, how we can create the jobs, how we can create the economy that creates opportunities for people in our own countries, and how we will do this in cooperation with future EU decisions on Africa. In this respect, Commissioner Urpilainen's role as a cooperation body is absolutely central to us, and it is good that we can do this. The representative, Mr Kanerva, took a very good question about our resources and our ability to react with regard to mediation, civilian crisis management, military crisis management. After all, we have had such a system in which, if necessary, military crisis management is financed through additional budgets. There will now be more resources for mediation, and it is precisely the intention that it will be flexible and be able to focus on situations and moments in which Finland can influence, and even on conflict prevention in some cases. We have a lot of expertise.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u517	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u518	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u519	Mr President! Thank you for the good questions and very much, could you say, for the good openings? I would like to begin, Mr Niikko, when you went into the relationship between development and trade at all. That is a very good question, and I myself have used Holland as an example of it. In the Netherlands, too, the Minister's portfolio is development and trade. They go hand in hand, and so they go hand in hand with us, so this synergy, cooperation overall, symbiosis, is important. But I would point out in this connection that when a Finnish minister travels, he is often asked only what innovations you could bring from Finland. We have a very good reputation, we have very good technological, social innovations, which means that this is also exports of its knowledge and innovation, which means that we are also selling ourselves in that sense. Business Finland's role: this belongs to the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, so Minister Lintilä is the right answer to this, but I say that our job in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to understand the demand that is happening on the market, to know the market and to tell it to Business Finland, who will then be building this innovation activity here in Finland together with the industry, and I think that we have made very good progress here, and now, under the leadership of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, we are working on a programme for export and international growth, in which this very functionality and all will come to light, and we will return to this in the coming winter. Representative Salonen: Africa's potential. All in all, I would say that the project activity today must also be linked to system-level, system-level operations, and that is the development that has taken place and takes place in Finland and is visible internationally. It also means what we are doing in Ethiopia or Kenya, and now that you have asked about potential, for example, with Vaisala in Addis Ababa, we made a deal of EUR 13 million. There is, of course, a great deal of groundwork that has been done there, that we should be able to take away the innovation activity, the excellence of the climate sector, where we are the best in the world, together with the Meteorological Institute, and this involves the Africa strategy, to which Mr Haavisto, of course, referred. But we must recognise the diversity of these countries, as you said, Mr Salonen. Ethiopia is different from Kenya. That approach to society is different. Sometimes it's the public sector, sometimes it's private. You have to know that, you have to feel it to get results and real cooperation. Representative Estonian: UN, UN actors, UNOPS, other cooperation. Of course, it is easy to say and thank you for continuing on the Estonian line, because the groundwork that has been done in Finland for years now bears fruit. Now it's bearing fruit. UNOPS Project Office here, a couple of billions of projects portfolio, truly global value chains present. Now it's here. It has been a long job, but, as you said and asked, we must now involve businesses, industry, the university world, all Finns, and this is the work we are doing now, and here I also hope to work with all of you. Mr Kiljunen, Mr Kimmo: Parliamentary cooperation. Can there be more important things? I appreciate the discussion I have had with you over the past few months, and also the members of the Finnish Parliament Group thank you for the constructive dialogue and discussion we have had. Very good conversation, questions, answers. I very much appreciate it, and let us continue this good dialogue, also in connection with the construction of this road map. Let us work together, discuss and seek common solutions, even if we do not all agree. Sexual and reproductive health, representative Hyrkko: How do we see this whole thing when we have similar countries, even now in Nairobi about 50 copies, but where the United States, for example, is not involved? On the contrary, there are protests there. The Nordic countries are together, including the Netherlands, a lot, a lot of the world, and I myself talked about such 90% rules also with the United States. We agree with the majority of things, but the remaining 10% is admittedly difficult. But it is also important that we have a dialogue here with the United States and others who do not agree 100%, and together we will achieve it. Among other things, I have invited U.S.ID to Finland for the very reason that we are engaged in this dialogue together. Representative Essayah: cooperation at EU level. The Commission, Parliament as a whole, has already begun excellent cooperation here, will be very close, and in this strategy for Africa, led by Mr Haavisto, we will certainly be in close cooperation with our European colleagues, including the Commission and the Commissioner, who this time is Finnish. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u520	The debate and the debate will be suspended and will be resumed at a later date in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u521	The general debate on Section 24, which was interrupted earlier in this plenary session, will now be continued by Mr Laukkanen — absent, Sirén — absent. Now for the company, Congressman Heikkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u522	Mr President! I think in that way that there is always reason to respect others present in such a way as to prepare well for these speeches and thus save us all time, and now it really is a mistake that the speech was forgotten, but here we are. It must therefore be said at the outset that citizens do not feel that it is fair for the government to increase the jobs of its own counterparts so massively in relation to previous governments. It is therefore appropriate to save the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from the budget of the political staff. This should also be done in all other sections. And if, Mr President, we have to say a word about this development cooperation, then the Assembly will see that the resources of the actual development cooperation must be transferred to financial investment in development cooperation of EUR 20 million. Since 2016, Finland has put part of its development aid into financial investments, and they are also part of the global trend. This is based on calculations that the UN Sustainable Development Goals will not be achieved without private actors and investment. Private entrepreneurship and business keep the world on track in all parts of the world and emerging economies are no exception in this respect. Mr President! We believe in the meeting that strengthening financial investment is more effective and effective in development cooperation than carrying water into the well.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u523	Presentation of Section 27 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Defence 45 minutes will be reserved for the general discussion at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u524	Honorable Speaker! I would now like to present, as chairman of the administrative section, the contribution of the defence administrative sector to the budget report. The committee highlights two key elements of Section 27, on the one hand, the operational expenditure of the Defence Forces, including personnel and real estate expenditure, and, on the other hand, the purchase of military weapons by its own item. The section also includes a new item for the purpose of the HX acquisition. I'm going to go over these briefly with a few pain spots. Approximately 8 million fewer than in the 2019 budget are proposed for the Defence Administration's operating expenditure. The proposal for the coming year is 1932 million. According to the Government Programme's guidelines, the Defence Forces' personnel will be increased by 100 persons during the spending limits period, from which an increase of 40 persons will be implemented next year. The Government will add 3 million to this item and the increase will mainly be directed towards the introduction of a new operating model for voluntary defence training, i.e. 2.8 million will be moved to Article 27.10.50. The law on voluntary national defence training is thus implemented. The committee welcomes the additions and amendments made. Despite the increase in staff, the committee draws attention to the ability of staff to cope. In particular, there have been changes in the statutory tasks — I am referring here to military intelligence legislation — and there has also been an increase in international activity. The staff has been supported by contract soldiers, who have been allocated an increase of about 2 million in recent years. The draft budget does not include this increase, but the committee adds 300,000 to the item for the recruitment of contract soldiers. As a second point of pain, the committee highlights the growing expenditure of the defence administration on buildings, on the one hand, and the suitability of buildings for users, on the other hand, and possible indoor air problems, on the other. In accordance with the Government Programme, the cost-effectiveness of defence administration's real estate expenditure must be improved. The committee welcomes the fact that the spending item of the Defence Forces can also be used to pay the export conditions of the Finnish defence industry and expenditure related to supporting internationalisation.The policy of granting export permits must be consistent and proactive, and we welcome the fact that the Government's decisions have not changed the previous direction of Finland's export policy, as we have been told. The Committee draws attention to the implementation of industrial cooperation in the context of large-scale procurement, and options are being sought with the domestic industry to enable domestic industry to participate as widely as possible in maintenance and maintenance. I repeat: domestic industry can participate as widely as possible in maintenance and maintenance. The Committee draws attention to the coordination of wind power and air surveillance and the acceleration of administrative procedures already in the regional planning phase through cooperation with the Defence Forces. On the other hand, wind power operators could release areas to other uses if wind power plans were not implemented. According to the Defense Department, there are thousands of such areas. Then on the subject of weapons-specific procurements. For all types of weapons, the capacity will be developed equally during the spending limits period. This decade has invested in the military, and in the coming decade the main focus will naturally be on ship and HX procurement. Article 779 million is available, including a new mandate of 54 million subscriptions. In addition, there is a new article in the section on HX procurement, i.e. 27 October. Thus, the transparency of fighter acquisitions from the budgetary point of view remains. 10 million will be spent on preparing the procurement for next year. The Committee draws attention to the financial intelligence of procurement, taking into account maintenance and maintenance costs. Finally, I would like to highlight the impact of the JTS savings. In the Defence Administration, the cut share in 2020 is 4.8 million, rising to 19.2 million in the spending limits period. The committee points out that, as in many other administrative sectors, there are no new measures in the field of defence to increase productivity. Finally, the committee welcomes the addition of 34 million more to the administrative sector as a whole than in the 2019 budget, while continuing to follow the lines of the 2017 Defence Report. We thank the government for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u525	Then Minister Kaikkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u526	Mr President! The most important task of our forces is to be responsible for defending the country. The prerequisites for a credible defence capability are the high will to defend the country, the knowledgeable and extensive reserve, and the up-to-date, well-functioning equipment, but not just the will to survive, but also the money. This has been understood both in the Government Programme and in the preparation of next year's budget. I appreciate the fact that the opposition also seems to have an understanding of this. I would also like to thank the committee for its good work and good comments. Our government strengthens Finland's defence by making decisions whose impact extends far into the future. Next year's budget will be one of these solutions. This decade has not been the easiest for the Defence Forces since the cuts in the Katainen government. The operations were targeted at both reservist training, training and flight and vessel operations. Material projects were cut or transferred to the future. The cutter also hit the garrison for off-road days. These contractions have now been corrected in recent years
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u527	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u528	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u529	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u530	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u531	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u532	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u533	Now, in the general debate, we move to the debatable phase, which is about half an hour, 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u534	Mr President! On behalf of the committee, I would like to say briefly, first of all, to the views of the Minister, that there is no government and opposition in foreign and security policy in Finland. All resources must be directed towards finding a common national view on these issues. And then to the list that I see in this perspective in the defence administration as such. The first problem is the situation of contract soldiers. The military personnel are currently overloaded. That is why this question is sensitive; it is important from many perspectives. The other is the side of real estate expenditure. It requires a critical look at cost-effectiveness from a wink. The third is the expenditure item, which is challenging for many reasons and also calls for particular attention on the political side. And the last point is security of supply, its administrative organisation so that the Finnish security policy, defence policy, is at the heart of it, and not just an industrial policy issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u535	Mr President! The draft budget will bring some relief to the Defence Forces’ personnel situation by adding more than 40 new posts to the Defence Forces. This is, of course, the right direction, but the speed is quite inadequate. The message from the personnel is clear. For example, 43 percent of the officers have said that they feel tired at work. According to the Ministry’s own estimate, the need for personnel would be around 600 people. This is something I would have expected more forceful intervention. The Christmas gift money helped to hire contract soldiers for EUR 300,000, although the Finns of Peru would have retained the total amount of EUR 2 million for contract soldiers. This is an important recruitment channel for the Defence Forces, and I expect the government to be able to invest more in this in the future. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how the government intends to ensure that in the future: The Defence Forces have a lot of skilled personnel?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u536	Mr President! Mr Kaikonen and also the chairman of the committee, Mr Kanerva, both stressed the consensus-seeking nature of defence policy, and Mr Kanerva was also very clear about the role of the chairman of the committee here, which is why we have now been quoted and noted. Therefore, when this defence policy is consensus-based, this list of amendments is also one of the smallest in these sections, indicating that there is a great deal of consensus. However, there is one striking point here, and it is a motion made by the people of Finland that Finland should break that commitment to the Ottawa Treaty, which was concluded in 1997 — it also received the Nobel Peace Prize, and 156 countries have signed it. After all, Finland was the last EU country to ratify it, i.e. all EU countries are involved. That agreement was reached at the heart of the fact that the human victims are the greatest, and the civilian victims are the greatest, and secondly because of this, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u537	Thank you, Mr President. Just as the chairman of the committee said, it is a matter of common concern for the country, and I must say, as a member of the committee, that this direction, which we now have, as we are investing in, we are making more money for the soldiers, we are acquiring the necessary ships and fighters for the Defence Forces, we are increasing the number of refresher exercises, this is absolutely patriotic activity, and I can be very proud that such a plan can be implemented in this Chamber, and thank the Minister for that. Our country's defence is based on universal military service, and it has shown that, unfortunately, more and more people are deciding either not to perform military service or to choose civil service, which is important in itself, but civil service alone does not defend this country. I would like to ask the Minister: what plans is there for this military service to which the defence of this country rests and to which it must lean?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u538	Mr President! My question concerns the development of military service. The Government Programme has stated that the development of the system will be examined in a more equal direction. The Finnish will to defend the country has traditionally been at a very high level, but studies among young people have shown that this unequal obligation, which concerns only young men, is felt to be foreign among young people. On the other hand, young people are interested in security and defence. In October, for example, at the active days of the Federation of Youth Councils, Kouvola had the theme of overall safety throughout the weekend. I was invited to participate in the program of those active days, and we had a discussion with young people about Finnish defence. Young people considered it very good that the equality of the system should be examined. It is also a matter of changing the security environment, of a slightly more diverse security threat and of increasing knowledge of these issues for the whole age group from the point of view of national defence. I would now like to ask what is the timetable for setting up this task force to prepare for the development of military service. In my opinion, it had to be set.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u539	Mr President! For this HX project, the acquisition of HX, which will be a cost of tens of billions of dollars in the coming years for central government finances: the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, in its own opinion, stated this fact: Defence Forces performance projects are a very important single factor in the medium and long term behind Finland’s general government deficit and government debt growth. I wonder how the right-wing parties, when they are otherwise concerned about the state economy, drive these billion-dollar acquisitions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u540	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u541	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u542	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u543	Defence has been handled well and in a long-term way, thanks also to Minister of Defence Kaikkonen. The increase in the number of refresher exercises is one of the great aspects of this budget, as is the fleet 2020, which is now moving forward, and the HX project. International cooperation, NATO cooperation, Finland-Sweden cooperation and the new host countries agreements you mentioned last week are also good things. A slight defect in beauty is the matter of contract soldiers, and I hope that we will find a solution to keep that number of trainers as they are in the future. Then these inner-air problems in the barracks: we should take them together in Parliament even more seriously. I could point out — I received a small demonstration of this kind of Finnish innovation in Pilaster, which has been able to solve these quite cost-effectively. I would also encourage the Defence Administration to see if this could provide a solution to these indoor air problems, including in barracks.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u544	Mr President! However, young people’s enthusiasm for serving as conscripts is relatively high, but the question of financial survival continues to arise. The daily allowance for military service is EUR 5 10 cents when the military service is started. It's a long way from that traditional cigarette shop. In the old days, it was compared with the price of cigarettes. Now I don't compare, I don't want to motivate the garrison to smoke, but the price ratio should be raised anyway. Would it be possible to take measures to increase the daily allowance slightly? Secondly, I would like to remind the Minister that the virtual training unit is one of the most important players in the army of the future and partly operates in Parola too, in the slightly moldy premises, at least those conscripts. Could those licenses from somewhere inside the budget be slightly updated to be at least on the same level as us normal computer users? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u545	Mr President! During the spending limits period, significant decisions will be taken on the purchase of equipment, and I understand, of course, that such large purchases will always give rise to a lot of debate. In essence, however, it is a question of whether we want to keep our defences operational, and now we have decided that we want to do so. Special thanks for taking the fleet 2020 project forward, which is where this budget is now taking part. The acquisition of four state-of-the-art ships is, of course, important for defence policy, but also for foreign trade. RMC, Rauma Shipyard, has actually become a significant player now, and I would like to thank the State for its confidence in a Finnish, domestic operator and also for its own procurements to promote Finnish work and employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u546	Representative Savola and then Minister for 2 minutes. Then let's go to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u547	Mr President! Mr Könttä well impaled the centre line on the importance of holding to these basic princes: general military duty, reserve, purchase of equipment, all in all this own security, self-defence. This is a key issue. That's good. We do put a lot of money into defense, don't we? Our share of GDP will be 2% in this parliamentary term, in 21 C.E., when this HX project is progressing, so on international standards we will be a very strong security factor, and we will also receive a great deal of international praise for this. Minister, you visited the United States last week and had discussions with the Swedish Minister for Defence and the US Minister for Defence. They are the two most important international partners we have in this defence cooperation. How do you see this development — this development with Sweden, with the United States, the bilateral connection and also this trilateral cooperation?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u548	Mr President! The representative, Mr Kanerva, drew attention to the costs and security of supply of the property. Both are absolutely important issues and are currently on the desk; these are things that move forward. Mr Ronkainen, we have been talking about this in the defence administration. These additional people will help it a little bit, but there is more that is needed, it will not solve this issue yet, and, for example, in the context of the defence statement, I hope that this issue will also be considered in the form of solutions. Representative Kiljunen is not planning or preparing to leave Ottawa. After all, in time the Defence Administration received the money to replace anti-personnel mines. They have been received and compensation investments have also been made. Representative Holopainen, this military service — and representatives Könttä and Savola drew attention to this. A parliamentary committee is now really in place to deal with this development of military service. It was meant to start at the beginning of next year, but because of the change of government there will be a slight delay here and it will now be set up in January or February, and it may require about a year and a half of working time. So the project is progressing, but the delay of a few weeks is at least coming. Equality will also be considered in this context. Mr Yrttiaho, the HX project is, it is true, a valuable investment. However, I would not consider it a waste investment. Many other countries also make investments, and various kinds of fighters are being developed. Yes, they will be useful in the future. As a comfort, I can say that not every year, not every parliamentary term, not even every decade, need to make investments of this size, but will then be able to do so for decades to come. Representative Heinonen and many others drew attention to the question of contract soldiers. That is important, and I thank Parliament for having a little extra effort. They are useful, and hopefully we will continue to have more investment in this. Representative Slunga-Poutsalo, garrison per diems, can be increased — there will be a small increase, an index increase, from the beginning of next year, not significant, but has been taken into account. Representative Salonen thanked the fleet 2020 project. It's being pushed forward. It is good that decisions were made. The President gave us two minutes, it has been spent. If I may have more time, I will return to Mr Savola's question on cooperation between Sweden and the USA.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u549	Mr President! I agree with the chairman of the Committee on Defence, Mr Kanerva, that there is no government and no opposition in this defence policy. During the previous period, during Prime Minister Sipilä's term, the Parliament, through Government proposals, strengthened the legislation of Finnish defence policy by speeding up the invitation to rehearsing exercises and so on. By this Prime Minister Rinte and the government of Prime Minister Marin, the focus has now been on staff. In addition to the fact that we already have more than 20,000 refresher days — and they are to be continued during this government’s term — we have added more than EUR 5.5 million to the staff and mission appropriations. And we are also trying to increase this level of refresher training even after 20 and, in the same context, to increase the number of staff, more than 42 new posts, and so on. However, Minister of Defence, in addition to the contractual soldiers — or perhaps in part rather — should we focus even more and more strongly on the recruitment of staff, trained professional soldiers, to the tasks of the Defence Forces? I have already criticised it a little since last season,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u550	Mr President! Mr Kiljunen raised the Ottawa Treaty and feared that there would be a return to the previous level, but I would now like to remind Mr Kiljunen that geography must always be taken into account. That is certainly the reason why Finland was among the last to ratify it. But my real question is about EU defence and NATO. The French President, Mr Macro, criticised NATO quite harshly about a month ago, among other things, because NATO was brain-dead, pointing out that there was no coordination between NATO allies and that the United States was no longer committed to the defence of individual European countries. In this way, he called strongly for the development of European defence. Now that you have recently visited the United States, Minister Kaikkonen, what is your understanding of how committed the United States and NATO are to the defence of Europe?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u551	Mr President! In the course of this autumn, the Christian Democrats have asked the Minister for Defence whether there is any possibility of returning the military release money. It might be one way of helping those who are resettled from that military service financially, because there are some who will then be transferred to the municipal income support. In that sense, this return could not be a major financial contribution, but one chance to help these young people and also to tell them how important it is for society to carry out the military service and how appreciated it is. The increase in pension would be different, that is, that during the military service the accumulation of pensions would be the same as during the studies today. With regard to this report, I would like to highlight this important point, which relates to this expenditure on buildings and whether the defence administration has looked at these constantly rising expenditure on buildings with Senate buildings and, on the other hand, the fact that:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u552	Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister about the situation in the EU's proposed ban on lead. Is there any point to it? It will also affect the defence of the country in terms of the cost of ammunition if the ammunition increases and the voluntary defence of the country will pay for its own ammunition in the future. Another question with regard to Fleet 2020: Do the government have the means to target the work of a so-called Finnish jumpsuit man instead of being on a job? One more in relation to Ottawa: What is the status of the replacement jump bet? Is it still late? I agree that we could break away from Ottawa.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u553	Mr President! Taking care of cyber security is a constant step ahead of us, and we cannot lull ourselves into cotton wool about it. Our cyber security and its up-to-date security have been a matter of concern all the way to the Defence Forces. It is important that Finland’s cybersecurity strategy has been updated and the development programme is being developed. Earlier today, during the discussion of the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, thanks were given to the additions to be made next year in order to promote cybersecurity, and they are indeed necessary. We must continue to ensure that funding is adequate, and we cannot compromise on this. I would like to ask the Minister for Defence: how will the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces respond to this challenge?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u554	Mr President! Mr Kauma is certainly right that geography and the related defence strategy were a key reason why the ratification process and the accession of Ottawa to the Treaty were delayed in Finland compared to other countries in the European Union, for example, but of course the same applies to all international multilateral disarmament agreements, whether chemical weapons, bio-weapons, cluster bombs or other weapons of mass destruction-type systems, if there is an international effort to restrict or prohibit their use — for some countries they are critical weapon systems in relation to the defence strategy adopted by them. The fundamental idea in this respect is that if, however, the multilateral world is trusted and we go together and there is talk of disarmament, then when it happens to our own defence, there will be some compromise on the armaments security approach in the spirit of its multilateral cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u555	Mr President! A country such as Finland can really only afford the best, and that is why it is important that, when we make purchases, we get the best we can, so that those who put their own lives to the defence of this country can be confident that they have the best technology and also the best possible security. I would like to ask you, Minister, about the degree of domesticity in procurement: We sometimes have the opportunity to favour Finnish work, so to speak, Finnish competence, but we have noticed, for example, that sometimes the domesticity rate is not the best, if compared to France, where the domesticity rate is higher when purchases are made to the military or the military. Is there anything else we can do to improve this? In other words, when it is possible to find technology and know-how, we would favour even more Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u556	Mr President! In fact, I shall continue quite well with Mr Könttä. Of course, the defence industry is also a security of supply issue, and its exports are one way of supporting our defence industry and, in a way, the security of supply of the whole system, and that is important from that point of view. Then, of course, it also weighs on who is being exported to in the world. It solves quite a lot of the direction the world goes, that is, if weapons end up in an authoritarian state or in an unstable area, it is usually a bad thing. In this context, it would be particularly nice if the Finnish defence industry were to be more prominent in Europe, and I would like to ask: what possible steps are being taken to improve the position of the Finnish defence industry in Europe and perhaps to strengthen European defence industry and armaments cooperation in general?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u557	Mr President! In fact, Mr Kiljunen raised the Ottawa agreement. Finland's commitment to an agreement banning anti-personnel mines in Ottawa was a major mistake. Finland is a large country with a small population, not part of military alliances, for which anti-personnel mines were an important and cost-effective defence weapon — note. It's a defense weapon. In addition to banning mines, the government should be extremely critical of the EU's proposed bans on lead shotguns and ammunition. Mrs Huru has already mentioned this. Reservists are the backbone of Finland's national defence, and the ban on lead ammunition projects would significantly complicate the practice of the reserve. Finland has a defence solution different from the rest of Europe based on general military duty. Maintaining the art of shooting is heavily dependent on self-reliance, and the ban on lead ammunition would undermine our national defence capabilities. How, Minister, do you react to the EU's plan to ban lead ammunition?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u558	Mr President! This very united desire to defend security is an example of the fact that during the last parliamentary term we have passed the intelligence laws. It also required a change to the Constitution. I ask the Minister: from your point of view, are the resources available for the defence administration in this regard? At the same time, I believe that cooperation with the new committee, the Committee on Intelligence, will intensify further. Now to these interior questions: Today we have tabled a written question on indoor problems. Too many people have to interrupt the service, and it's a very bad thing, a big shock. It has been said in the Government Programme that a subsidiary establishment is set up on Senate properties, but it has a greater focus on the economic side. Do you believe that this organisational change will also bring solutions and development to the indoor air problem?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u559	Mr President! National unity and cooperation are the cornerstones of national defence, which we should all safeguard here in Parliament. The law on voluntary national defence will change on 1 January 1920. The purpose of the amendment is to clarify the division of duties between the Defence Forces and voluntary national defence work. The Defence Forces will no longer order military training from the National Defence Training Association. On the other hand, training for military capabilities is defined in more detail. It will be developed and the rise in education will be emphasised. There will also be increases in the appropriations. This year a questionnaire was conducted for voluntary trainers and operators. According to it, they are committed to action and feel that it is meaningful. However, the legislative reform that has been carried out raises many questions as to what the transfer of military training to the Defence Forces means.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u560	I will give you the answers to the representatives of Laukkanen, Savola and Laiho. Since then, every person who asked for a reply has received at least one question, then the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u561	Mr President! As we all know, Finland's arms mechanisms are highly NATO-compatible at the moment, and many of our defences and so on are very NATO-oriented. We have a NATO partnership that guarantees NATO a very wide range of opportunities in various situations to bring its troops and command centres to Finnish soil. We also have other agreements with the United States. I would have asked the Minister for Defence that at this time, while Russia is quite closely arming our border regions, including last summer one island for certain purposes, is it to be expected that we could have such an open NATO debate in Parliament, consider where we are actually going with this NATO cooperation, whether we are going to be members of NATO or whether we should go or not. I would now like to see a more detailed debate of this kind.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u562	Mr President! There is a lot of good in the EU, but the EU does not fully understand the Finnish defence solution. This is evident in a few things. Last season, there was a very violent twist on the Arms Directive. It was translated into how semi-automatic weapons can be used and how our voluntary defence work, and this information had to be exported to the EU very strongly. Last season there was also a law on firing ranges and related environmental factors, and now again this issue of the ban on lead shotguns is weighing on the Finnish voluntary defence of the country. Here again, we need very strong uniform lobbying towards the EU tables, because we have good shooting ranges, we have voluntary national defence that needs these lead hoods, so we have to prevent this from becoming a practice here. It is a very serious matter not only for the reservists but also for the hunters, if this were to happen,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u563	And also representatives of Laiho, Myllykoski and Kanerva. Then the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u564	Mr President! The refresher exercises maintain the performance of the wartime troops and the national defence skills of the reservists, and it is great that the reservist exercises, refresher exercises, are increased. However, the appropriations allocated to the salaries of soldiers are insufficient, which in turn increases the burden on staff and may not be fully implemented. Similarly, indoor air problems burden staff, including conscripts, as has already been pointed out here in the speech. But my question is about women's military service. There has been talk in the past that women's military service is being developed, but at least now there is no budget for it. What is planned for the development of women’s military service and the initiation of any invitations? Any plans for that?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u565	Mr President! Congressman Ronkainen, I can't tell you how far a neighbor would come down the woods if it were to come from there. Of course, a useful defence weapon is also a foot mine, but I would not go on building it now — perhaps there are more ways to wage war at the moment. But I would have asked the Minister when the debate on the reform of the Defence Forces took place: could we possibly change one name and bring more things under one umbrella — that we would have a general defence duty? We have people who, for some reason, do not want to seize the weapon, but I believe that they would have something to offer in a cyber environment or security of supply, such as extreme weather phenomena. If only we had more of it. By this I also mean that those students who are interested in a particular field,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u566	Mr President! The map of concerns among the citizens we have, and even within the framework of our civilisation, is exceptionally diverse today. That is why Finland's basic response is of course a comprehensive concept of security, from which we are identified, and it is important to develop it, but also to ensure its administrative basis and to promote its political acceptability is exceptionally important in this survey. Mr Defence Minister, I ask you: is your thoughts not only about the current Security Committee but also about the possibility of a Security Council for political representation in the country, the kind of solutions which are known a little more generally about the whole country's defence tipping-off around the world? I'm asking if there's anything to think about in that concept.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u567	Secretary Kaikkonen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u568	Mr President! He failed to respond to Mr Savola's cooperation with Finland, Sweden and the United States. Cooperation with Sweden is close and will continue to intensify. I presented these ideas a little last weekend to the committees, which was presented at the end of last week. The USA is also a significant partner, and it is good that we have this triangular basis for cooperation. We had good, constructive discussions last week in Washington. On the basis of these discussions, I will answer Mr Kauman's question: it turns out that the United States is still committed to both NATO and Europe and that the presence continues. On the basis of the discussions in the United States, that NATO summit in London in December was perhaps better than expected or feared in advance. Representative Kari: Hiring trained staff is the right thing to do. There's a need. In fact, the number of new posts coming next year will be 48 instead of 42. Representative Essayah: Repayment of the demobilisation of military personnel and the question of pensions — both sound ideas, but are more STM matters than PLM’s. And real estate costs: The defence property project is progressing. It was at a rather difficult angle in early autumn, but it has now been put on good tracks. At the moment it seems to serve the purposes of the defence regime. It can also be an instrument for these indoor air problems, which must be taken seriously, and it must be an instrument for the rise in real estate costs. These are both important questions. Several representatives asked about the ban on lead in the EU. It's important. It requires Finnish advocacy, requires our lobbying. I hope they find a common front. With this information, the issue of lead does not per se apply to the Defence Forces; it has already been blocked, as far as I am aware, but voluntary defence is still in an open space, so let us continue. Especially in shooting training, it is important that we continue to use lead charges. The jumping bet project is moving forward. It's taking its time. Representative Pelkonen: Cyber defence invests heavily in both human and other resources. Representative to Könttä on the domestic level of procurement: It is the focus, but of course this is always a balance between quality and price, domesticity and security of supply. There are also investments abroad, but constant attention will be paid to this issue. It is also an important part of our security of supply that we have a domestic defence industry. That is why it is important that we also have exports abroad. It is always estimated that it is ethically sustainable. There is a fund coming at EU level to invest in defence research projects. Representative to Kiuru on intelligence law resources: This is enough information, but it will be monitored. Time will tell. Representative Sankelo: The transformation of voluntary national defence work is ahead. The law will come into force from the beginning of next year. I hope that everyone will support it so that this big reform can be carried through as well as possible. One objective has just been to ensure quality education. Representative Laukkanen: Can we have a NATO debate in Parliament? We can discuss whatever Parliament wants here, that's fine. At least that report debate, which is about to take place, is a good place to go over these questions as well. Representative Laiho: These questions of women’s military service, including the possibility of an invitation, will be discussed in that committee work, which will also begin at the beginning of next year. I think it's good to go over it. Representative Myllykoski: The general defence obligation is in fact already laid down in the Constitution. Other thought may take place in the work of the Military Committee. Mr Kanerva's question as to whether there would be an idea in such a Security Council idea: perhaps there could be. It may take a little bit more chewing, but that's a good question. Mr President! It would have taken more time, but I guess this has to go. Thank you very much for the very good questions and the good attitude towards our common interests.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u569	The debate and the debate will be suspended, but it will continue later in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u570	The general debate on Section 27, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u571	Mr President! The workload of the Defence Forces staff has increased over the years, inter alia because the same staff is responsible for training both conscripts and reservists. Therefore, for 2018 and 2019, the Sipilä Government increased EUR 2 million to recruit contract soldiers in order to secure an adequate number of trainers. However, the line between slopes and Marin is to cut this appropriation, and I wonder how the people in the centre can accept this line, and whether it would be possible for the Centre to include the draft budget in the budget on this subject. This proposal also includes a small additional increase in the appropriations for refresher exercises. The government's proposal to increase the number of refresher exercises is welcome, but with additional effort, we would speed up driving up the number of refresher exercises. Mr President! Threat scenarios in the international environment have increased and therefore these additional investments are at stake in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u572	Mr President! Finland’s energy production is undergoing major change, and wind power in particular is one of the fastest growing forms of energy production. It is estimated that wind power companies operating in Finland are willing to invest up to EUR 4 billion in new wind power. Wind power is a very cost-effective way of producing electricity. Currently, almost all wind farms are located in Western Finland. This is not explained by the superior wind conditions of Western Finland, but is explained by the negative decisions of the Defence Forces. The wind farm project can only proceed if it receives a favourable opinion from the Defence Forces. The wind power plants have a tailing effect for the researchers, which shortens the range of the survey and creates a blind spot. In addition, the challenge is a flash effect that interferes with the ability of the paint to detect and causes errors. However, from the point of view of regional equality, the current situation is extremely problematic. In addition to low-cost electricity generation, Eastern and South-East Finland loses the benefits of construction and real estate tax revenue. However, it is Eastern and South-Eastern Finland that urgently needs support for their economy in the form of new tax revenues and jobs. For the Finnish electricity network, it would make sense to invest wind turbines in different parts of Finland, especially when Eastern and South-East Finland would be excellent for wind power production. The areas are also sufficiently sparsely populated, so the resistance to wind power from the residents would be smaller than in Western Finland. In other parts of the world, effective technical solutions have been found for the removal of radar interference, but Finland is seriously lagging behind. It is now important to find ways to tackle this problem of preventing the development of wind power. The government is making a report on this and I hope that this report will be completed quickly and that action will also be taken as quickly as possible on this basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u573	Mr President! Wind power is in itself something to be welcomed, but based on what I have, it creates enough interference in our air defence that, especially in the south-east of Finland, the construction of more wind power endangers national security. Therefore, I strongly believe that wind power construction in those areas in south-east Finland, where the Air Force and the Defence Forces have been critical, should be treated with caution and, as a general rule, not to build these wind turbines. But the well-being of the Defence Forces personnel and especially the condition of the facilities is also a very important issue for the security of our country. There are many facilities both for the Defence Forces and, in fact, for the Border Guard and the police, who are in bad shape because there are mold problems and so on. The premises are controlled by Senate properties, which charge a relatively large rent for these premises, but the premises are not necessarily in an appropriate condition. In fact, in particular the Defence Forces, but also the Border Guard and the police, a significant share and an ever-increasing share of spending goes to the farm costs of Senate property. The Government has launched a study to change the organisation of Senate real estate in such a way that the defence and security buildings would be managed in another way, so that the cost burden would not be so great. The reference is that this new mechanism for managing these buildings would, however, operate under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. However, as far as I am concerned, it would be best for the buildings of the defence and security sector to be managed in these sub-stance ministries, i.e., all the buildings available to the Defence Forces and their management and management would be transferred to the Ministry of Defence. This would ensure sufficient skills and skills to maintain and develop the use of buildings. At the same time, it might be possible to keep rents under control and even reduce the rent burden of the Defence Forces, which is, in a word, a great and ever-increasing one. I hope that the government will take this into account when taking this issue forward, so that the maintenance and management of defence properties will be carried out in an appropriate way so that substance skills are better taken into account and costs are reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u574	Mr President! I would add to Mr Kopra's speech that I fully agree that it is important to ensure effective air surveillance, but it seems strongly that, in part, this problem, the problem of radar caused by wind power, can indeed be solved by various technical means, possibly with additional sensors or other solutions. It would be very important to know what the price would be for these other solutions so that we could then find out whether these problems can be resolved cost-effectively or not. At the moment the work is being carried out, and it is important that it is being carried out in depth, particularly from this point of view of regional equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u575	Mr President! The representative, Kopra, drew attention to the most important issue here when he brought up the service properties of people under military service here. It is worrying to think that even today, conscripts are still gathering each week in the buildings in Sodankylä where I was already in service a decade ago. I already saw at the time that these facilities are not in proper condition. It is astonishing how many feedback I have already received from young men under the service during my short parliamentary career, who have had to interrupt their service because indoor air problems have taken the lead. This is very sad because these young men have been extremely motivated to serve for the country, and the health reasons have come along this path, however, because of the indoor air. I would like to see a rapid change in this. At the first reading of the budget, I asked the Minister for Defence, Mr Kaikkonen, what he was going to do about this serious problem, and at that time the Minister knew that means were being sought. It would now be interesting to know that either of these things would have gradually started to be found during the Christmas season.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u576	Mr President! In today's debate, I suggested whether the terminology could be used differently. Although we have this term ‘obligatory’ in the field of national defence,the ‘obligation to defend the country’ is more similar to the term ‘terminal’. Perhaps that would be the right solution for all of us who are even conscientious objectors to be subject to the obligation of national defence, so that their expertise in cyber attacks or climate change-related weather events would be more accessible and thus also serve both national defence and their own career development and education. But I did not speak for this reason, but for the very reason that Mr Kopra told me the curse word, which is the Senate property. We're in some kind of weird pattern that we're always here to slander it, but why can't we do anything about it? Why do we have an instrument that generates money for the services of our society, that there is income there, and then we are always here, that why we have such high costs, and then on the other hand we have staff who are ready for military service in those bad circumstances and who may have to... If I provoke a little, there'll be more people dropping out because of mold problems than there is because of Cooper's test. These are things that we should really look at now, while here again there is something that is not party boundaries. This is not a question of NATO cooperation or of cooperation with Sweden; it is really a question of our young people's service, of our being able to carry out their own military service under good conditions, and that is something that we must support together. And I have to say, thank you, Congressman Kopra, for letting me break out of this curse word for Senate properties.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u577	All right, let's keep swearing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u578	Mr President! I welcome this speech by Mrs Myllykoski. Even though you used a little different translation of words than I did, I understand that we are on the same side of the issue and that we are on the same side. All these shortcomings or problems you mentioned are serious and need to be put in place through joint action in such a way that the service environment for garrison and staff will be safer in the future. We have serious deficiencies in our garrison on this issue. That sometimes means swearing that we have this management model for these properties something strange and that the situation does not seem to be right, no matter how much we demand it here in Parliament. The representative Heikkinen raised an excellent point, talking about contract soldiers. After all, there has been a budget of a few million to date to recruit contract soldiers. They are young persons who have completed their military service, who remain in the Defence Forces for a limited period of time and are involved in military training and learn little of the basics of the profession there, while at the same time facilitating the workload of permanent staff. At the same time, this contract military procedure is an excellent way to get to know the military profession and, for many, it will certainly encourage further studies in the military field. This will also allow the Defence Forces to get very new staff to work. Now this appropriation was removed from the draft budget by the government. A little of it was returned to the Committee on Finance, but we believe that this should be raised more seriously and taken more seriously and properly into account in the budget. We have therefore proposed in our alternative budget that at least EUR 2 million should be budgeted every year for the maintenance of the contract military system in order to make this important aid available to the garrison for training tasks.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u579	Mr President! If you will allow me, I will draw attention to this reflection by Mrs Myllykoski on why we do not really get to this unfortunate situation between Senate properties and the Defence Forces. I personally am self-absorbed by the fact that, in politics these days, there seems to be things that we are all very much in agreement with here, that do not really move forward, then nothing, but those things that are as contentious as possible go through even small differences. And here's the subject of the conscripts' indoor air problems, that if the minister I see no reason why the opposition here could not give all the support to the search for these means, if that is what you are willing to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u580	Mr President! A quick comment on this contract war glass. My daughter is just a contract soldier and, as Mr Kopra said, it is a good way to see whether or not it is the right thing to do and to give a good chance. The second is where I quickly commented and what I missed during the day is this Ottawa mine agreement, and I must say that I myself have 15 months. In Africa, having cleared mines, I believe that Finland should withdraw from the Ottawa agreement. I do see — too bad Mr Kiljunen is not here — that it is a defence weapon for a poor and small country and a very effective one. When the great power tries to come, it will freeze in the minefield, and I claim that when a Finnish soldier makes a mine and a map of it, it will be easier to clear than what we cleared in Africa, where there were no mines maps. So I believe that we will do it more responsibly if war can ever be responsible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u581	Mr President! Thank you for keeping the debate going so that I can still make it to this debate. Mr President! The will to defend our country is the essence of our defense. It will remain when people feel that Finland is just and worthy of being defended. We will continue to need our own credible defence capability based on the defence of the whole of Finland, the general military service and the trained reserve. The operating conditions of voluntary national defence must be safeguarded throughout Finland. The military's strategic capabilities must be ensured. The Hornets' performance will be fully replaced. Fleet 2020 will be built in Rauma, which will strengthen Finnish shipbuilding expertise, employment and the maritime industry. Finland is a non-military country that cooperates pragmatically with partners as possible. Finland has a networked defence system consisting of strong, credible defence capabilities and extensive international cooperation, including close cooperation with Sweden, Nordic defence cooperation, deepening EU defence cooperation, bilateral defence agreements, Finland—Sweden—United States Cooperation Agreement on Defence Cooperation, Joint Expeditionary Force cooperation led by Great Britain, FNC framework cooperation led by Germany and European intervention initiative cooperation led by France Finland’s security environment has changed from bad to worse, and it is estimated that the change will be long-term. The military strategic importance of the Baltic Sea region has increased and military activity in the region is active. The importance of the cyber environment and hybrid threats is increasing and their use to achieve political or military objectives cannot be excluded. Although Finland is not currently facing a military threat, strategic surprises and changes in the security environment are possible. As a result of this development, Finland has improved situational awareness and preparedness. The European Union will strengthen its defence dimension through a number of initiatives and prepare for the fight against large-scale threats. The Union’s defence cooperation will be intensified through, inter alia, permanent structured cooperation. As a member of the EU, Finland cannot be an outsider if security is threatened in its neighbourhood or elsewhere in Europe. The ability to prevent defence is based on the capacity and ability to fight in relation to the operating environment. Finland is preparing to combat military threats by maintaining a modern-day defence solution based on high-performance weapons systems and a large pool of resources, and by preparing to provide and receive international assistance. Defence capabilities consist of the military capabilities of the defence system, national cooperation between authorities and international defence cooperation. During the Government term, bilateral and regional defence cooperation with Sweden will be extended. During the Government term, transatlantic cooperation will be developed and cooperation with Norway will be increased. The Nordic Nordefco cooperation priorities are in situation picture cooperation and training and training activities. At the beginning of the term of government, a broad-based parliamentary committee will be set up to examine the development of general military service and the fulfilment of national defence obligations. The number of refresher exercises will be gradually increased during the parliamentary term. The objective is to increase the current level by 20% by the end of the Government term. The Committee on Defence has regretted that next year there will be no appropriation for the recruitment of contract soldiers. However, Parliament added EUR 300000 for Christmas money to the contract soldiers. That is good, because this was an important addition. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u582	Honorable Speaker! In this regard, Mr Huru raised the Ottawa Agreement, which was undoubtedly a mistake from the budgetary point of view as well as from the point of view of the credibility and efficiency of our defence. I dare say that, at the time, ratification of the Ottawa Convention was decided entirely for the wrong reasons. After all, anti-personnel landmines are primarily a cost-effective defence tool and are primarily intended against an enemy who invades the country by force, and I would argue that the reasons why it came to this ratification of the Ottawa Convention were not military, but rather such reasons of a kind of polishing of its own shield in Finland's current foreign policy line. It is indeed regrettable, both from an economic point of view and from the point of view of the Finnish defence, that such a foolish agreement was signed in due course, and perhaps I agree with Mrs Huru that this agreement should be abolished and returned to our Defence Forces repertoire.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u583	Presentation of the section on the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior. 45 minutes will be reserved for the general discussion at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u584	Honorable Speaker! I would now like to present the section president's contribution to the budget report on the administrative sector of the SM. There are four key elements in Section 26: police, Border Guard, Rescue and Emergency Response Centre, Migration and all of these operating expenditure. I'm going to go over these briefly with the pain points. The total budget for the administrative sector is 1528 million, which is 31 million more than in the 2019 budget. The key pain point in this highly personnel-oriented administrative sector is the savings that have been made in the past, i.e. the so-called JTS savings. This is due to the fact that the administrative sector is highly staff-oriented and therefore cuts inevitably target staff and the administrative sector will have to adapt to the decreasing spending limits during the planning period. The committee also points out that there are large-scale indoor air problems in the premises of the section and that the necessary renovations of buildings raise costs. The committee welcomes the fact that both concerns, which I mentioned earlier, have been addressed in the supplementary budget and in the supplementary proposal. However, the problems are considerable and the government must continue to pay attention to them. A total of 763 million is proposed for the operational expenditure of police action, which is 10 million more than in 2019. The draft budget includes an increase of 7.5 million to reach the level of 7500 policemen under the Government Programme. The Government proposes increases in suburban police activities, preventive activities, raising service levels in challenging areas and strengthening online police activities. The committee believes that it is essential to tackle more effectively online fraud and fraud and more serious acts, such as child abuse. One of the main sources of pain in the administrative sector is that the technical life of the equipment is running out. This applies, inter alia, to the life of ships and aircraft used for land and water control. A decision should therefore be taken for 2020 on the order authority for two surveillance aircraft and for three ships. 5 million should be allocated to the planning of procurement. As far as police equipment is concerned, the situation is similar. As part of the reform of the police administration, we were increasingly heading towards the rolling-stock office, and this increased use of equipment will naturally reduce the lifetime of the equipment. The Committee on Border Control notes that although Article 244 million is proposed for operational expenditure — 10 million more than in 2019 — the current level of activity cannot be maintained. In the case of emergency services and emergency centre operations, it is stated that increases are made in relation to both operational expenditures, such as these items, in relation to 2019. The personnel of the Emergency Response Centre have been defined as 600 person-years of work, and the autumn’s result is 585 person-years. Attention should be paid to the well-being of personnel, as the absence of emergency services is still about twice as much as the rest of the state administration. In addition, the committee wishes to draw attention to the problems of Tuve. 54 million are proposed for immigration and reception centre activities. There are an increase of 15 million, of which 10 million are for decision-making, i.e. that the processing time for these new applications will not be extended. There will be 3 million applications in 2015, which will extend 60 contracts, as well as 2 million for ict costs. There are currently around 30000 applications under examination, of which 20000 are for residence permits and around 7000 are for citizenship. The committee notes that about a hundred more people should be able to process these applications for 2020. The committee also notes that a smooth and high-quality process of authorisation and rapid decision-making by administrative courts will reduce the cost of reception. The committee adds 500000 to this item. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u585	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I would like to thank the committee for adding EUR 500000 to the article of the Finnish Immigration Service for dismantling the congestion on asylum applications. This appropriation is an important addition to the resources and measures taken by the Government to promote the dismantling of congestion in asylum applications. It makes sense not only in human and administrative terms, but also economically, because the smooth asylum process reduces reception centre expenditure. The budget for the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior is set at EUR 31.4 million more than in the actual budget for 2019. This increase is important because the administrative sector is facing challenges but also has a lot of potential in the development of internal security. The central goal of the government is to increase the number of police officers to 7500 person-years by the end of 22. This is on the government program. The 2020 budget has committed EUR 7.5 million to increase the number of police officers. The spending limits decision also allocates funds to increase the number of police officers. In addition to basic police work, additional resources will be used to strengthen preventative and suburban police activities, to combat online crime and to prepare for hybrid threats. Border Guard appropriations have been increased to ensure border management performance and number of border guards and to the permanent European Border and Coast Guard forces. The draft budget also includes EUR 15 million in compensation for investments in border technical control systems. As the committee points out in its report, when the technical control systems are renewed, it also relieves the pressure to increase patrols and personnel to control the land border. The amount of EUR 2.4 million has been increased to secure the operation of the Emergency Response Centre, which will ensure the development of the training of rescue and emergency services. In order to secure the number of emergency services, the total amount of funding has been increased by EUR 2.75 million for the year 20. The main single reason for the staff shortage of the Emergency Response Centre is the lack of qualified job seekers in the labour market. Funding has been allocated to the emergency school to increase the amount of training. The safety of everyday life comes not only from people's own activities but also from the fact that we have enough security authorities when the emergency is greatest. Emergency callers and rescuers, i.e. professionals of help, will also safeguard each one of us during the coming holidays. The Emergency Response Centre has invested in shift planning and supervisor training. In addition, the Emergency Response Centre Agency has already reorganized various services away from the Emergency Centre Hall in order to allow on-call personnel to focus better on their core tasks. These include hazard information, international calls, interference management and operational communications, which are managed by the Emergency Response Centre’s management centre. However, the number of emergency services is currently insufficient, and this government has committed itself in its programme to raising the number from 585 to 620. At the same time, the Erica Emergency Response Centre Information System will be developed and high absenteeism rates will be addressed by investing in well-being at work. The Ministry of the Interior has launched a report on a possible temporary amendment to the Government Decree, requiring staff on call to be required, in addition to a basic police degree, to have either a basic degree in the field of rescue or social and health care. In addition, the Emergency Rescue College will explore the possibilities for organising regional on-call courses in areas suffering from a shortage of on-call staff, taking into account the need to recruit Swedish-speaking on-callers. Of course, this does not mean compromising high-quality skills or the security of citizens, but it is precisely safeguarding them. The financial situation of the Finnish Immigration Service remains challenging. Decision-making resources will be increased and will prevent longer handling of new cases. For the processing of asylum applications accumulated during 15 and 16 years, the government has proposed a separate EUR 3 million increase for next year. In addition, in its actual draft budget, the Government allocated an increase of EUR 10 million to the Finnish Immigration Service to safeguard the decision-making resources. In the supplementary draft budget, the Government gave the Finnish Immigration Service a further EUR 2 million for the development of information systems in order to make the process as smooth as possible. Authorities and e.g. organisations have developed their preparedness for large-scale entry in recent years. The experiences of 2015 — when more than 32,000 asylum seekers arrived suddenly in Finland — have been analysed and taken into account in contingency planning, guidelines and orientation of training activities. In normal circumstances, Finland has prepared an average of between 2000 and 6000 new asylum seekers per year. If necessary, reception centre capacity can be increased and more reception centres and temporary accommodation units set up. In 20 years, efforts will be made to develop the UMA system in order to streamline licensing processes and speed up the processing of applications. Changes in the legislation must also be anticipated in advance in the development work. The government's employment objective requires a significant change in labour-related immigration. The Ministry of Employment and the Economy, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have set up a coordination group to coordinate work, enterprise, study and research on speeding up the processing of residence permits and the development of processes. The Finnish Immigration Service is actively developing working methods, and the Agency has set up a change project aimed at creating new working methods in a digitalising working environment. The Finnish Immigration Service has a multi-skiller model that enables human resources to be transferred to congested permit processes. Adequate human resources will be used to achieve smooth licensing processes and legal processing times. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u586	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for this opening speech. Immigration is the single most important burden that affects all these sectors of internal security. There's a lot of talk about Migri's traffic here in the hall. Some relief is coming, but they are still there and are seen to affect much more. Similarly, the courts, administrative courts, the Supreme Administrative Court show the burden of immigration. Similarly, in the police: the over-representation of immigrants, people with foreign background in criminal statistics is clear, especially in sexual offences. In the same way, in the prisoners, this is highlighted. The Border Guard has extra work, terrorist crime has arrived in the country and so on. I ask the Minister: does the government understand that it is not only by increasing resources that internal security can be improved, but by means of legislative changes in immigration?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u587	Mr President! After all, overall security is a very wide-ranging issue. One of the things that affects it is the number of policemen; it is not the only thing that is impressive, but it is impressive. It is wonderful that the government is playing 7500 policemen, but of course it lacks 350 of what you promised before the elections in the security pledge. But the most worrying thing is that at the end of the parliamentary term, at its worst, the number of police officers will fall to around 7100 if there is no funding for the last year. I hope, Minister, that you will see to it that the College of Police Services is fully operational throughout the entire parliamentary term, and that we will be able to reach 7850 policemen. I also hope that, on this short schedule, you will hire secretaries of inquiry, the guards who will carry out the police's duties which the police are now carrying out, so that the policemen can be brought into the right positions, to what they are trained to do. That would be important, and it would be very timely to do so if there was a desire to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u588	Mr President! Police work is at the forefront of many challenges. On an annual basis, the police have less than one million tasks, some 100,000 of which have been left unaccounted for due to a lack of resources, and response times to the alarm missions have continued to increase. The operating environment is constantly changing due to new types of crime and threats. This creates more challenges for the industry. For these reasons, the government’s decision to increase the number of police officers to 7500 person-years is the only right one for our internal security — thanks to the government. But what gives rise to concern — and it is precisely in the case of police action that there is a common concern in the Committee on Administration — is the rising costs of premises, indoor air problems and the growing need for new equipment, especially vehicles. I know that this is certainly known to the Minister, but I wanted to raise it as an important point.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u589	Mr President! One of the things that employs the process of residence permits is the re-applications, and we in the committee have also been concerned about this. The endless cycle of re-applications for asylum seekers who have received a valid negative residence permit decision must be halted. It is no one’s advantage that the same mill grinds year after year without changing the end result. One of my concerns is that these work-related residence permits are in line in the Finnish Immigration Service. As has been said many times in this Chamber, we need hands to do these things here in Finland. I am also concerned about resources: what we could do to get ahead of ourselves so that year after year the same people would not be in line. I would now like to ask the Minister: are there any reforms to this process? Of course, we have to look carefully at new issues, such as asylum seekers, but it can't be forever.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u590	Mr President! Much has been said about security in this Chamber, and the authorities under the Ministry of the Interior have a key role to play in securing it. I would also like to thank the government for increasing the number of police officers now. In its report, the Committee on Finance believes that it is important, in addition to the basic work of the police, to strengthen the preventive and suburban police activities, and that has now been put into practice. It is important for its success that police and social services, for example, cooperate closely and round-the-clock, and that effective information flow from social and health care and education authorities to the police is also important in order to make this preventive action effective. I would have asked the Minister how this preventative work can and will be further improved now that more money has been made available to it, which I think is really important.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u591	Mr President! When it comes to security as a whole, it leaves home from education, and then we go to early childhood education and education, and that sense of security is largely built up along with how well people get along there, in a way. When we go to the harder side of the police, I think that this government has well started, because it is now investing in increasing the number of policemen. We must also take into account the recruitment of the protection police and the effective use of the Civil Intelligence Act. A further EUR 10 million has been put there, which is a good thing there. But what I am, in a way, a little interested in and I would like to be informed about is the situation of the rescue services in connection with the social welfare reform when they move to the provinces. How can we ensure that an effective level remains there?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u592	Mr President! The number of migrants and asylum seekers entering the European Union through Turkey rose from 50,000 last year to 70,000, according to press reports. The number of Afghans in particular increased, which of course relates to this difficult security situation in Afghanistan. When we know that the fate of the European Union and Turkey's refugee alliance is uncertain, we must certainly also prepare for different scenarios in Finland, including that the resources of the administrative authorities of the Ministry of the Interior are sufficient. There are concerns about the resources of the police, of course the Finnish Immigration Service too, but I personally think it is important for the government to carefully assess these resource needs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u593	Mr President! In October we received the last PTR situation report, which in itself seemed worrying. It shows that crime caused by free movement and uncontrolled immigration affects Finland in many ways. I would like to ask the Minister now, mainly with a view to international crime: It is good that there is an increase in the number of police officers, but has there been plans for border control, for example in those ports, perhaps to review the resources of foreign controls? By this I mean, mainly, focused thinking about the fact that we do not have many people there at the moment, and it would certainly be appropriate to look into this issue too, too, if we were to be able to cope with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u594	Mr President! Thank you, Minister. It is very good that, for example, there has been a small increase in police funds, but just as Mr Tolvanen said, it is a difficult situation. But let's make them stick and add those amounts. We talked yesterday about anti-terrorism legislation, and if you open it up a little bit for us: What are we doing now? Have those who have been there in a way in the pipe been moved on now? That would be interesting. What about the Helsinki Rescue College? That gave him a little more time, didn't it? After all, I was in favour of the Rescue Academy and the fact that even if the headquarters were in Kuopio, the philial here, and I still support it. What have you come to? Then there is the exchange of information between healthcare staff and police: has it made any progress? And then... What is your attitude towards the situation of these undocumented citizens? Do the municipalities currently have uniform practices? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u595	After a few replies, the Minister receives interim replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u596	Mr President! The goal of this budget and government programme, too, is to have a secure rule of law and to allow each of us to feel that we live in a safe country. The aim is also to ensure the ability of the safety authorities to act. The complexity of the internal security environment and rapid changes create their own challenges in this area. We cannot call on citizens to know security or trust; they must be earned. Increasing the number of police officers is not the only way, but it is a very important part of it to improve and maintain public confidence. The Administrative Committee has also agreed in its opinion to increase the number of police officers. Thank you to the Administrative Committee and to the Minister and all those who have contributed to this. However, I would like to ask the Minister: what can we do in future to ensure that the police profession continues to be of interest and that we apply for this demanding and consuming work?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u597	Then the reply, Mrs Rantanen, and then Mr Heinonen. After that, Minister, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u598	Mr President! I would have paid attention to this budget here in the rescue department. Now it would seem that 2 million have left the rescue services of these county ict projects, but there are these Erica, Tuve and Kejo who have had to spend more money this year, and I'm sure the Minister knew that the rescue services have acquired such a common accident prevention information system, which also eats money. Furthermore, I am a little concerned that: There may not have been enough increase in the amount of training for the emergency school — given the messages that are currently coming from all over the country with regard to the problem of rescuers and their accessibility. So I would have asked if this was taken into account. I would also like to ask: are there any projects in the Ministry to increase safety at work and to make paramedics and rescuers in emergency care equivalent to civil servants in relation to violent opposition?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u599	Mr President! As Minister of Interior, Petteri Orpo raised the education levels of the Police Academy to the maximum, and that would be the way to get to the 7850 police. I would like to ask the present Minister for the Interior, Mr Ohio, what kind of path we are on now — will this be achieved during your ministerial term? Migri's budget is important. One might say that the system has failed if even one of the top experts fails to come to Finland because it is too long to get a work permit. And then the medical helicopter operation. I am not taking a position on places now, I believe that it is up to the experts to decide, but I would ask you, Minister: is the coverage in our country sufficient now for these helicopters, or are there still gaps that should be able to be filled? On the other hand, is the size of the helicopters optimal at the moment? Some experts consider at least some of the helicopters to be too large and their departures to be slow, and this in part complicates their operation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u600	Secretary Ohio, two minutes. Then, at the end of your part of the debate, you will have a longer speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u601	Mr President! Thank you for your good and important comments and comments. Many questions — I will try to summarise briefly. The latest question about medical helicopters: this is strongly related to the STM sector, which means that Minister Kiuru will be more able to answer this question. Representative Mari Rantanen: Yes, occupational safety is a clear priority. There has already been a joint opportunity with the police government on this issue, and I think that this work should also be continued in all areas of the administration of the SM, to consider the various places where safety at work can be improved. I believe that the idea you have put forward is already in the pipeline and very important. Representative Piritta Rantanen: How will police work be interested in the future? Of course, we must maintain the strong confidence that citizens have in the police constantly. Of course, foot-and-mouthing, preventive work, local police work, where the police are also visible to children and young people in everyday life, is one factor that can strengthen people’s interest in the sector as well. Congressman Risiko, good questions. Sote information between police and social services — this will be discussed and improved by experts, professionals and professionals as well as possible. In fact, solutions are being sought for the position of the undocumented. Of this, even Helsingin Sanomat wrote the other day that we should not have shadow societies where we do not know about people. From the situation of the Helsinki Rescue College: by 23 C.E., such a comprehensive examination of education will be completed as to where, everywhere in Finland, the greatest needs for salvation will be. In that training package, we will also look at its regional perspective. The education centre has a strong focus on the right to a degree and research and development in general, but if there is a regional need for Swedish-speaking rescuers or other, then we will consider it in the overall reform of education. The legislation on terrorism will return when the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior join forces to take the matter forward. Representative to Peltokangas on border control: Indeed, at the moment, the first budget has put forward additional resources for controlling the eastern border, specifically for this improvement in technical control. There has been a great deal of mention here of these concrete equipment purchases that must be made. As far as the police are concerned, so too is the case with the border. It cannot be that all resources are being poured into the premises and the ict, too, when people are supposed to be at the border. I personally think that this is a very concrete priority, where I want to put more effort. [The President knocks ] In the face of a rescue operation: We have a good representation in the STM team in terms of salvation. Of course, high-quality emergency care services will be secured without endangering other statutory tasks of salvation and the real aim will be to ensure that our voice is constantly heard throughout the whole reform that nowhere will be left out. We've been there well.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u602	Mr President! Right to the beginning: As a new representative, the fact that these applications for asylum for 2015 still appear to have been under discussion replaced. It is great that additional resources have now been made available, but how many asylum applications have been made then in 2015 if they are still being processed, and how many will be available this year, for example? Has it been possible to make a change now that we have better control of this number of candidates than in 2015 when the Finns have been in power? As far as the police are concerned, I thank you for getting us more cops. I think it is the right direction in this country, and I really hope that there will be a common vision of this in this Chamber. But I also hope that the police will be placed evenly throughout the country, not just in the capital region, and I ask the Minister: how can we guarantee that these additional police resources will also hit that less populated Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u603	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Administrative Committee for its good cooperation and for its largely unanimous opinion. In particular, these police resources have been a matter of concern to the Administrative Committee unanimously, and the government has directed more resources to the police. I would like to raise this issue of immigration, because I think it is very wise that the Administrative Committee has stated the objectives of immigration policy in such a way that it is important that our immigration policy is managed and anticipated. I would like to see Migri's appropriations being a key factor in this, and I thank the Minister for the speed with which Migri has received additional appropriations for this year as well. Secondly, I would like to raise the level of investment in integration training, and the Audit Committee has raised the importance of this integration training during the previous parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u604	Mr President! Of course, it would be hoped that the representatives of the government parties would be aware of our many crises, such as this asylum crisis, and that especially the members of the Administrative Committee would not be surprised that we really have such applications. But that's it. Yesterday, for example, there was this fake police phenomenon on television and police inspector Jyrki Aho was interviewed about this phenomenon. Similarly, there has been much talk of housebreaking. In Uusimaa, for example, a significant proportion of these are these foreign leagues from the Baltic countries. We haven't talked about such things yet, and actually I would have asked about this overall safety: When counseling people to set up different alarm systems and to be alert that older people, for example, are not being exploited by a fake police officer, how have you in the Ministry of the Interior or, together with the Ministry of Justice, wondered what we could do? This is quite significant when crimes are directed at the home and the elderly. Jyrki Aho, for example, suggested that the penalty scale of the section on the arrest of officials could be increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u605	Mr President! Additional funding for the dismantling of congestion in asylum applications and securing the decision-making resources of the Finnish Immigration Service is necessary and important in order to ensure an appropriate asylum process for everyone in line with the rule of law. These increases have also been welcomed by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, particularly while ensuring that congestion is not passed on to the administrative courts. The Director-General of the Finnish Immigration Service has said that the asylum process is being strongly developed from the point of view of justice and quality assurance, and this is absolutely essential in the light of this ruling by the Court of Human Rights at the latest. I should like to ask Minister Ohio: are these resources now available to the Finnish Immigration Service sufficient to strengthen human rights and fundamental rights in the asylum process? In addition, I would like to ask about the police budget, the increase of which is therefore also a good thing: how does the Minister assess what improvement these additional resources bring to a situation in which a large number of crimes are not being investigated today?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u606	Mr President! The Civil Intelligence Act came into force during the last parliamentary term, and a few questions related to them. Firstly, in this short period of time, has the Minister been informed of any need for changes or additional needs in relation to them? The second question: has the new legislation, according to your information, improved the picture of the situation and increased the intelligence that the government needs? Is the resources good enough? On that point, I have been informed that they would seem to be in good shape, but it is also good for the minister to look at it. Then the same observation concerning the Secretary of Defense: We have a new committee, a Committee on Intelligence, and I am sure that the cooperation of the minister with that committee will be intensified when the committee gets a good start on its work. I'm sure we'd be happy to welcome you there to discuss matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u607	Mr President! We talk a lot about the operations of the alarm centers and others. Now I would have asked the Minister: are there any measures going on so that these places of business are being reduced? We in Satakunta are very concerned that, for example, we are now looking for a leader in two places, either Kerava or Pori, this job advertisement has been open in this way. I would therefore hope that this would not be possible, because if I have understood correctly from the press, then first of all, Kerava will be suffering from a lack of staff when no one is coming there. At the same time, I would like to ask about the response times. In the case of Satakunta in particular, I am very concerned that we have very long response times. Now, this so-called overworked replacement, which will then be thought of as setting up a patrol in emergency situations, does not seem to be a good thing. So, are there any more plans for how this patching up will be done if there are no personnel in the patrol?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u608	Mr President! I would have asked the Minister about operating expenditure budgeting, which has also been raised on several occasions in committee, precisely because there has certainly not been a single operational operator for internal security in committee who has not mentioned that there will be money, but it is going somewhere else than it should go, so I am referring in particular to these unworkable electronic systems, ict costs and then to the premises and especially to indoor air problems and so on. In particular, the message from the Border Guard was quite alarming, i.e. the proposed level of operational expenditure is not sufficient to maintain the level of performance measured according to the prevailing security environment. I would have asked the Minister: how does the government feel about this time of chronic pain in the financing of internal security?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u609	Mr President! The Ministry of the Interior is a central ministry in Finland. On the basis of yesterday's debate, I feel that the Ministry has, to say the least, the role of an alarm clock in this country. I would like to thank the government for the resources earmarked for the training of emergency services, such as the additional resources provided by the Emergency College, as well as for the additional resources made available for monitoring land and water areas. Similarly, there is a critical need to increase the number of police officers, which has also been raised in this Chamber today. The number of police officers has been reduced, and it is indeed reflected in people's sense of security, especially when you go outside the city centre. Cops are urgently needed in spending limits municipalities to respond to alerts. As far as I can see, local police officers must be specifically added to the phenomenon of exclusion and to reduce the number of drunk drivers, the number of drug drivers and other traffic offences, i.e. crimes against ordinary people like this. I'm worried.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u610	Mr President! As the world changes, immigration policy is also subject to new phenomena. In this respect, I think that, when we have new mild phenomena in immigration policy, which have been addressed, among other things, by the recent press, mentioned by the Minister, we also need new measures from the government which, for example, are capable of preventing illegal residence and entry. After all, it is well written in the Government Programme to update the action programme on illegal immigration and residence. I see that this is precisely the purpose now to look at this changing society and the changing world so that we are able to ensure that we will also have a well-functioning welfare state here in Finland in the future. I would like to ask the Minister how this updating work is to be done in relation to the action programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u611	We're running out of time. I will give the floor to Mr Jokinen and Mr Juuso and then to the Minister for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u612	Mr President! Finland has the lowest number of police officers in Europe per 1 000 inhabitants. That is alarming information, and it has been so for a long time. There is also a crying shortage of emergency services. Working with scarce human resources, under pressure, it is a very burdensome activity and also then causes absenteeism and illness. When the Rinte government started, the good news was reported: 300 police officers will be added to Finland. After all, all parties made a security promise before the elections that the 7850 police officers would be reached. According to my information, there are currently some 7340 police officers in Finland. I would now like to ask the Minister: is it a government commitment to further increase 300 police officers or will it be reduced to 160 when the 7500 police officers are reached?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u613	Mr President! The use of drugs in Finland has increased exponentially. According to my estimate from Customs and the police, about half of the drugs come online and half across Finland’s land borders. The border between Finland and Sweden on land border crossings in the north is very busy and is estimated to exceed 75% of all cross-border traffic. The most effective way to address the problem would be to increase Customs' resources at the northern border against Sweden. Now they're not even on a credible level. The flow of drugs comes specifically from Sweden to Finland, and I hear that Kemi, for example, is already full of amphetamines. Do you, Minister, intend to tackle this drug problem by strengthening Customs' resources in the north at the border with Sweden?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u614	Mr President! Thank you for your good comments. On the last question: PTR cooperation — police, customs and Raja — is, in itself, within our sphere of activity, but Customs itself is not in our budget items, which means that it belongs to the Ministry of Finance. But of course that cooperation is constantly being strengthened. Reference was also made here earlier to the increase in international organised crime in Finland. It has been clearly identified for a long time, and, of course, resources will be increased to prevent and locate it and to combat it in general in the context of multi-authority cooperation. Congressman Jokinen and a few others also had a question of increasing the number of policemen. It is in concrete terms recorded in the Government Programme, by 7500 by 22, and that is what the Government will stick to. At the moment, this budget will increase the amount to about 80 additional police officers for next year. I mentioned earlier that this additional resource will be allocated, among other things, to sexual offences against children and other forms of everyday crime prevention. In other words, this will be adhered to, and I hope that any government that comes after this government will also make it its objective to constantly increase that number. Now that we can finally get up from that pit — Mr Purra very well pointed out that there has been a real shortage of resources in this area for a long time, ten years have had to be adjusted, and often just about staff. We need to get rid of this. Of course, it will require us to make these premises healthy and safe — which is also a government programme entry — ict solutions to work and support it in such a way that it also saves man-years in some places and, through this, makes people better on the field. In other words, yes, the financial problems of internal security, as such, have already been well taken into account in the Government Programme and in our work at the Ministry of Education and Culture continuously. There were concerns about the Emergency Response Centre Network. There may have been some confusion about where the director has been applied for. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, There has been a clear search for Pori, there should be no doubt about this and, as far as I am aware, there is no indication of any reduction in the network. Maybe I'll hear about it later, if there's anything like this. Representative Kiuru: It was also a question of resource development in general. — Unfortunately, I cannot make it clear now that I am writing these answers quickly. Can you quickly repeat your question? Is it possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u615	Thank you, Mr President. I did a pretty hard job on these questions. So is there a need for change in the legislation, and have the intelligence laws improved the situation picture from the point of view of the minister and the ministry? Here, at least, the most important. There were resources, too, but I think they're fine.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u616	Thank you for this, Mr Kiuru. That's right. Of course, intelligence laws are now a new element and a new tool that has come into use and is of course only being implemented in practice, but I understand that it is already possible to get a much broader and better picture of the situation and of the intelligence priorities discussed and thus. I would also like to see the new committee as soon as possible, as soon as the committee has a proper job to do. Representative to Mr Hyrkö on the improvement of human rights: Of course, the Government Programme in general assumes that there is a strong ethos for inclusion in the programme as a whole. The idea, perhaps more broadly referring to the asylum process, is that in order not to have prolonged cycles — here reference was made to re-applications and others — the focus will be put as early as possible in the asylum process there. Let us ensure that there are interpreters and the necessary legal advisers present, everyone gets a proper hearing. I hope that this will not lead to the spirals mentioned by Mr Huttunen, which then also waste resources and, for a longer time, people will also have to wait for their affairs to be dealt with. Representative Heinäluoma asked about integration training in general. It is, of course, mainly under the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. I myself am thinking of the cooperation that we are doing in this area, that the Ministry of Education and Culture, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy should work more closely together. Here, too, I am throwing the ball to Minister Hatainen: here is a place for us to work together, that integration will be better and that there will be clear quality criteria and that is perhaps the point of view of education, education and education would also be stronger there when we think about young children and young people. There are so many of these questions now that I do not know if I have time to answer everyone. [PresidentMattiVanhanen : there was a good reply and the debate will continue later in the evening. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u617	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u618	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u619	The debate and the debate will be suspended and will be resumed later in this plenary session today or in the morning.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u620	The general debate on section 26, which has been suspended in this plenary session earlier today, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u621	Mr President! Much has been said of the government's contributions to the police. Of course they must be welcomed, but I personally do not see this so positively, so we have the prospect that the current level of resources is not enough to safeguard this activity. For the time being, the police have still been quite able to respond to these challenges of their basic tasks, despite the fact that the environment has changed dramatically. In any case, the various legislative changes continue to entail additional tasks, which are not always assigned the necessary additional resources. In my previous speeches today, I have already highlighted these ict expenditures and resources at the premises, which hinder this basic activity. This continuing resource deficit, a chronic deficit, is reflected in a deterioration in the well-being of personnel. It has been seen in the avi’s inspections, and I just read a report that found that more than 90 percent of police personnel are overloaded. The readings are pretty alarming. Well, as one of the police sector, I would like to raise the issue of traffic control here. The purpose of the inspection of the police traffic control last spring was to examine the impact of the abolition of the mobile police force in 2014 on this traffic control by the police. This inspection revealed a significant reduction in police traffic control and a very marked deterioration in its control since the abolition of the mobile police. The monitoring of this whole reform of the administrative structure of the police has also been neglected, even though the Administrative Committee, among other things, strongly required that monitoring be carried out and reported on in the past. The overall weight and overall steering of road safety issues has fallen considerably in this period. This is reflected in the overall resources and appreciation of police traffic control. According to many views, the situation is critical.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u622	Honorable Speaker! Internal security, national defence and the judiciary are the basic institutions of every functioning society without which even a reduced night watchman state cannot function. The budget of the Ministry of the Interior includes a large-scale police operation. We are particularly concerned at the fact that, according to the government's budgetary plan, the number of policemen threatens to collapse due to inadequate resources between 2022 and 2023 at up to 7100 police levels, even though the government's objective is to reach 7,500 police officers. Finland has a very small number of police officers in relation to our European peer countries. Mr President! Internal security risks related to jihadist operators and other extremist movements are on the rise. On the one hand, foreign states have also been activated in their intelligence activities, even to the level of the Cold War, according to some sources. The Coalition Party is committed to securing the resources of the police. We are therefore proposing a substantial increase of EUR 55 million in our own alternative budget for the police budget in order to reach the level of 8,000 person-years for our police resources in the longer term. In addition, we have good proposals to resource the Finnish Immigration Service for EUR 8 million in order to make permit procedures for work-related immigration as smooth as possible and to support our national economy. Mr President! Finland is one of the safest countries in the world. That is what the Coalition Party wants it to keep in the future. During the last term of the government, the number of persons employed by the police was finally reversed when the coalition and the centre were in the same government. Security is not a matter of course, which is why the government needs to invest.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u623	Mr President! I have never really been as happy as I am now with so many absentees. Now I'm happy about it. However, I would like to come back to the debate that took place when Mr Ohio was here when I asked a few questions about whether there are any plans for the sites of the regional alarm centres, where and how they are going to end or not. I asked that when we were looking for a leader for the Satakunta, we were looking for it as a location for Kerava or Pori. My concern and the concern of hundreds of people has been that why in the world two places of work are being applied for a place to stay, especially since Kerava is a regional alarm centre that does not get employees now. That is why there have been good speeches here in this section: we need to develop education and arrange for people qualified for the service of society to be able to carry out their duties in these tasks. I would like to ask Mrs Huru whether we can agree on this one hundredth point, that we should also speak to this government as a joint front, that we really want to see the response times of the police to be one of the key points. There are no party political boundaries here either. We can be sure that once this reform of the police administration has been carried out to the extent that we are in Satakunta in the south-west of Finland, we will have In Satakunta, authorisation management measures have been reduced. We already have a problem: how can we succeed in the fact that if we have a police patrol in Kankaanpää taking the drunk to Pori survival station, then we will not have a chance to have it... - Excuse me, President, now I shall continue. [ The speaker moves to the podium]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u624	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u625	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u626	Mr President! You, Mrs Myllykoski, could take these resource needs forward in the government. I have to ask, why don't you? There is a lack of money for the police, a lack of money for the Border Guard, as we all know. A very special point which I would like to draw Parliament's attention to is the staff needs of the Border Guard on the south-east border. For example, in Nuijamaa, EU subsidies have built a modern border crossing station in several lanes, but due to a shortage of personnel, it is not possible to keep all crossing lanes open during peak periods. The consequence of this is that there are really long queues on the Finnish side of the border, and especially now that the holiday season begins in the eastern neighbour, the length of the queues will only increase. I know that the Border Guard staff do their best and sincerely to do their job, but when there are not enough people and can't afford to hire, it just doesn't exist. The government should allocate more resources to this. This is such a problem that this could even be financed in a targeted way, since it would pay for itself. When these Russian passengers arrive in Finland, they come here on holiday, spend money here, buy services, goods from the store. The less time they have to do this shopping and other things in Finland, the greater their share of revenue and turnover will not be realised here on the Finnish side, and therefore it is absolutely counterproductive. In other words, if border traffic were to operate smoothly on the eastern border under all circumstances, I believe that it would not cost as much as it looks, for it would then produce a large part of the expenditure back as economic growth. In this way, the government could also contribute to the appreciation of the diligent and conscientious staff of the Border Guard who are working for the people there at the moment and could do so even more effectively in the future if the resources were in better shape.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u627	And now Mr Huru will be able to respond to Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u628	Mr President! Mr Myllykoski's challenge, if you can say so, must indeed be supported, because the same thing we do in Satakunta applies to Finland as a whole. As regards the police, Satakunta has moved to Varsinais-Suomi, which reduces our response times. The deployment of the Emergency Response Centre Agency in Pori has also been a political decision at the time. If the director, let alone the site of the institution, is someone other than Pori, I understand that this is also the place of political decision, not just the text of the application notice. The rescue service as well as the police may suffer from the growing government. There the costs will increase and savings will always be sought from the station network and service level, so the Minister of the Interior would also have to explain. You also have to look after it there. The resources of the Border Guard mentioned by Mr Kopra must also be taken into account. For example, they have, not the smallest, but certainly the biggest project, the acquisition of a new outpost vessel, which would have to be considered in the coming years. In other words, the challenge can be taken up here, and it does cover the whole country and all the improvement of internal security.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u629	Mr President! I agree with Mrs Myllykoski that a good policy is being promoted by all measures to strengthen the sense of justice in society. What is essential in this debate about police numbers and response times is that if the police are able to solve more crimes, that obviously means that additional resources are also needed to deal with the courts and the judicial system of these crimes. Therefore, the courts and these institutions that maintain the legal order want to become congested in this same criminal investigation chain. That is why the coalition is based in its own alternative budget on the fact that we cannot accept the weakening of the rule of law and of the legal security of citizens and that there is therefore a major reason for the permanent increase of EUR 4.5 million in resources for the budgeting of the legal system.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u630	Mr President! I'll go back to what I said. I am not pulling it back, but mainly — Mr Kopra brought this border control as one element of this debate, so I must say that we need to make it more flexible, but we also need to make it more flexible, can we say, collective agreements so that we can see where the costs come from? This may and may not be the case at some point, but it must be asked why we have staff on the border with more expensive collective agreements when we have so-called cheaper and more knowledgeable staff elsewhere. So we Customs and Raja need to be able to look at things the way we look at them. As far as the eastern border is concerned, we must also take into account the fact that we have transit traffic which could be cleared at the border already in Pori. Why do we have to concentrate on the eastern border when we have the opportunity to do so here at the western border? Why do we accept that we have, or were, terrible long lines of trucks on that eastern border when we could and can continue to do so, for example, in Pori? We have all the resources. From a national economic point of view, we need to build this whole system and not do bridge drum policy. Then someone says, no Myllykoski here is building a particularly bridge drum policy when it wants the unit in Pori to be able to do more. We have well-established transports, which can be checked just as well by the time we arrive at our West Coast ports as well. That would enable us to facilitate that transit through the eastern border. Mr Kopra, for some reason you are here again, just as you are at the heart of the matter. We must also be able to develop this organisation and thus create more resources so that we can make the eastern border more flexible. We need customers who pay here from across the border. Let's make it as easy as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u631	Mr President! When we have this good and constructive debate with Mrs Myllykoski, Mrs Huru, Mr Heikkinen and others, it seems that if we could now resolve these matters here, they would certainly all end up in the best shape and no one would have a cause for complaint. However, with regard to this item on the security sector, namely Raja and the police, this issue of the Senate will be taken up, so that it can be recorded in the Minutes that it has been taken into account. So the problem is that the properties are in poor condition. The police in particular have to spend plenty of time in evasive areas around Finland. I know that in South-East Finland we have even been in evasive spaces before we have reached the actual new premises. I'm sure Senate properties are doing their best to build these facilities, but both for the police and for the Border Guard, the challenge seems overwhelming. The staff will have to spend far too much time in unhealthy facilities. In many cases, the premises that will then be built by the management company are not entirely appropriate and will then have to be refurbished or made special arrangements and so on. This feels funny, though. I believe that every party and actor in this equation will try their best and work sincerely to ensure that everything goes well, but we still have these problems in our hands. It is strange, though, that we are not doing anything about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-18-ps-85.u632	Mr President! We at Kempelee taught that the greatness of man is measured by how small things he intervenes in. I am pleased to find that the representative: Myllykoski is not talking about small things here, but is focusing on the big themes that affect us all, as is the case with this very time of police response that you raised. You also spoke of the policy of the bridge drum. I would like to talk about the response time for Hailuoto, because there is neither a police patrol nor a police station, but I am not talking about Hailuodo, but Keitele. We were certainly all able to read in October in the evening newspaper about this shocking attempt to stab Keitele, where the police, after receiving a call from the Emergency Response Centre, announced that they would not arrive at Keitele to investigate this attempted stabbing because the knife had not hit this potential victim. If it had been hit, the police might have arrived. This is an absolutely shocking situation from the point of view of the Keitellians, because the nearest police station is the Kuopio or Iisalme facility. A world like this, with police response times of more than 70 minutes, is absolutely scandalous. I believe, and I want to believe, that solving this issue in an urgent fashion is certainly an issue that goes beyond the government-opposition threshold.
