ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u2	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the Student Support Act. It is proposed to make the conditions for the grant of the right to study in non-public education more flexible. According to the proposal, in education other than those subject to public supervision in order to obtain the right to study aid, it would no longer be necessary for the organiser of the training to have organised that training for at least one year. The current requirement for a minimum period of one year may unduly make it difficult for new training providers who have completed less than one year to obtain a right of study allowance for the training they organise, even if it fulfils the other conditions laid down in the Student Aid Act. This condition may also become too restrictive in situations where a training organiser who has already established his/her activity begins to organise new training which he/she has not previously organised. Other key conditions for the grant of the student's right to study allowance would remain in line with the current state, i.e. the education must continue to correspond to the training required by the Vocational Education Act, which aims to complete a degree or part of the degree, and to the fact that the organiser of the education has the functional, vocational and financial capacity to organise the education. Secondly, it is necessary to remove from the section on sufficient progress in studies the requirement that the acceptable reason for the slowing down of studies should be temporary. Under the proposed provision, students would have the right to study aid even if their studies had not progressed sufficiently if they presented an acceptable reason for slowing down their studies. An acceptable reason could also be another factor that is similar to a student’s illness, such as dyslexia. The proposed amendment would make it easier for students not to discontinue student student financial aid in a situation where studies have slowed down for a longer period of time, for example because of a permanent illness found in a student or other factors that reduce the student's ability to study. This provision needs to be made more flexible, as student support should be the primary form of student support. The proposal would therefore improve the position of students who are at risk of being excluded from study aid in the event of a slowing down of studies other than temporarily. And these legislative changes would come into force on 1.8.2019. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u3	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Sipilä Government for this excellent government proposal. Although of a rather technical nature, it is still critical for its corrections to this current law. This government proposal specifies the conditions for granting the right to study aid, as the Minister has just described. In this proposal by the government, I particularly welcome the removal of the requirement that the reason for the slowing down of studies should be temporary. In future, therefore, an acceptable reason may also be another factor that is similar to a student’s illness that impairs the ability to study. For example, this can be a dyslexia found by a student, which can slow down your studies significantly. Without this change with dyslexia, a degree-specific study grant period is often insufficient to complete studies. However, on the basis of dyslexia, the student will not be able to benefit from rehabilitation or other benefits that would contribute to the completion of his or her studies. Thus, there has been a risk in the current law that people with dyslexia who have not been able to keep up with the required pace of study will be directly covered by income support if they receive any support to complete their studies at all. This is a problem that is now being corrected. For example, dyslexia should not be punished by making it harder to make a living during studies. Mr President! I also think that the reduction in functional capacity, which makes it difficult for studies to progress and work, is a greater social issue. It is a big mistake that our society has hardly identified the many factors that may lead to a reduction in the ability to study and work here in Finland. In a situation where people’s ability to function falls due, inter alia, to the challenges of coping, society should offer greater flexibility in learning or working life and see rapid intervention as an investment. We must be able to deal with this with sufficient seriousness. This will require changes in the current system beyond this one government proposal. According to a study by the Finnish Centre for Pensions in 2017, more and more people who have retired from disability are now young. From the age of 20 to 34 years, there are already more than 23,000 Finns. Every year, more than 3,000 young people from this group of 20 to 34-year-olds are disabled. At the beginning of the millennium, the corresponding figure was one third lower. I think this is important. The number of disabled persons under 20 has also increased in 15 years. The statistics of the Finnish Centre for Pensions show that four out of five people receiving disability pensions are responsible for mental health problems in the ages of 20 to 34. It can therefore be summed up that the increase in young people's disability in the 21st century is solely due to the generalisation of mental disorders. This is absolutely alarming. This development must be stopped immediately, and it will also be helped by this government proposal, which, despite its technicality, will contribute to the identification and involvement of these young people. The situation of young people should be able to be addressed when there are small indications that students need more time and support to learn. In today's state, we wait far too often. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u4	Mr President! Legislation must live in time and be updated according to interpretation practices. This Government proposal specifies the Student Support Act in line with the current application practice and proposes a whole series of small but important and necessary reforms. I welcome the fact that the reform includes the abolition of the minimum period of the year for the new organiser of education in education other than those subject to public supervision. This will enable the new or established education organiser to offer new training without a minimum period of one year for the right to study grants. There is at least a new set of coder schools, which have also been closely publicised, which could start their operations much more agilely than they are today. Mr President! In honour of this bill, it must be said that the reform will bring more flexibility. In the future, the reasons for the slowing down of studies will be interpreted more favourably for students in difficult situations. Such a difficult situation as described may be, for example, a permanent learning disability that slows down learning, such as dyslexia, or the illness of a relative. I therefore believe that this reform should reduce the unnecessary transition to income support. Mr President! However, after these amendments, the Student Support Act is certainly not ready. The student's social security system in its current form is not flexible enough if the individual does gainful work alongside the studies. So I'm talking about the income limits for student support. A student who is progressing at the agreed rate in his studies should be able to do even small-scale gainful work or small-scale business without constant fear of losing support. The current tight income limits are in vain in maintaining the poverty of already low income groups artificially and incentives in a falsely distortive way. Mr President! A good society always rewards hard work. In the future, the flexibility of the Student Support Act should be increased by at least 50 % of the income limits, just as was seen from the report of the Finnish School of Education: ‘It would be possible to leave the current income limits of study aid from the disadvantageous income effects of the current income limits to the wide difference, as few students would be able to benefit from a higher income limit. “ This reform could therefore bring a net increase of up to EUR 5.9 million per year to general government. Mr President! Thus, the development of the Student Support Act in the direction of diligence would increase the revenue of general government by just under EUR 6 million per year, while reducing artificial poverty. This would encourage young people to work more strongly and thus build up valuable work experience, getting a foot between the door and the labour market. I hope that this Parliament will now take this point of view firmly into account. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u5	Mr President! Education is the most important human capital from early childhood education through comprehensive school to higher education. The possibility of quality education, that is to say, education, is an unambiguous one for everyone. The right to lifelong study belongs to everyone. The aim of the State of Education is that everyone, regardless of their family background or place of residence, can participate in society and working life, implement themselves and contribute to the community. Civilization belongs to everyone. Therefore, the education system needs to be more effective in balancing the differences arising from the starting points of students of all ages, as well as in identifying and exploiting their different skills. Everyone must therefore be guaranteed access to education and subsistence during training. Education, education and education have brought Finland to the happiest, most progressive and prosperous countries in the world. Education, education and the knowledge created by them have been the key developers, reformers and resource creators of the nation, the stone legs of our entire well-being. Society will not be developed and its problems will not be solved without a strong and progressive education package. That is why we must continue to make sensible arrangements for education in order to strengthen the future of the nation. Systematic education, valuing of studies must be increased at all levels of decision-making. The education system needs to be developed as a whole, but an important part of it today is the proposal for a law on the amendment of the Student Support Act to the parliamentary referral debate. The student's student's student's student's study allowance is therefore a state student's contribution to the financing of post-compulsory studies. In Finland, its components are student grant, housing allowance and state guarantee for student loans, for example. The general starting point for receiving student support is the approval of the educational institution, full-time studies, progress in studies and the need for financial support. Today's proposal to amend the Student Aid Act, which is of a technical nature, is a good step in the right direction. It makes it more flexible, makes it clearer, humane in terms of the conditions for access to study aid. It is therefore proposed to clarify the provisions on studies eligible for study aid in line with the current application practice. The conditions for the grant of the right to study in education other than those subject to public supervision would be made more flexible in such a way that, in order to obtain the right to study aid, it would no longer be necessary for the organiser of the training to hold such training for at least one year. This change makes sense because the condition may unduly make it difficult for new training providers who have worked less than one year to obtain the right to study aid for education. The proposal would also make it easier for those who have already established their activities to obtain the right of study allowance for the new training they organise. The amendment should add some additional applications to training providers already covered by the right to study aid who apply for the right to study aid for training other than those already organised. Mr President! However, it should be noted that the grant of the right to study grants would continue to be subject to the condition that the training is equivalent to the training provided for in the Vocational Training Act. In addition, in order to emphasise the primacy of student support, it is proposed to remove the requirement for the temporary nature of an acceptable reason for the slowing down of studies from the section on sufficient progress in studies. An acceptable reason could also be another factor that would reduce the student’s ability to study in comparison to the student’s illness in the future. Such a factor could be, as has been mentioned here, such as dyslexia, in other words, permanent obstacles or retards that people face in human life, in their own lives, as a challenge. Mr President! The Government's proposals to amend the Student Aid Act in this respect are very well-founded. The changes will streamline and clarify the whole area of student support. These changes are steps in the direction that the strengthening of skills is an improvement in the future and the success of Finland in general. Education is a major factor in survival in the course of a person’s life. Education, education in general, must meet the needs of people, society and working life. Student support as part of a big whole is a way for many students to survive, a way for many students to survive.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u6	Mr President! There is a Government proposal today to amend the Student Aid Act. The proposal contains mainly technical but all the more important changes to ensure the continuation of the current application practice. As one of the changes to be proposed, I would like to highlight the clarification of the requirements for sufficient progress in the course of studies, which is the condition for the grant of study aid. In the future, there could be other factors affecting the ability to study, such as student dyslexia, in addition to falling ill. I think it is justified that the student's personal situation should be taken into account in the granting of student allowance. The changes are justified and I support them. Mr President! However, one aspect of student support has been overlooked, namely the lack of incentives for student support to work during studies. Many students contacted me about this during the spring. The income thresholds for student aid have been substantially increased 12 years ago — that is, 12 years ago. This is not a trivial matter, because this spring: Kela sent over 40,000 students a decision on the recovery of student support. On average, the amount of aid to be recovered will be more than EUR 1000 for these students. Compared with the previous year, the number of students subject to recovery increased by over 5,000 persons. Much has been said in this Chamber about the importance of working and entrepreneurship, well done. However, it cannot be that the work done by students is not given the same value as that given to others. In recent years, for example, when social security traps have been dismantled, including through the introduction of protective parts for unemployment benefit and housing support, these low income limits, which have not been increased, have weakened students' incentives to work, and that is not right. Mr President! I think this is an important principle: do we want to give the students a message that work should be worthwhile, or do we want to say that it is not worth it? At the same time, if a student is able to complete his studies and work in a secondary job, it should not be punished but rather rewarded. We cannot send our young people a message that it is not worth working in this country and making money. In addition, going to work already during studies opens doors and opportunities for young people after graduation. I see that, in the parliamentary term that begins now, the income limits for student aid must be increased by 50%, in accordance with a study carried out by the Finnish Labour Institute, and, of course, to Minister Terho, thank you for taking the matter forward and clarifying it. This change would enable students to make a strong living, reduce the amount of study aid to be recovered and also reduce administrative work. And at all, working for students would become genuinely more encouraging. Mr President! The Student Support Act has been amended and specified several times over the past four years: a new student loan credit has been introduced, the impact of parental income on student support for a student under 18 who is living independently has been discontinued and other — good and worthwhile changes. However, we are once again dealing with some minor changes to this important legislation. I see that the effectiveness of the student support system should be examined in its entirety, and I am now offering you — fortunately, there are also some colleagues who are sitting in the negotiations at the Regent House — a free tip for you: include in the future government programme an overall evaluation of the study grant, which would include the incentives to coordinate study aid and work, especially at the end of studies, and the operation of incentives to study aid in general, such as the effectiveness of the loan credit and incentives for rapid completion. This comprehensive reform of the Student Support Act, which therefore also includes raising income limits, must be brought to the attention of Parliament during this parliamentary term. I hope that there will be support and support for this idea in other groups as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u7	Mr President! It is particularly pleasant to start a new parliamentary term by talking about student support and opportunities. I myself have been the young person who was not very interested in studying in comprehensive school and who also missed out on vocational school courses, but we have such a good society that we have created a system of studies and a school institution where even such a person who left his school has had the opportunity to start again, to get a profession, to have more than one academic degree.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u10	Mr President! We are dealing with the amendment of the Student Aid Act, and both of these matters, which are included in it, are justified and reasonable. I myself would like to highlight here the changes that are being made to the adequate progress of studies, i.e. the student would be entitled to study aid, even though the studies have not made sufficient progress if he or she presents acceptable reasons for temporarily slowing down the studies. So acceptable reasons can be the illness of the student or his or her next of kin, the difficult situation of the student’s life, or other particular cause temporarily affected. It is now important in this legislative amendment that this temporary reason should be removed, because we have many other reasons – for example, this dyslexia – that can slow down the progress of studies and that this can be better taken into account in the future. This change in the law will in particular improve the position of students who are at risk of being excluded from study aid as studies slow down, and this is also a clear way of reducing the risk of exclusion for young people. This is also important in the sense that some of the mental pressure that young people are currently under during their studies also results in an increase in mental health problems among young people, and in this way we would be able to prevent — when we know that there is a possibility of this kind of allowance — that life would not be so harsh and black and white. And while it is proposed to remove the requirement of temporaryity, the reason for the progress of studies and the sufficient progress of studies must, of course, continue to have a clear temporal link, i.e. I do not believe that this will at least be misused. I warmly agree with Mr Marttinen, who raised the need for a comprehensive reform of student support, so it would really be worth considering what their significance is, because it is a significant additional administrative burden at the moment when they are monitored and recovered, and if the student is making good progress in his studies, why limit his or her work? In other words, I warmly support its re-evaluation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u11	Mr President! The financial changes brought about by this proposal for student aid are relatively small in their entirety, but for some individuals these changes may be very significant, and in this case they may indeed be positive. In particular, I should like to thank the rapporteur for this proposal, which relates to Article 5b and Article 3 thereof, which provides that the requirement for a temporary stay of an acceptable reason for the slowing down of studies should be removed from the section on sufficient progress in the course of studies. This is indeed a good thing, because we have not only this dyslexia mentioned in this proposal but also other possible reasons. In fact, dyslexia is a neurological, highly inherited trait that can be found in up to 5 to 6% of the population, and it can indeed contribute to the simple need for more study time. After all, this is not a temporary disturbance, it is a situation that lasts all our lives. But let me remind you that we have other neurological situations, such as dysfunctions of activity and attention, such as ADHD, which is also a neurobiological brain dysfunction, which causes the problem of attentionlessness, hyperactivity and impulsiveness, and may affect the need for more than usual for that total time to study. I hope that these various possible problems will indeed be taken into account in this respect. In addition, students' mental health problems have increased. After all, the Student Health Foundation studies the health of university students every four years. The latest survey was conducted in 2016 and revealed that about 30 per cent of students experience various kinds of mental problems, fatigue, excessive stress, stress. Then, according to this latest statistics, about 4% of the more serious psychiatric problems suffer. But these too can be much more permanent in nature than merely temporary. In order not to exclude students, it is important not to deprive them of student support.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u12	Mr President! It is a pleasant task to congratulate Minister Terho, both as Minister for Sport and as Minister responsible for these student aid issues. The final stages of the World Cup — at least for the time being the final stages of the ministerial mission — are fine, and warm congratulations also to the Minister, as well as to all the Finnish gold lions. Today we are discussing another important part of your portfolio of ministers, which includes these issues of study aid, and I personally welcome the fact that this definition of temporary retardation is now being widened and can take better account, for example, of this dyslexia. But what I would like to thank you for is the measures that have now been taken during your term of office, in particular the fact that this autumn we will now have a study material supplement that will make things easier for many students. After the cost of learning material has risen at the second level, in the future less than EUR 50 will receive a monthly increase in learning material for the second stage — upper secondary school and vocational education — to facilitate and guarantee that no one’s studies will be caught in the future. During your time and during this term of government, good reforms have also been made to support secondary education. Parental incomes no longer affect student support when a young person lives on his or her own, and the number of months of support has been increased from nine to ten. Good speeches have been made here today. The new Members of Parliament have raised, among other things, this issue of the limit to free income, and it is, in itself, a pity that we still have one group of people who are being punished for hard work, and it is students. So even if studies progress at the desired and set pace, if a youth works, he will be punished for it. I personally hope that these limits on free income can be overcome in the future. Now, of course, we will be interested to see whether the cuts to education will be patched up at the Regulation House. After all, the Greens have clearly stated that at least they will not return to the government which does not have this cut, i.e. the billion, to education, and I hope that the Greens will insist on raising the level of student support to which it was at the time. Mr President! Many young people are also afraid — fear is great — of what kind of boogeyman comes from the House of Regulation. Will there be a good boogeyman in Bratislava, or will there be an evil boogeyman with his hands in the children’s pockets? That's what debt is, cutting kids off.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u13	Mr President! For us Finns, it is important not only to have dyslexics but also to take into account students who have hearing or vision as a reason for spending more time on studies. We Finns start studying from very different starting points, and everyone must have the opportunity to obtain a degree so that they can also manage financially during their studies. Changes to the Student Support Act are necessary. In the past, the law has discriminated against dyslexics because only temporary reasons, such as sudden illness, have been accepted for the slower conduct of studies. We should support, for example, the study of dyslexics, hearing and visually impaired people, even though it is not a temporary matter in this case to do more slowly. There is also a real need for a change in the possibilities for new training. It is important to waive the restriction that students can receive student financial aid for new training only after a new training programme has been offered in Finland for one year. New education programmes are needed in Finland, but there are not enough students to receive them if they know that they can't receive student financial aid as a test student in the first year. Working life is changing rapidly, and in the future we simply cannot afford to have such plugs for the creation of educational programmes in Finland. The Red-Green parties, with the support of the Centre, have flashed that the future government will adopt a more ambitious climate policy than the other EU countries. On this basis, Finland will find jobs lost in industry. Many of these people no longer have the work they have been doing for years when their work begins, for example, in China at Chinese emission levels. These people will be left with the option of training in a new profession or of expanding their skills through conversion training. Therefore, in addition to young students who need student financial aid, students from other age groups will also be increasingly in need of student financial support. This means that the Board of Directors must provide enough money for future student support because there will be more students. Thank you, Minister Terho, for your work. It's good to see the blue ones in this room this season, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u14	Mr President! This government proposal removes the temporaryity in student support from the fact that the student is entitled to student allowance, although his or her studies have not progressed sufficiently if he or she presents an acceptable reason why his or her studies have slowed down. An acceptable reason may be the student’s illness or any other factor that is comparable to it — including this dyslexia — and also the illness of his/her next of kin, his/her difficult life situation or any other particular reason that temporarily contributed to the progress of his/her studies. This is in the 5b section. I would like to ask you, Minister, how long studies can slow down. At what point, then, will the studies have to progress? We are also talking about effective student care services, and effective student health care is preventive, it prevents major problems in advance. In many cases, students are faced with a snowball phenomenon: one small problem then becomes greater. I would like to ask you about these resources here in society: how do you see mental health services as well as health care services there in student health care, when a distressed message is being sent from there all the time? Then I would also like to highlight this increase in the income ceiling for student aid, and I would like to take this area of care, for example. I know a lot of students who would like to do a job, they have studies so far that they could do it, but yes, that income limit is such a troll and boogeyman — now that the boogeyman word is being used here today — that it prevents it. When many students want to do night shifts, evening shifts, weekends, holidays, and then may well accumulate that coming, what on earth should be done with this? The area of care is the area where there are no factors involved. We don't have any employees. When students could do that patching up, it is now quite a poverty of reason that we do not take all the resources into our hands. And the work of its maker advises. In this way, we will also have good experts in the field when we start doing that work as soon as possible. I would also like to ask when I think it is very important that we encourage students to finish their studies, that when something is started it is completed. In what way do you see, Minister, that we can get young people to complete their studies and that there is enough long-term and we can get experts in Finland? For the work and profession and the fact that we are going to do and increase society and tax revenue, that is everything a and o. I would like answers to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u15	Mr President! A number of good speeches have been made here, so I would also like to thank Minister Terho very briefly for a good and well-founded proposal to make important changes to the Student Aid Act. In particular, as has been pointed out in several speeches, it is important to clarify the sufficient progress of studies in such a way that such factors, such as dyslexia, which is a very common challenge, are better taken into account. Very good speeches have been made in this debate, including Heikkinen, Marttinen, Laiho, Heinonen, Juvonen, above these limits of student freedom, and this is a really big social issue. Indeed, 40,000 young people have recently received a letter on the recovery of student aid, and this is a rather harsh message that hard work is being punished by society. Students are a very important labour force resource for the service sector. Representative Juvonen described well the situation in the care sector and the potential of the students there, but in general in the service sector. If you look at this recession of more than ten years, through which Finland as a national economy had to go, the tourism industry, there the accommodation and restaurant industry were absolutely central to such economic lights, which gave you the belief that a new rise will begin, as has been achieved by a good government in the current parliamentary term. The service sector would not work around Finland if there were no students all over Finland who want to take up work in it alongside their studies, and in this sense this work during students' studies should also be made more possible, bearing in mind, of course, that studies are progressing at the same time. And in particular, I would like to make provision for this debate that when our growing livelihoods are all over the country, we should also take into account the fact that there are students all over the country, that educational institutions in different parts of Finland are strong. This is how we get skilled people all over Finland and answers to the labour shortage from which messages are currently coming from all over Finland. A united team wins, just like we saw at the World Cup.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u16	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the present Secretary of Editor Terho for a spot of light that I experienced as he prepared and carried forward. In other words, during the last term of the government, there has been a change in the Student Support Act in such a way that the grant of an athlete’s grant granted by the Ministry of Education and Culture no longer affects the amount of study aid — it has previously been taken into account in income control — and for this I thank Minister Terho. With special teacher training in this regard, I see that there are good changes. Here the word “ready disorder ” and such health problems, which may delay the course of study, have been raised a lot. There's a lot of good here. Now we have enjoyed the results of hockey, but I also want to take into account Finnish top athletes in the extension of student support and whether our student support allows Finland to make sufficient progress as a top athlete in its own career. - I'll take that phone open, I've got a small piece written there: How can you prepare for top-level sport at international level and learn at the same time? An athlete seeking to reach the absolute top must be able to concentrate fully on sport and, in parallel, to do what he can to complete his studies. This brings with it many challenges: economic challenges, adaptation of daily training to studies, interruptions in the schedules of domestic and international camps. A prerequisite for student study aid for young people is an adequate achievement of credits, which seems impossible. In education, funding is often based on the number of graduates, and in the second stage, special students become better paid — by which I mean education institutions, education providers. Could athletes be compared to students who require special support because of the above challenges? Unfortunately, students who need special support are not taken into account in the funding model of polytechnics and universities, but somehow these athletes should also be taken into account there. And now to this matter of student support: When awarding student grants, the status of top athletes should be taken into account by allowing them a longer study period, and credits when collecting a certain number of credits in a given period — and this time, for example, will be halved. This is one of the things that affects many athletes in Finland who are currently aiming for the World Cup or the Olympic Games. They're practically unable to start studying, they're unable to work, they're trying to make a living somewhere. And since Finnish society does not significantly support athletes, their efforts should at least give them the opportunity to accept a study place and, on a very flexible schedule, take their studies forward. Then a second comment on this student allowance, which I made: I have not checked this now, but I believe that in determining the student’s student’s student’s student’s student’s study allowance, it is still affected by the parents’ income. And what is the problem here, when this is determined, is that there is one child in a family and there are five children somewhere. In a single-child family, the hard income of the parents may be enough to finance the student's studies, but if the family has five children and applies for student financial aid and it is prohibited on the grounds that the parents have a high income but that the number of children who are dependent on these parents is not taken into account at all, it should be included in this definition of study allowance when determining the amount of the study allowance. So if you can now ask the Minister how the athletes will be taken into account in this legislative amendment, will they be included in this flexibility? And the second question I would like to ask is: will the number of children who are dependent on the parents of the applicants for study aid be taken into account? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u17	Mr President! I asked for the floor mainly to support very briefly here, for example, the speeches by representatives of Kemppi and Räsänen on student mental health problems. As Mr Räsänen said, more students have now reported psychological symptoms or direct mental health problems than ever before in the FSHS studies. Of course, we do not know whether it is a matter of increasing the number of these problems or of better identification of them. However, I personally think that these pressures and the resulting problems have become more common, and I hope that, now that we are discussing support for students, sufficient attention will also be paid to strengthening these services which students receive, for example health services. Student support is an important issue, and almost everyone here has expressed their thoughts about it, but yes to an individual student who is in trouble, often the good services, for example, in relation to mental health problems, are even more important. When I examined this issue, it turned out that there is such a private donation-based Valo-fund in the University of Helsinki funds, and I hope that together we can somehow support the resources of this fund, because this fund is using its resources to deal with the mental health problems of students. The recent public debate has also shown that schools, although at second instance, do not have sufficient resources to deal with these student health problems, which are also often precisely these mental health problems. So we should get more school cranes and school health professionals. In fact, I think that, when a government programme is being developed at the Regent House and, for example, when it has been on the agenda of extending compulsory education, at least as important, in fact more important, it would be more important to allocate these resources to student health care and school health care and to helping those schoolchildren who are in trouble, rather than making it easier for families who have always been used to paying for their own textbooks for their students and school-going young people to avoid it in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u18	Mr President! For us students, that study path is very different for everyone. Today we have talked about the fact that what if it lasts a little longer in those studies, just for example because of dyslexia or other things? In addition to that, we should also be discussing today the fact that those students who want to graduate a little faster, who have the capacity to perform faster. As far as these students are concerned, this student support system is not fair. Many students would really like to do it faster, I have a couple of guys who could have done it quite lightly in up to three years. But the reality is that many students have to work at the same time, because it is not necessarily enough for that student support. Everyone has a few different reasons. If we had such a student support system, of which, for example, our basic Finns have already been given an incentive model three years ago, i.e. if you complete the five-year university degree in three years, it would be possible for you to receive a five-year student grant in three years. This would be cost-neutral for the state, because a similar degree comes out. But on the other hand, this is either cost-neutral or benefits the state to such an extent that these students, who are able to study faster, can actually work much earlier. Thus, instead of spending the day studying, working the evening, they would spend the day studying, studying the evening and graduating faster. Through this incentive model, they would then receive more income, and it would not be such a motivation that, at the same time, work in a completely different field is being carried out which does not actually qualify for the degree they are studying at that time. However, such an observation on this model of incentives must be made that it is not worth going in the direction that it will then act negatively on those who do not make progress quickly enough, but simply to involve this encouraging element in their contribution to making progress faster. So this is either cost-neutral for the state or rather benefits our public finances. Hopefully this future government will have the courage to make this kind of bigger reform, unlike the previous government. This would actually benefit the students enormously. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u19	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz raised the information that would tell the House that there would be an extension of compulsory education. If the economy is not allowed to limit thinking, then of course it is worth doing just as much as it is doing. But this extension of compulsory education to 18 years does not in fact guarantee that young people will become a vocational qualification or a matriculation examination, because it often takes 19 years to complete these studies. In fact, this extension of compulsory education should be extended beyond the age of 18, and it is not necessarily a simple matter and costs at least EUR 200 million. If we do not allow economic realities to limit our thinking, then surely it is worth doing if there is really so much money. But when we know that there is no limit to money and, in fact, debt is still being taken up at the moment, then, as Mrs Zyskowicz pointed out, it would be worth considering whether a young person who is suffering from problems has to do with school. Personally, I do not believe that the student in charge will remain in school, but rather that I prefer to believe that the 200 million will not need to be put into, say, a quarter of it if it is effectively targeted at curators, special education, school health care and, even before the second stage of primary school, it is better spent on these needs of the various learners. Much more effective is the result than the fact that 200 million would be put into compulsory schooling, an extension of compulsory school leave, which would in fact end in 18 years and would not guarantee that a young person would even complete that vocational qualification. It is worth considering carefully how to solve the problems of young people's studies. In my opinion, Mr Terho, you have made good decisions, and it is precisely money that is effectively spent on those young people or on those families who have difficulties, for example, in covering the cost of upper secondary education or in covering the cost of secondary vocational education. In fact, on that election tour, I noticed that even the High School League is not in favour of transferring one of those costs together to the public side — for we will then pay them out of the common funds — but they also presented models for the free second stage to be implemented, but it would be carried out far smarter than the transfer of those current costs to one side.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u20	Mr President! I myself am in favour of a policy such as that of directing aid to those who really need it and then encouraging everyone as much as possible to increase the common cake as much as possible. Now that the various speeches have also called for investments in student services, which, of course, always pay, I would like to justify this verification of these income limits, which have been called for in several speeches. So, as I recall, a study published by the Finnish Labour Institute in January had estimated that if this nine-month limit on the free income from study allowance rose from just over EUR 12,000 to EUR 18,000, then almost all these welfare losses resulting from the fact that the student will be refunded would be eliminated, as the students would probably not make any more money than this. However, on average, they would make about EUR 600 more per year, and that would then mean an additional revenue of almost EUR 6 million per year for the state through tax revenue. So a measure such as the abolition of the income thresholds, which have been examined more than a decade ago, or increased to EUR 18000, would help to obtain the extra money, for example, for these services of students described in the previous speeches, which in themselves are necessary, and it is to be welcomed to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u21	Mr President! Now that Heinonen's gone to expand the conversation, I wish he could listen for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u24	At this point, let's take Minister Terho, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u25	Mr President! In answer to a few questions: First of all, I think Mr Juvonen asked about the change with regard to the slowing down of studies. In this respect, the legislation remains the same, i.e. the lengths themselves do not change in their entirety, which is now being changed. After all, these are quite small but important incisions. Mental health services are definitely very important but not directly under my remit. But it is obvious that they are in great demand and are highly asked not only in society but also among students, and there is a continuing shortage of supply. Mäenpää said about the impact of parents' incomes. Their impact on the basic amount of the student grant has already been abandoned if the young person is under 18 and is living independently. Then these follow-up repairs: At this stage, as in other cases, it is necessary to point out the next government, which, I hope, will address these shortcomings and will, in particular, move forward with the question of the income limits for study aid raised by many representatives. And in this very last parliamentary term, a very well-documented report has shown that, like a representative here: It seems to me that, according to this estimate, a 50% increase in the revenue ceiling would strengthen public finances by some EUR 6 million — not to pay the taxpayer but to strengthen public finances — and this is a very good excuse for this parliamentary term. I hope that Parliament and the future government will take it. Otherwise, I would like to thank you for the various thanks and cooperation I have had with the representatives here, and I wish you a very good continuation of these important issues, which has also been raised here today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u26	Thank you, Minister. — Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u27	Mr President! Thank you, too, for the work done for Minister Sampo Terho. Now to today's business. Representative Heinonen here raised the challenges of raising compulsory school age. I myself have a long career in matters relating to special education, as do some other representatives here. When you think about raising compulsory education age and thinking about a ninth-grader student in a special grade, you have to ask a little question about whether the compulsory extension of compulsory education is necessarily the right solution then to bring the student into society and into a good profession. I don't think so. As a result, the Regent House — when everyone sends these greetings here — should seriously consider whether a more targeted solution can be made to this, which is therefore also linked to the questions of study aid, because it is obvious that the structure of student grants must be such as to encourage work, encourage the completion of work on time, but also, of course, encourage the basic income needed during studies. Representative Mr Mäenpää raised the question of vocational education and I think that in a very good speech he highlighted the challenges facing vocational education and training at the moment. It is true that the school day there is such that the students are home, doing certain tasks on their own. I also think that perhaps it could also be considered at the Säätytalo that professional education should be subject to a strong quality assessment and also assess whether it is now a little too long at the moment. These important things that are given in vocational education can certainly be taught more closely. Finland needs good professional women, professionals, for example Kauhava, my municipality of residence. If there are qualified welders, metalmen, I'll take them there right away to work. So there's a chance. With these greetings.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u28	Mr President! When greetings were received, I also send greetings for my part to the House of Regulation. Mr Heinonen raised an extremely important point here. So now that this extension of compulsory education is indeed planned, we have a problem both at primary school and at that vocational school. We are currently graduating from comprehensive school, or receiving an emission certificate, people who do not have literacy, writing or arithmetic skills. This seems like a quilt of a fool if you think that these problems are being transferred to and from a vocational school. I think we should rather focus on that elementary school. As far as this vocational school is concerned, this latest reform that was carried out there has certainly been a rather harsh message from the teachers. That is exactly what has already been mentioned here, a representative in his own speech, which means that there is not enough teaching there. This self-guidance, which is precisely for these people who do not have the skills to read, write or count, has been taken there. How can they self-directedly study? This is particularly highlighted in those professions where you need to know things, for example, when you need to count. The nursing sector is one of these, you have to understand what you are doing. I would say that there is enough to fix this without extending compulsory education. Because if it is done now, then it will be so expensive that practically these runaways will not be repaired. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u29	Mr President! Minister Terho has arrived, but I would like to thank him for both this proposal and the report that he made at the Finnish Research Institute on these income limits for study aid, and I hope that this study will indeed be taken into account. Indeed, it showed that if these income thresholds were significantly increased by 50%, taking into account both tax revenues and current transfers, the net income of general government would increase by around EUR 6 million. So instead of decreasing, they would increase. I personally believe that this could go even further. I do not think there is any incentive to work. In other words, I would be happy to remove these income limits altogether, and then the student would not be penalised only for that study and work. If he spends his free time working, it is better than spending it on something less beneficial for which students often spend their time. And then I'm gonna bring up the family students. If we want to increase the birth rate, this poverty in student families should be addressed. It is quite unreasonable if family students are forced both to study, to work and then to care for their children in order to be able to cope at all. In other words, an increase in the number of guardians would be very necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u30	Mr. Speaker! I have listened with great interest to a rather broad-based study support debate that has affected education policy on a wider scale and many other related issues. And I would like to say for myself that the speeches I have heard have been well thought out, sensible speeches and have told us that this world of education is widely known, both personally and, of course, through parliamentary representation. What I would like to add to this at this stage is that the starting point for the speeches has, of course, been very much a concern for the current situation of students: mental health, health services, poorly organised education, too short days. Here, for example, Mäenpää, Sankelo and Rantanen raised very well these shortcomings in vocational education and training at the moment. It may sound a little strange that from here on the left side of the hall I mention such words as ‘the employer’s perspective’. I myself have been in the employer position of large public health organisations for a long time, and I am very concerned that in Finland study periods are too long. Let us start too late, let us have the famous interim years, let us delay our studies, and, as a result of all this, we will not be able to graduate late until we reach work in our 30s for the first time — it is very worrying, it is happening much earlier in many countries like us. Of course, it is the case that well-organized student support... When I started my studies at the University of Turku in 70 C.E., there was no student grant. A student loan was taken out, although it was a government interest subsidy. We have taken a long step forward in improving the position of students, but I would definitely like to highlight this aspect of working life now, as many others have already pointed out. At the moment, we need a skilled workforce in many areas, and that is where the key to learning at work is, and can even be done entirely on salary. We can arrange that, while people are working, they receive more official credits, it is done with pay and not just with a separate student support system. All in all, however, the debate has been good and constructive and there is a shared concern about the status of students at the moment. And, of course, everything is aimed at having a skilled, good workforce in Finland that can build this well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-28-ps-9.u31	Mr President! We're talking about students and their business here, and I'd like to send my regards to the Regent House, too. During the last term of the government, a scoring tool for the matriculation examination was made to score subjects and grades, and it was then thought to be a tool for students to sneak into higher education institutions more quickly. There, among other things, long mathematics was listed at a very high level, meaning that long mathematics is one of the crucial subjects if you are to reach higher education institutions in the future. And there was an article in Helsingin Sanomat, whether yesterday or the day before yesterday, about it, which took the view, among other things, that the study groups in upper secondary schools have now grown very large, because all students of course wish and want to study its long mathematics so that they could then move on with their studies. But there is also a lack of motivation, because not everyone necessarily wants to study, is aiming for something else. But that long mathematics is absolutely forced to study in it and still perform with very good grades. I would like the House of Regulation to consider the importance of this reform as well. Did it really listen to high schools, teachers, students, or was it just considered from a university point of view? The problem is also that many high school students have contacted the amount of stress that this reform has brought, and especially that we all know that mathematics is not necessarily the easiest subject, and yet there is so much to be invested in. Of course, in short mathematics, when you write it well, you have to get the best grades in order to get those high scores. This would be a concern. I would like to see this reform carried out once again at the Regent House and to ask whether there is any room for undue stress on students. That some kind of reason also for such reforms. And another point that I would also like to raise and what is praised here in Parliament and in general, at the national level, is the digital world and the electronic environment. It also makes a lot of contact from students that the electronic environment is not good for everyone and it would be desirable for books to remain, read and write, and not everything to be done electronically.
