ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment. A maximum of one hour shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u2	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the initiative for raising this very important issue of microplastics in our society. Microplastics are an uncontrollable threat to our society. In fact, many people feel powerless about it: Plastic is everywhere. They are found in products we buy, drinking water, breathing air, animals, soil and water bodies. How can a single person or state affect this problem? Fortunately, as this initiative states, there are many different ways of dealing with this problem. Changes in legislation, practices, guidelines and attitudes can prevent plastic from entering the environment and breaking into microplastics. I am in favour of an immediate response and intervention. It's very important. Dear Parliament! Madam President! Plastic is not part of the water system. We Social Democrats are very concerned about water dumping and pollution. If we do not take action now both in Finland and internationally, the consequences can be very serious. Action should be taken to reduce both microplastics and to combat climate change. A significant part of the Finnish population lives in the vicinity of Finnish waters. For example, in my home town of Lappeenranta, the Saimaa region, water bodies and their well-being have a significant impact on people’s everyday lives: both well-being and livelihood. Mr President! I think we should get rid of the microplastics of cosmetics. In addition, however, it is good to take a more comprehensive look at the situation with regard to microplastics. A solution to the plastic problem must be found that crosses all levels of plastic production from consumption to recycling. Mr President! I am very pleased that the Rinte Government’s programme includes the following entry: ‘Initiate plastic recycling and implements proposals for a plastic map. “ This plastic road map, mentioned in the Government Programme, is a route towards a sustainable Finnish plastic economy. In 2018, experts have collected key measures to address the challenges posed by plastic waste. The map is based on the European Union's plastic strategy, which forms part of the comprehensive European Union circular economy package. It is great that this issue has been widely addressed throughout Europe. One of the measures taken by the plastic road map relates precisely to microplastics and is intended to develop the identification and risk management of the sources of emissions of microplastics and their environmental and health impacts. The entry also mentions the need to reduce the use of microplastics. I would therefore like to express the hope to the government and similar ministers that this road map will be implemented and that it will be promoted and implemented without delay. I hope that the matter will be dealt with in Parliament as necessary in terms of its importance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u3	Mr President! Clean waters are our great national wealth, whose value is incalculable. The importance of clean fresh water and the so-called blue bioeconomy will continue to grow in the future, so it is worth taking good care of our waters. The citizens' initiative to ban microplastics in cosmetics is part of this. I would therefore like to thank the authors of the initiative and the signatories. Water protection serves the exploitation of water resources and the objectives of environmental health and internal safety. Finnish water bodies require active and long-term protection at every level, including for microplastics. In many countries, the use of microplastics in cosmetics is being banned, and in Sweden and Britain, for example, this has already been done. Chemicals are passed along with microplastics, and these end up in the human body pose a health risk. In the case of small fish, the accumulated microplastic mass blocks the digestive system and, at its worst, starves the animal to death. The recent Environment and Energy Policy Programme of the Finns Party published this year states: ‘Although the world’slargest emissions and waste from watercourses Mr President! The citizens' initiative and its content are in line with the environmental policy objectives of Finland, and it is easy for us to support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u4	Oh, well, apparently they want a debut on this, that's great. I would ask those Members who wish to speak to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u5	Madam President! First of all, a great thank you to those who took the initiative — 58,000 names involved and for the right thing to do. Microplastics are one of the challenges that we must tackle, and this is related to human health and the state and future of water bodies in that respect. Over the last 50 years, the use of plastic has increased globally by 20 times, and in the next 20 years the trend is likely to be similar, i.e. even doubling. What is interesting about this is that microplastics can be replaced entirely in cosmetics products. There is a means to do so, and that is why it is justified to update the legislation in that respect. The means are there, and the objective is clear: to keep the waters clean.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u6	Mr President! I too would like to thank you for this good and timely initiative. After all, microplastic is a truly invisible and frightening threat worldwide, and this initiative focuses on prohibiting the import, sale and manufacture of cosmetic products containing microplastics in Finland. Fortunately, many Finnish cosmetics manufacturers have already replaced microplastic in their products with biodegradable products, but there is still a great deal of it in imported cosmetics. I really hope that the import ban can come into force under this initiative, and I also hope that all Finnish cosmetics companies will now be responsible for ensuring that their products no longer use microplastics.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u7	Mr President! I thank the authors of the initiative for a very good and well-founded initiative. Last season we had a group of parliamentarians who, with a written question, proposed the same thing. Microplastics come from many sources, but one of the most useless and easy to remove is products to which it is added deliberately, such as cosmetics. Of course, it would be best if we could have EU legislation on this issue, but I believe that if some EU countries, such as Finland, move ahead nationally, as I hope, it will also contribute to a common EU line on this deliberate ban on the addition of microplastics. I believe that at some point in the future people will be amazed at the time when, in principle, eternal material was made disposable. Also, in various packagings, the use of non-degradable plastic, which then becomes microplastic in the environment, must be stopped.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u8	Mr President! All-embracing plastic waste is a huge global environmental problem, and microplastics are one part of the plastic waste problem and a very despicable problem. All the adverse effects of microplastics are not yet fully known, but it is clear that microplastics are harmful to habitats, organisms and humans. Mr President! So I would also like to thank those who have taken the initiative. Cosmetic microplastics are useless and replaceable with bio-based alternatives. Cosmetic microplastics can be replaced without anyone really missing them, and in many European countries this has already been done. However, at the same time, it is good to remember and acknowledge that banning microplastics in cosmetics does not solve the microplastic problem alone, because there are many other sources of microplastic, which means that we need a comprehensive strategy and an approach to combating plastic waste.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u9	Madam President! I, too, would like to thank the citizens' initiative. This initiative is certainly necessary. When Mr Hassi said here that it would be good to have legislation at EU level, last year representatives in the European Parliament called on the Commission to present such an EU-wide ban on added microplastics, including cosmetics and cleaning products. However, many countries have already taken the path of these bans on their own initiative, and in that sense progress has been made without the EU. Mr Sarkkinen rightly pointed out that these microplastics in cosmetics really represent a small proportion of the amount of plastic that ends up in the sea, about 2% of this primary microplastic, and in that sense the big problems are somewhere else. But, as someone said here in the debate, this is certainly one of the easiest things we can give up, and, on the other hand, so-called useless substances, and in that sense we can move forward. It must also be remembered that Finland has very good references in plastic specification
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u10	Mr President! The citizens' initiative is a good one, although the proportion of cosmetics in microplastics of the sea is very small, as was mentioned in the previous speech. Microplastics usually come into the environment from larger plastics, which are then broken down in the sea, but even in Finland we also have microplastics for textiles and cosmetics, even though they are cleaned. Well, our big cosmetics companies are about to stop using microplastics, and that's a good thing, but there's a lot of online makeup, cosmetics, and they don't know what's coming out of there. Both these days there are smartphones, cell phones, apps that you can use to check the barcode to see if it contains microplastics, a single label does not always make it clear. This would be good to be aware of the fact that the store checks what it sells, and we are also enlightened by it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u11	Mr President! I think it is valuable that colleagues across party lines believe that this citizens' initiative is valuable and important, and this ban on microplastics in cosmetics is a good idea to start by means of legislation. We have talked a lot here about climate change as a key environmental problem on a global scale. It must be noted, however, that this world’s plasticification in the long span may be equally fatal, and in that respect it is valuable that we take note of it. At the moment, perhaps this phenomenon of plasticisation is at its worst seen, as has been said here, in Asia and Africa, in metropolitan areas, in metropolitan areas, there are absolutely terrible prospects of plastic waste. However, plastic has been developed primarily here in the Northern Hemisphere, and it is good that we are also starting from here with these powerful legislative measures to release plastic. And this initiative to ban microplastics is one important initiative in this process.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u13	Mr President! I'm joining the same minds, too. However, I would like to point out that point here, as a number of other representatives have pointed out, that microplastics in cosmetics are not the only problem, but they come from many other sources. Of course, because of the decay of plastics, they end up in water bodies, as it were, from a larger piece of plastic, but then, for example, the fleece material is one that ends up with a perfectly normal wash of microplastic in the water. It would therefore be interesting if this citizens' initiative were to be discussed here, to take a slightly broader perspective on this issue, not only on microplastics in cosmetics, but also on how to avoid microplastics entering water bodies a little more widely. On the other hand, there is also a lack of research on the harm of microplastics — hopefully this aspect will also be considered: how can we get this information on our hands? I know there are projects going on. I'm sure it's good for all of us to know more about the effects of microplastic.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u14	Mr President! This citizens' initiative is important and it is really necessary to reduce the number of microplastics in the environment. The Left Alliance also wants to see the plastic-free Baltic Sea and the rest of the environment more widely. I think that the import, sale and manufacture of cosmetics containing microplastics should be prohibited by law. Although many cosmetic manufacturers have already moved to these biodegradable alternatives, it is clear that regulation is simply the best way to influence the sector. We have managed to improve the state of water bodies in Finland in recent decades, and I see that this development needs to be preserved and this would be one step in that work. It is true, as has been said here, that this does not solve the whole issue, but I would like to stress that it is precisely in this area that these microplastics can be replaced entirely by other alternatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u15	Mr President! Plastics pose a very serious threat to nature and our waters. They are long-term, they are dangerous in many ways. I warmly support this citizens' initiative. In March 2018, I asked Minister of the Environment Tiilikainen if Finland could ban microplastics. At the time, the Minister for the Environment said that EU-wide action would be taken. Thanks to him, the plastic road map was also made, thanks for that. But it is reasonable that Finland should also take these individual decisions of its own. I support that speech, as Mrs Multala has said here, that we could take a broader view of what we could do, that the microplastic does not leak into the environment and that it does not flow into the food chains. Mr Petteri Orpo, as Minister of Finance, then replied to my question that he was dealing with a plastic tax, and I understand that the plastic tax report is now under way in the VM. I ask here, unfortunately, there is no Minister for the Environment here: is the current government prepared to promote a plastic tax? Would it be possible for a plastic tax to be one element when we try to solve this?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u16	Madam President! This proposal, the citizens' initiative to ban cosmetic products containing microplastics, must be supported, and also this debate, which has taken place, can be noted that there is indeed an order for this proposal. I agree with Mr Hassi, who said here earlier that it would be better if there were an EU-level approach. It would certainly also be the best policy for manufacturers of these cosmetic products, but it would be great if this could also be taken forward at national level on the basis of such a consensus. However, I note that the most sustainable solution to this plastic problem is precisely for recycling and then for avoiding the production and use of unnecessary plastics.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u17	Mr President! The initiative requires that we should have a law prohibiting the import, sale and manufacture of cosmetic products containing microplastics, and, as has been said here, we all agree that this direction must be taken, that this kind of legislation should be obtained for us. But what is also positive is that, at the moment, citizens also have a huge desire to recycle plastic and thus have a positive impact on the environment. The problem now, however, is that plastic recycling is not yet in the best possible way everywhere. I would also like to see this bill and we could make an even stronger contribution here to making it as easy as possible for any person who wants to influence, among other things, the recycling of plastic in all parts of Finland. Then there is the matter of plastic taxation: I personally very much welcome it and I am delighted if this issue is clarified in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u18	Madam President! It would have been important for the Environment Minister to have been present in this referral debate, but hopefully the messages will be received. I myself also support this citizens' initiative to ban microplastics in the field of cosmetics — of course, it is only 2% of the plastic that falls into the sea. The big thing that should also be put right is that our capital is still dumping a huge amount of dirty snow into the sea, regardless of how much plastic, rubber and so on goes along. We would also have an excellent opportunity to play a leading role in this reduction in plastic waste. Packages, whistles can be made today from other than plastic, so we should now take a leading role, for example, at European level, and also find a niche for our excellent factors, such as wood and this industry where the packages are
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u19	Madam President! Debate or no, but the conversation has been good, and it is appreciated that this kind of citizens' initiative is here in Parliament's reading. I personally particularly hope that account will be taken of Mr Hassi's view that we have harmful and deliberately nature-oriented plastic products, and I hope that those smaller than 5 mm will be considered. That is why I would like to express the hope that the committee, in the committee's deliberations, will form the impetus that will require the government to act on microplastics other than cosmetics, so that a legislative initiative can be prepared already in this period. In order to get this whole plastic issue under better control, the Committee now has a strong wish: broad consultation, form your views and require action from the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u20	Madam President! Here again, on the subject of water quality and human health, we cannot live on the back of future generations. The citizens' initiative to ban microplastics in cosmetics is important. The use of microplastics must be limited by legislation, especially as we know that microplastics are fully substitutable in cosmetics with other, non-harmful alternatives, which are abundant on the market. Sweden, for example, has already banned the use of microplastics in certain cosmetics products, as has Britain. I support the citizens' initiative and I hope that the government will take a quick look at Sweden, and it would certainly also be appropriate to look at how to tackle the microplastic issue further in the wider context of these cosmetic products.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u21	Madam President! I am also very much in favour of this citizens' initiative. It is quite startling that according to WWF’s worldwide report, about a bank card of microplastic accumulates in the human body within a week. In a year, this is 250 grams. That is an absurd amount, and when we do not even know what this microplastic to the human body, health, nature in general is doing, I am very much in favour of this being put into law. At the same time, I am also in favour, as a representative. Mr Myllykoski said in his own speech that the committee is even taking a broader view than the citizens' initiative that this plastic problem is being tackled more widely, that microplastics and plastic accumulations in water bodies and so on, and then, with the help of the effort and through it, Parliament is being forced to work actively to ensure that plastics are banned in all of it,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u22	I have three speeches to make here, Mrs Wallinheimo, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen and Mr Virolainen, and then we go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u23	Mr President! I too would like to thank the citizens' initiativeers for their good work, and just as many colleagues have said in their excellent speeches, on the other hand, more could be done. Microplastic is indeed found in textiles, car tires, paints and so on. In fact, the current European Chemicals Agency report, which aims to identify the limitation of microplastics added to alternative products, is a good first step here. I hope that this work will also be taken seriously by the European Parliament. Finally, Mr President, I also warmly support the efforts made in recent years to improve the efficiency of plastic recycling and reuse. And yet here we have something to catch up on. In order to tackle the plastic problem in reality, we need better and more consumer-friendly products, especially recycling solutions. A more efficient market and new applications are also needed for plastic waste and recycling plastics so that consumers can find these products in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u24	Mr President! As has been said here, the biggest litterers are elsewhere than in Finland, but we cannot, in spite of that, think that it is none of our business. All natural plastic waste produces microplastics over time due to mechanical degradation, and that is why we should expand this debate so that we can also talk about plastic and plastic recycling more widely, without underestimating the importance of this initiative at all. In fact, I think that Finnish expertise may even be the answer to this problem of microplastics. For example, we could improve the efficiency of waste recovery and clean-up, we could develop better water treatment and treatment techniques and, in particular, be a pioneer in the development of plastic substitutes. There would be great demand for these products globally now and also in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u25	Madam President! From that it is good to continue where Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen decided, namely Finnish expertise and research. We already have, if I remember correctly, two disputing people from the University of Tampere who have developed a biodegradable plastic substitute that can be used specifically in the cosmetics industry. I also understand that they have received support from Business Finland for the early stages of their product development, but they have also managed to raise external seed funding. So their idea is to first conquer the cosmetics market and then go to the food industry. This is not meant to happen in Finland at all, but it is also intended to conquer the world. It is precisely because such small innovations are being made in Finland that huge, global solutions can grow — a small Finland can be solving a global plastic problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u26	The debate is over, and so let us go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u27	Madam President! Again, I would like to thank the initiators, the 58,000 names in the initiative. The initiative is certainly to be welcomed. This calls for legislative measures to be taken to remove microplastics from cosmetic products, prohibit imports and prevent sales and manufacture in Finland. When replacing, biodegradable alternatives are available, that is certainly the direction to go. Microplastics are washed into water bodies and food chains, and ultimately to the top of the food chain, and people get it through fish and other foods, then through drinking water into their bodies. Some of the health effects are still unclear, but it is probably clear that the benefits of microplastics in the body are not at the moment — the harm is how much we do not know exactly yet. What is certain is that the time of departure, the time of decomposition, if at all, is extremely long. Apparently it will not be completely removed from the water in any time period, it will only be smaller and smaller. This problem is growing. Over the last 50 years, the use of plastic has grown twentyfold globally, and in the next 20 years it is expected that the use of plastic will continue to double. I believe that at the end of the last parliamentary term, or was it even on the side of this year, the plastic road map — yes, it did in the last parliamentary term, because parts of it have already been included in the government programme, and I thank the government for that. It is all right that the recommendations for action in the plastic road map have been taken into the Government Programme — government proposals are awaited. In order to make the use of plastics more rational: we must of course try to reduce the use, we must try to increase sorting, we must improve recycling and then introduce these innovations that can replace plastics. We have excellent expertise in Finland, for example in the forest industry and in the raw materials sector, where such biomaterials can be developed, and then plastic can be reduced. Now that we are talking about plastic, of course, it must be pointed out that no product should be unduly demonized. Plastic also has advantages, and in the food industry, for example, it can be difficult or even impossible to replace it in part. Plastic increases the shelf life of food, helps reduce food loss and is therefore necessary. But how we use it, how we recycle and act after it is used is essential. During the last parliamentary term, the report on food policy was discussed in Parliament, and it left me in particular with regard to water, which is also an indirect issue in this citizens' initiative. An interesting detail was that more bottled water is imported to Finland than bottled water is exported from Finland. It is interesting that water and bottled water should be imported to Finland, because, for example, here in Helsinki the water in Päijänne is cleaner than that imported from abroad. Cigarettes are one of the largest producers of microplastics. Representative Wallinheimo asked a written question in 2013, which shows that 5 billion cigarette butts are thrown into the environment in Finland every year. It does not say very much, but it does say that it is equivalent to one and a half feet [1.5 m] in the Senate Square, and it is a substance that remains as microplastics in the water. A good point of comparison in this cigarette butt case could be Japan, where cigarette butts, and no other garbage, in nature and in the environment, can be seen. Users use pocket ashtrays, which are like boxes the size of a film roll, in which they then put their cigarette butts, and then properly forward. Finally, Mr President, everyone can do a lot for themselves. Kaija and Ilkka Erkkilä, two Finns — environmental figures, could say — have collected 914500 cigarette butts from the environment in recent years, in addition to all the other rubbish they have done as volunteers. Everyone can take part in the Garbage Day movement, and the most important thing, of course, is not the garbage itself. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u28	Mr President! Microplastics are a threat to the environment and human health, and their access to nature and to human beings must be restricted by all means; good speeches have already been made here today. I would also like to join in thanking those who have launched the citizens' initiative and all those who have signed up for raising an important issue. The citizens' initiative proposes that the import, sale and manufacture of cosmetics containing microplastics in Finland should be prohibited. The Green Group warmly supports this citizens' initiative. As has already been mentioned, many Finnish manufacturers have already switched microplastics to biodegradable ingredients, but many products containing microplastics are imported. Many may not think that microplastic beads are present in many cosmetics and hygiene products — such as peelings, toothpastes, hair and shower gels and make-up — such as peeling and dressing, increasing mass, removing electrical or clumping and glittering. The product may contain hundreds of thousands of plastic beads that are transported with wastewater to watercourses. From there they end up as seafood and fish food, and at worst animals die when plastic particles block their digestion. This is all for nothing, because there are already substitute materials. The most common microplastic used in rinse-off cosmetics is polyethylene. For example, polyurethane and polymethyl methacrylate. These materials are known to cause human health damage. In addition, microplastic particles collect environmental poisons in water as much as a million times as in the surrounding water. Mr President! Microplastics also end up in the human body. We do not yet know how dangerous this is because of the harmful chemicals contained in plastic itself and the harmful substances collected by microplastics. According to researchers, microplastics are very scarcely transported outside the digestive tract and the chemical load is low. However, the data are based on the size class of plastic particles now known. Exposure to smaller plastic particles is not known because there are no suitable measurement methods for them. In nature, plastic breaks up into nanoplastics less than 0.001 millimetres. As Mr Multala said earlier, more research and information is needed on the harmful effects of microplastics on human health. Several countries have already banned microplastics in cosmetics, and the EU intends to ban the microplastics of cosmetics and detergents gradually by 2026. This year, the European Chemicals Agency took the initiative to limit the use of primary, deliberately added, microplastics by REACH. The initiative also covers important sources of primary microplastics other than cosmetics. The regulation could enter into force next year, the first year to ban micro beads in rinse-off cosmetics and detergents. It is very important that this issue is now being vigorously promoted at EU level as well. Mr President! Recommendations and trust in voluntary action by manufacturers are not enough to remove microplastics. We need a total ban on microplastics in cosmetics. And what is also to be welcomed is the speeches that have been made here to look at the plastic problem and the microplastic problem as a whole. As far as I can see, the implementation of the plastic road map, which has also been included in the government programme, provides a good basis for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u29	Mr President! Indeed, this citizens' initiative must be supported and, on the basis of this debate, we can also say that it enjoys broad support. I think it is very important that, when these citizens' initiatives are discussed, the minister concerned should be present in the debate because, even during this debate, there have been quite a few questions for the government and the Minister and I think it would also be good practice to appreciate this system of citizens' initiatives so that the Minister can take part in that debate. I hope that the Minister for the Environment will also receive greetings from here, that he has been missed here. The unfortunate fact is that only about 2% of the primary microplastic that ends up in the sea comes from these microplastics deliberately added to the hygiene products, such as micro beads of peeling substances. But, as has been said here, it is to be welcomed that these are indeed one of the most useless plastic products, but it is easy to replace them with other products. It is estimated that about 80% of all marine microplastics come from secondary sources, i.e. mainly from the break-up of different bags and packagings, and quite recently, according to a recent German survey, the majority of marine microplastics are caused by car tyres, which means that there are many other sources of this problem. These can be combated in general by reducing the consumption of plastics and also by increasing their recycling. It is not easy to quickly develop replacements for plastics in many locations. On the other hand, Finland is also a pioneer in the development of these biodegradable and non-fossil-based packaging products, and here we can really be at the forefront of innovation and also exporting this expertise elsewhere. The most widely used way of dealing with plastic waste in Europe is still energy incineration. It is estimated that 31% of all plastic waste will still end up in landfills and that 30% of all plastic waste will be collected for recycling, although the recycling rate varies widely between EU countries. The Christian Democrats parliamentary group visited the former Ekokem waste treatment plant in Riihimäki, which is now Fortum. Finnish companies, such as Fortum, have been at the forefront of the development of automated systems that are able to separate very small plastic particles into different plastic grades, thus enabling plastic to be reused. The problem is then the collection of plastic, for example, from households and also from industry and businesses, and it should be particularly invested in it. This Riihimäki, you can say, the most advanced sorting technology in the world, as well as, of course, our model of plastic collection by industry and households, should really be able to scale the whole of Finland and then try to spread it to the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u30	Mr President! The citizens' initiative to ban microplastics in cosmetics is very welcome. In cosmetics, microplastics can easily be replaced by environmentally friendly products and therefore the ban should not become a significant obstacle to the cosmetics industry or users. At the same time, however, the benefits of the ban would be significant. Once microplastics have entered the environment, it is practically impossible to get them out. In the end, plastics are used because plastic products are durable. However, sustainability is also a major problem, because the majority of plastics are our troubles for up to thousands of years. Plastics cause problems in nature. They make it difficult for animals to move, and many animals eat them. It is very alarming that it is estimated that as many as 90% of seabirds have plastic in their digestive system. So the water systems are already full of plastic, including microplastics. In 2016, the Ellen MacArthur Foundation and the World Economic Forum predicted that, if the current process continues, there would be more plastic in the seas than fish by 2050. That's a pretty terrible idea. In addition, the Finnish Environment Agency estimates that at present 10% of plastic waste floating in the world’s seas is microplastic. Since microplastic is so small, it usually ends up in the body of fish and other aquatic animals. According to a Swedish study, microplastics can even end up in fish brains and thus alter their behavior. It is therefore possible that plastics will eventually end up on human plates through fish, and the effects on humans are unknown. The problem with microplastics is that there is little research on the potential harm caused by microplastics. If microplastics can change the behaviour of fish, they will most likely also have other effects on different ecosystems up to human beings. We must take the plastic problem seriously and protect our environment so that future generations can also enjoy clean nature. And there's a lot we can do. One good indication that citizens want to make a difference is the reduction of plastic bags, which has given us good results that if we really do, it will also work. I am very much in favour of this citizens' initiative and I hope that it will not only bring about a ban on microplastics in cosmetics but also other follow-up measures to reduce the plastic problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u31	Mr President! Katariina Rantanen, Managing Director for Cosmetics, has said this about microplastics: as long as regulation does not work properly, increased consumer awareness is the only way to influence. His company developed an application using a barcode to tell what the product contains and alerts if plastic is involved. Without such innovations, it is therefore difficult for the ordinary consumer to explain mainly Latin product descriptions of cosmetics. Today, however, people are interested in the environmental impact of their products. They do not want to overload water bodies and cause damage to other species of life. Consumer responsibility has therefore created demand for plastic-free cosmetics, and plastic-free cosmetics are increasingly popular. This is a great thing. According to the Finnish Environment Agency, international experience shows that it is legislation that is an effective way to reduce microplastics. As has been said here, the EU is finally preparing to limit the use of microplastics in cosmetics, detergents and fertilisers. In the first phase, cosmetic products containing small plastic granules and micro beads of detergents are banned from the skin. Other restrictions should enter into force gradually by 2026. Once they're in the environment, they can't get microplastics out of there. They are widely spread to soil, inland waterways and seas. They have a devastating effect on ecosystems, such as the reproduction of fish and the endocrine activity of aquatic organisms. Not all drawbacks and mechanisms of action are known yet. Indeed, we in Finland have improved the state of water bodies in recent years, and we should now also safeguard this good development. I see that this ban on microplastics in cosmetics would be one step in this work. Mr President! As has also been said here in the debate, this proposal for an initiative does not solve the problem of microplastics in quantitative terms, but I think it has value because it shows the right direction. In cosmetics, the change is also easier to achieve, as in this area it is possible to replace microplastics with completely safe, environmentally-friendly alternatives. These materials are already on the market and more are being created all the time. At present, for example, swan-marked cosmetic products are such that they do not contain any micro-plastics, which is, admittedly, a technically possible change. As the example I mentioned at the beginning shows, plastic-free cosmetics and product development also create new business. In other words, the product development of plastics-replacement materials and plastic-free cosmetics is a business for which there is also demand worldwide. This reform is therefore not only necessary but also profitable.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u32	Mr President! As has been said here, cosmetic microplastics are quite a small part of what goes into microplastics for wastewater. The other thing that goes with them is clothes. In view of how to reduce the microplastic emissions of clothing, when the garment is made, if washed well at the factory, large filters, good filters, would be used, the majority of microplastics would be left in the first wash at the factory and could then be recycled better. This would be important if we were to move forward on this too. These marine microplastics come a lot from cigarette butts, drinking bottles, plastic bags and these. It should be noted that cigarette butts become more microplastics in the world’s seas than plastic bags — always the most barking of plastic bags, but cigarette butts bring a lot. When it is said that there are so many of them in the seas and there should be fewer of them when certain countries drive them, this is up to us people. Everyone should understand that no garbage, no plastic or anything is thrown into nature. We would have far fewer problems if people just realized that nothing is thrown into nature. Well, then the garbage that has been collected, that plastic waste, has been exported to China throughout the years, including from Europe and Finland through Europe, but what happened when China no longer accepted it? It was only then that it was discovered whether more plastic should be recycled, whether whistles or tops should be banned. Before this, nothing really happened until someone else's trouble with the plastics. Let's do things like this in advance, not when we have to.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u33	Mr President! It has already been pointed out that microplastics are also introduced into the environment from other sources than laundry with wastewater or that people are washing and that cosmetics microplastics are transported to the sewers via wastewater. In fact, it has been studied that sewage treatment plants are so advanced today that they are already removing most of the micro-waste, or even 99%. However, I am very much in favour of this citizens' initiative because the introduction of microplastics with bathwater is a problem, particularly in sparsely populated areas, where property has its own filtering system, for example. After all, there is no cleaning up of the water in the same way as in these advanced sewage treatment plants. As Mr Räsänen said, transport is in fact the largest source of microplastic in cities today. I myself took the initiative a couple of years ago in the city of Helsinki to pay more attention to this. Thus, for example, tires of cars and bicycles, even the soles of human shoes are rubbed so much microplastic that it is the main source of microplastic in urban conditions, and this should be taken into consideration. It has now been done that, in this year's time, Helsinki has started an international pioneer project with the municipalities of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area and Lahti, for example, and the joint municipal authority with HSY, to explore and determine whether it is possible to filter the Hölevesi microplastic. This is a very forward-looking and, indeed, a really fine research project that is being carried out here in many different ways as a collaboration. In the north of Pasila is built such a filthy water filtration pool that organically filters microplastic particles before they reach Haaganpur and then into nature and the sea. So the waters are directed from rainwater drains to a shallow basin with such a filter layer at the bottom, with a crumb-biocarbon combination, and then it filters. A dense willow is planted in it, which also binds up impurities, and through it the water of the hooligans flows into the brook Maunula. This is really an important point of view to detect in this microplastic debate, which is still a bit of a drag behind this microplastic from cosmetics and clothing, when today the source is traffic.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u34	Madam President! The citizens' initiative under discussion to ban microplastics in cosmetics brings us to this Chamber the concerns of over 58,000 signatories about our environment, our water systems and people. Over the past few years, we have increasingly gained knowledge and understanding of the drawbacks of plastic. Many of us, including myself, have needed a personal experience in this understanding. When you start recycling plastics yourself, you also wake up to how much plastic waste is generated in your household. When you see it with your own eyes, it becomes concrete many times. It is great that more and more of us are not buying a plastic bag in the store and, with our own choices, are making a contribution to our common future. Microplastics are a challenge because of their invisibility. Perhaps it is an invisible and frightening threat of our time. What we don't see with our own eyes, it's easy to feel like something that's not there. These plastic beads or granules, which are less than 5 mm solid in water, are intentionally added to many products — including cosmetics, which is the subject of this citizens' initiative. At the same time, when this citizens' initiative on microplastic cosmetics was submitted to Parliament last spring, the European Chemicals Agency took the initiative to limit primary microplastics. This proposed legislation by the Agency includes the prohibition of microplastics in cosmetic products already in the first stages of entry into force from 2020. The proposal is now under discussion and the related public consultation will end on 20 September. This proposal by the European Chemicals Agency therefore responds to the desire of this citizens' initiative to ban microplastics in cosmetics products, and this initiative is already progressing this autumn. Already in 2015, Cosmetics Europe issued a recommendation that microplastic cosmetics should be phased out by 2020. Already between 12 and 17, the use of microplastics in cosmetics in Europe decreased by 97.6%, i.e. around 4250 tonnes of microplastics were replaced or removed from the products. The European cosmetics sector is committed to the recommendations of its sector and is prepared to give up the use of microplastic beads in its products. It therefore appears that the European cosmetics sector could be completely microplastic-free in 2020, as is the objective of the Recommendation. The concern about microplastics is real and should be taken seriously. The total plastic is a widely used material due to its properties. The global production of plastic has grown 20-fold since the 1960s and is expected to continue to grow and even double over the next 20 years. The problem is that plastic ends up in the environment, water bodies and food chains. Mr President! The recycling potential of plastics remains largely unexploited. The demand for recycled plastic currently accounts for only 6% of the demand for plastic in Europe. For the time being, plastic replacement materials are limited and their potential and characteristics are not fully understood. Less than 30% of plastic waste generated in the EU is collected for recycling. A great deal of work still needs to be done in this sector. The plastic problem is common, although the biggest sources of plastic emissions are far from the world. The Rinte Government Programme takes environmental issues seriously and also the plastic problem. One of the objectives of the Government Programme is therefore to improve the efficiency of plastic recycling. In line with the national plastic road map, a reduction in the use of microplastics will also be promoted. So plastic is the problem of our time. The problem is especially when it is in nature. But is there also a possibility in plastic? The recovery of plastic waste and packaging solutions of the future can be issues where Finnish expertise could be used and exported more to the world in the future. All the same, I thank you for this citizens' initiative, whose message is important and worthy of support. We need to take microplastics seriously. Responsibility for the environment and the future lies with us all.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u35	Now, an hour has passed on this matter and, as agreed, the debate and the proceedings will be suspended. This matter will continue to be dealt with at this sitting once other matters have been dealt with in the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u36	We will now resume the debate on item 3 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u37	Madam President! A plastic-free life in modern society is likely to be quite impossible in practice. Plastic is unquestionably one of the most durable packaging materials in the light of current information. To name just a few, for example, packages of beverages, food and goods are usually quite full of plastic, and many cosmetic products also contain plastic granules, which, fortunately, can be replaced. The good durability of plastic means that, unfortunately, it does not break down very easily in nature. When it ends up on earth or in the oceans, it is often before long shredded and broken down into microplastics. As time goes by, this plastic is transported with food to animals as well as to humans, fish, dogs, children, and adults. It is therefore quite possible that, for example, fish purchased in a nearby store may contain some kind of microplastic. It goes without saying that in order to solve this wretched problem we need concrete and international solutions. I believe that this citizens' initiative is an excellent and necessary opening-up to this issue. We Finns need to work for cleaner waters together on the front, and we need the whole international community involved: the EU, India, China, the United States and Africa. I am sure we all agree in this Chamber that it is our duty to leave nature to the next generations in a better condition than it was when we got it. From this point of view, environmental protection is quite literally also the defence of our country. This is a very important task and initiative, and I support it. One small act at a time, we go together for the better.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u38	Madam President! The citizens' initiative proposes to introduce a law prohibiting the import, sale and manufacture of cosmetic products containing microplastics. Microplastics are small particles of plastic material, less than five millimeters in size. They are often used in cosmetic products to produce a cleansing, peeling or grinding effect. In Finland, many manufacturers have already replaced microplastics with harmless alternatives, which are widely available on the market, but many products containing microplastics are still being imported to Finland. Sweden, Great Britain, the United States, New Zealand, Ireland and Taiwan, among others, have already banned or in the near future banned microplastics. The problem with microplastics is that they do not break down but end up in watercourses through cleaning plants.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u39	Madam President! Today we are dealing with a citizens' initiative on a very important issue. It is good that this issue has now been largely addressed at EU level, but we should also have this debate here in Finland. Microplastics are harmful to the environment and it is quite true that microplastics are not limited to distant seas, but are also present in our national pride — clean Finnish lakes, for example. Microplastics can pass through the food chain to people and the problem is that we do not yet know enough about their impact on health, for example. Of course, cosmetics are not the only way to get microplastics into the environment, but it is clear that a great leap has to be made in product development and we have to get rid of microplastics. We also have solutions from our own guarantees through new innovations in the bioeconomy, i.e. from the Finnish forest. Fortunately, EU legislation has been amended in this respect and micro-plastics have gradually been phased out. While there is time for this ban, it must be rejoiced that this matter has also begun to be pushed forward on larger shoulders. Indeed, a player of EU size is making a great deal of difference. With this ban, it is possible for the European Union to prevent up to 30,000 tonnes of microplastics from entering the environment every year, i.e. 30,000 tonnes of microplastics. In the long term, the importance will increase. Madam President! I believe that this is a good example of what we will achieve when we move towards environmental change at EU and international level. Finland must play its part, but major changes can be achieved through cooperation. Of course, there is a lot of work to be done with regard to microplastics in other product development too, but steps are being taken in the right direction to bear the concerns it deserves about the environment and nature.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u40	Mr President! Indeed, plastic does not belong in nature. There has been a good debate here on the citizens' initiative, and it must be said here that plastics really pose a serious threat to the world's waters, to nature and possibly also to people because plastics are so common and, above all, plastics are long-lived. We really need diverse, effective measures to prevent microplastics flowing into nature and also into our food chain. Forty tons of microplastic comes into the Baltic Sea every year, and that is a very large amount. I warmly support the citizens' initiative. I asked for a ban on microplastics in cosmetics, Minister for the Environment. From a brick town in the last parliamentary term. He then said that there was no national action at that stage. Mr Tiilikainen said that he is making a strong contribution at EU level, and he said that he is also taking action at national level and starting to make a plastic road map. For that, thank you to him — that road map is very worthy, and the present government must take it forward. But I myself replied to Mr Tiilikainen's answer that Finland should not be a skier after him, but a pioneer. Indeed, I was already in favour of a separate ban on microplastics in cosmetics in Finland. And now I think it is important that this legislation is adopted. Here Mr Multala made an excellent point that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection could take a broader view of this issue of microplastics to see if there is enough research in Finland at EU level. It is worth having extensive international cooperation in this regard. We will certainly send our best wishes to the Budget Committee that the R & D efforts will reach the level that all parties said together before the elections. There are members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection here, so I hope that this will indeed be the case. I'm sure we have time to deal with this. Mr President! When I asked about microplastics during Question Time, the then Finance Minister, Petteri Orpo, said that he had started a study at the Ministry of Finance on a possible microplastic tax. At the same time, the Commission, for example, had raised the issue of microplastics at EU level. I understand that the Ministry of Finance has carried out this investigation. As an old member of the tax division, I understand that this is not an easy matter, but I hope that this will also be considered. We have to tax what we want less, and that is what microplastic is. As far as the government is concerned, I would like to see someone here to answer or in some way to get the government's views on this matter. Is it possible that the government would promote a plastic tax? That's one of the measures mentioned in that plastic road map. I also know that last season the piloting of the plastic packaging deposit system was started. As I understand it, it is still going on and I do not know — at least there are no decisions in the public domain — how we are going to proceed. I hope that Parliament will also receive an answer from the Minister for the Environment or from the whole government. I believe that the plastic tax could also contribute to steering consumption towards domestic bio-based solutions and thus also support the domestic bioeconomy. I believe that awareness of the drawbacks of plastic has spread rapidly, and perhaps such support for taxation could be found. But, President-in-Office, when we talk about plastic, it is good to say that plastic is still an important part of our everyday life — in food, health care, in many of our everyday lives, there is no substitute for plastic. Research is being carried out and product development, but it is certainly not the intention of Parliament to ban plastic, but to take action not to drain plastic into the environment, and this is really important to say. It should also be noted that Finland runs in the front groups of plastic recycling, the front line, because already one quarter of plastic packaging in Finland goes into circulation and Finland is no longer allowed to take plastic to landfill. Yet we have so much to do, for example, in this recycling of plastics. Even in the city of Helsinki, not all housing companies have separate plastic sorting, for example, so something has to be done here. I am very pleased that during the previous government we had an active Minister for the Environment and also at EU level, i.e. with the EU decision, for example, disposable plastic cutlery, cotton slips, whistles and cocktails have been banned since 2021, and this is a very important issue. President, I would like to raise the issue which perhaps has not yet been strongly raised in this debate: we need a change in the way in which we use it. When we talk about plastic, about 95 percent of the plastic used is one that is used only once and then thrown away. So if you have to grab something, it's this disposable culture and that we can get the materials around. The circular economy was one of the strong projects of Prime Minister Sipilä's Government, part of the leading project, and I hope that the Committee on the Environment will also see whether this government will do enough for Finland as a whole to speed up the circular economy. Of course, I hope that you will also look at this disposable plastic issue, what we could do about it. President-in-Office of the Council. - (DE) Mr President, I would like to say that it is important that action is taken at European level; it is important that global action is taken — this plastic is a global problem, and the European Union must also be a pioneer in this. I particularly welcome the fact that the European Chemicals Agency is currently working on alternatives to the use of microplastics added to products, and the Commission is indeed looking for ways to limit the microplastic emissions of plastic products such as textiles, paints and tyres. This is exactly the job we have to do. Finally, as a strong promoter of public health, I would like to say that each of us can do something. Yes, it must be said that when we know how dangerous tobacco is — yet again, Mr Kiuru has said it very well here: tobacco is not only dangerous when it comes to smoking, but where it comes from. When tobacco is crushed into the wild, 4 billion tummies a year come to Finland’s nature, 680,000 kilos of waste, and when you look at the waste from coastal cities, between 30 and 40% of the waste comes from tobacco. Last but not least, we could look at this in Parliament too — is there something we could encourage and reduce this littering? As we go around Europe or around the world, we see countries where littering is much less, and in that sense I hope that this will be looked at. And last but not least, we do indeed have very little information on the impact of microplastics, above all on how it affects human health today and in the future. That is something on which I really hope there will be a great deal of research. Finally, as Minister of Education, I started a joint study of the Baltic Sea with regard to the Baltic Sea countries, and I hope that the current Minister of Education could see what education ministers and research institutes could do at EU level in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u41	Mr President! I would like to thank those who have taken the initiative for an important opening of the debate. Like the initiativers, the SDP is also very concerned about the littering of the environment and water bodies. A particular threat to the cleanliness of the environment is microplastics, which cause serious problems for water bodies and their ecosystems when ground plastic pollution is carried everywhere. According to one study, as has already been noted here, plastic pollution is passed into the human body about 5 grams per week, i.e. a bank card. The main reason is in drinking water. In Finland, drinking water has been well cleaned, but still Finland has the most littered beaches in the Baltic Sea. It is sad that plastic pollution has also been found in clean Finnish waters. It is almost invisible and hard to see with ordinary eyes. For us Finns, that is a serious matter, because we live in a land of thousands of lakes and we also have a lot of coastlines at sea. For example, small pieces of plastic enter the body of fish constantly and thus into the human body through food — and there is no evidence of how the plastic eaten by fish can affect humans. So the plastic problem of water systems is not in any distant reality, but close to the everyday lives of all of us Finns. It is important that the cosmetics industry has also taken into account the need to protect water bodies, to which the initiatives also refer. Cosmetics Europe has made a recommendation to phase out microplastic beads used in cosmetics by 2020 and has had a lot of positive effects. The use of microplastics has been significantly reduced and the recommendation was made despite the fact that, according to different sources, cosmetics account for only 0.1 to 1.5% of microplastic waste in water bodies. However, there is still a lot to be done, because there are no signs of a reduction in the use of plastics, quite the opposite. Plastic production has grown 20-fold worldwide since 1964. This has called for a broader debate and I support it. This theme is also strongly associated with Finnish jobs and the export industry. Plastic is an important raw material for many industries and it is certainly not easy to replace it everywhere. However, alternatives must be found, otherwise the fragile ecosystems of our world will not be able to withstand this burden. In fact, Finnish cosmetics manufacturers have acted as pioneers in finding alternatives, as plastic beads are increasingly replaced with biodegradable products. In the Government Programme of Prime Minister Rinte, the plastic problem has also been taken into account by means of a record that enhances the recycling of plastic and implements the proposals of the plastic road map. The proposals of the plastic road map also address the microplastic problem in particular. This entry provides a good starting point for the work that now needs to be done to promote reuse and the closed round of raw materials in industry. Finnish companies already have good know-how and environmental awareness. Now we just have to take it to the world. This way we can also maintain jobs in Finland, take care of exports and keep them running. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u42	Mr President! True Finns are often accused of being an anti-climate and anti-environmental party. However, the truth is different: we are pursuing a sensible central climate policy aimed at a cleaner environment and more sustainable development without causing undue harm to Finland and Finland to the results achieved. For example, this citizens' initiative to ban microplastics in cosmetics products is in line with the environmental programme for Finns, which clearly states that Finland needs to pay attention to plastic waste from water and to access to the environment for plastics and microplastics in general. Therefore, the requirements of the citizens' initiative are in line with the basic Finnish policy. I support this initiative. Microplastics are a serious environmental hazard. A citizens' initiative aimed at prohibiting the import, sale and manufacture of cosmetic products containing microplastics in Finland is to be welcomed, as these plastics must be brought to an end in water and animal health. The introduction of microplastic into water bodies is a global problem, for which Finland has also received its share. The use of microplastics has already been restricted by legislation in the pioneer countries, and I think it is time Finland joined this group. While our drinking water is the world's leading source of cleanliness and our food security is at a good level in Finland, it does not mean that there is no room for improvement. The effects of plastics on health are not yet known very much, but they are certainly not doing good, that is for sure. Especially small animals, and even larger animals, plastic can easily cause serious harm or even death. I sincerely hope that the Rinte Government will take action to limit the introduction of microplastics into water bodies and animals and humans. In his speech, Mr Lehto also commented that people should not burden nature at all with littering. We can all think about our own ways in everyday life, what we could do better. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u43	Mr President! The ban on microplastics in cosmetics is an excellent citizens' initiative and is very welcome. The use of microplastics in cosmetic products has already been banned, for example, in Sweden, the British Isles, and there are restrictions in the United States. In other words, we are moving forward across the whole of the European Union by common decision or in each country individually — the main thing is that this is going to be all right. It is quite clear that this is a risk-taking exercise for human health, because when microplastics enter water and sea, then we get them into our own bodies through fish and drinking water. By eating and drinking these products, microplastics, we get ourselves. It should be borne in mind that Finland has already made reasonable progress in the recycling of plastics. If I remember correctly, it is about a quarter of the plastics that we can recover in modern times and today. I was glad my municipality of residence showed up here some time ago in a plastic collection container. For example, when the washing liquids of the car’s windscreens are bought in plastic canisters and those canisters are spinning in the corner of the warehouse, I persistently thought that on one beautiful day the day will come when these plastic canisters will be collected, and that container came so that I could get a huge pile of those plastic canisters out of the corner of the warehouse for recycling and recovery. That's an excellent thing. This procedure must be applied everywhere in Finland. It is obvious from this point of the citizens' initiative, in relation to these cosmetic substances and microplastics, that microplastics should be banned altogether, because they go directly into the water and thus into the natural cycle — and in general into the sea. The other day there was a show on television about how the oceans, the Atlantic and In the Pacific Ocean, terrible plastic plates swim, and then as they break down in the sea, they gradually become the microplastics that then end up in the food chain one day at a human table. There was also a program recently on the radio where an expert suspected that microplastics were not directly dangerous to man, but I dare to disagree with it. Every piece of microplastic in the human body — as it gradually accumulates, more and more of it — is certainly dangerous to health on a large scale, certainly. And Finland has handled its own business well. For example, through groundwater, we do not get microplastics into ourselves when we drink. Most Finns drink clean groundwater, and there are no such substances in groundwater. But at the same time it is also an incentive for us Finns to take care of our own business, so that all the plastic that is used, either recycled or burned through the transport of waste into energy, district heating and electricity in a power plant — it is no longer driven by a bench — a part that has not been recycled. In other words, we must continue along this path, and the micro-plastics must be removed, because that is a clear health risk for all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u44	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The citizens' initiative on microplastic cosmetics was submitted to Parliament last spring. Thank you to those who have taken the initiative for active action and for raising an important issue. There is a need for a law prohibiting the import, sale and manufacture of cosmetic products containing microplastics in Finland. Intentionally added microplastics pose a risk to the environment and human health. Microplastics can remain in the environment for a very long time and spread widely to soil and water bodies. Unfortunately, the number of microplastics has increased rapidly. However, many Finnish cosmetics manufacturers have already replaced microplastic beads with biodegradable alternatives, but many cosmetics products containing microplastics are still being imported. Microplastics are completely replaceable in cosmetics with non-harmful alternatives and there are plenty of them on the market. At the same time, the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) took the initiative to limit the use of primary or intentionally added microplastics by REACH. This bill includes a ban on microplastics in cosmetics products as early as the beginning of the entry into force, as early as the beginning of 20 for micro beads. The proposal is currently being heard. ECHO's draft law responds to the citizens' initiative' desire to ban microplastics in cosmetics, and this is progressing during the autumn. The bill also covers other significant sources of primary or intentionally added microplastic. The management of secondary microplastics, including plastic products as a result of fragmentation and wear and tear and synthetic textile washing, is more complex. It is therefore necessary to increase research and monitoring data on sources of microplastics and their impact on the environment and health. In 2018, Finland's National Plastic Road Map was drawn up under the leadership of the Ministry of the Environment, which includes proposals for measures to address the challenges related to plastics. One last comment on the Environment Committee's debate with the Estonian committee responsible. The objective of the non-plastic Baltic Sea was raised and this objective should be promoted swiftly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u45	Mr President! I would like to thank the authors of the initiative — this citizens' initiative raises an important and topical issue. We should all be concerned about the invisible and serious threat posed by the increased number of microplastics in and around our waters. According to a WWF report published this summer, a person receives an estimated amount of microplastic in his body over a week.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u46	Mr President, värderade talman! It is gratifying to hear how united these condemning speeches on microplastics and nanoplastics have been. Well, that's clear. As noted, the European Chemicals Agency, ECHA, has taken an initiative at the beginning of the year to ban these primary microplastics in 2020. This citizens' initiative responds very well to this legislative change. One third of all the plastic produced in the world, according to estimates, ends up in the natural environment and drains into water — especially these micro- and nanoplastics caused by UV radiation and mechanical grinding. It has now been said here that more research is also needed. There is more information about marine environments. It is known, as has been said here, that plastics accumulate harmful substances and even toxic chemicals that continue to enter organisms, and thus permanent organic compounds can expose the entire food chain and also end up in animals and humans. But freshwater research: It is still incomplete and there is no overall picture of the adverse effects. But, of course, it is assumed that fresh water organisms can also be exposed to plastic damage. These are the details I want to highlight, which we already know. The University of Uppsala has studied, for example, perch chicks who eat this nano- and microplastic. Their growth is weakening. This leads to a weakening of the sense of smell. They cannot smell the threatening beast, such as the pike that eats it, and thus it accumulates in the pike. And this has been shown to cause the stocks of perch and pike to shrink. According to German studies, it is still known from Bayreuth University that even earthworms contain microplastics. In their studies, French researchers have found that there are between 3 and 10 tonnes of microplastics found annually in rainwater in the Greater Paris area — a huge amount. Studies at King’s College in London show that plastic particles in the air pose a health risk to human breathing: dirty water evaporates and releases plastic into the air. So more research is still needed. After all, Finland aims to increase research and monitoring data at EU level, including from sources of microplastics and their routes and impacts on the environment and human health. It would be important to develop sewage treatment in order to reduce water emissions from microplastics. Emissions of primary plastics from this rinse-off cosmetics and detergents in the EU are about one fifth of the use of plastic products. Although this ECHA initiative is progressing, at the same time I would like to say that this citizens' initiative is very welcome and I support it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u47	Mr President! Thank you very much to the authors and signatories of the citizens' initiative, and also to this Chamber, which has had an excellent debate on this important issue. I admit that I am not an expert in this field, but while listening to this debate, I have said that there is enormous expertise here, knowledge of this issue, its various effects and, in particular, the harmful effects it has on nature in this way. I therefore hope that this initiative, and then this debate, will lead the committee to make a bold and good, broad and positive proposal to us here in the Chamber so that we can move forward. And, of course, I hope that no Brussels will then put the brakes on, as is often the case here, unfortunately. At national level, making these decisions is not always simple. There is a need for a broad basis, but in this case there is a need for broad sympathies and influence from beyond our borders. Mr President! In this context, it is also appropriate to send greetings to the Government that investment in product development and research should also be made in this respect — both in relation to this problem and in bringing to the market the replacement products needed to combat plastics. In other words, the Government, bring funds to stimulate Finnish research and product development even more rapidly than it is today. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u48	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u49	Madam President! Japan is the third largest economy in the world and an important partner between Finland and the EU. That is why this strategic partnership agreement is important for both the EU and Japan. The agreement is not only important for trade between our countries, but it also supports and strengthens the global package of agreements on world trade, which is particularly important for Finland and other similar small and export dependent countries. That is why this agreement is important to us. Many Finnish companies operate in Japan and many Japanese companies operate in Finland. Investment is carried out on both sides and on the other hand in different sectors, which is beneficial for both countries. Japan is not only an important trading partner for Europe, but also a special partner for Finland. This year is the 100th anniversary of Finland's diplomatic relations with Japan, and cooperation between our countries is perhaps closer than ever, not only politically and commercially, but also between Finnish and Japanese people. Many Finnish educational institutions have student exchanges with Japan. Each year 250,000 Japanese tourists visit Finland. Finnair will open its fifth direct flight route to Japan in the winter when it starts flying to Sapporo. Other direct flights go to Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya and Fukuoka. There are more flights from Helsinki a day to Tokyo than to Mariehamn. Many Finns are interested in Japanese culture, and many Japanese are interested in Finnish culture. Tove Jansson and Moomins are very popular, and a Moomin world has been opened near Tokyo. Marimekko, Iittala and other Finnish design are also incredibly popular in Japan, as well as Finnish classical music, such as Jean Sibelius. This is something to be proud of. Japanese and Finns are also associated with outdoor recreation. Last Friday, the Finnish-Friends Group of the Japanese Parliament visited Parliament under the chairmanship of Mrs Mori. I myself have the honour of chairing the Japan friendship group in Parliament, and during this parliamentary term, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, among other things, is going on a committee trip to Japan. Cooperation between Finland and Japan is important and this cooperation and trade agreement between the EU and Japan can be further deepened. In addition, the agreement strengthens the package of agreements in the international trading system, which is very important for Finland. Finally, I would also like to congratulate the EU Commissioner, Cecilia Malmström, who has brought these negotiations to a finish on the EU side. Closer cooperation will benefit both the EU and Japan.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u50	Mr President, värderade talman! This was a very good speech from Mr Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u51	Madam President! As a great friend of Japan, it is a pleasure to speak on this issue and all the cooperation between the EU and Japan and between Finland and Japan is to be welcomed. We have a lot of things in common, although of course there are a lot of factors that separate us. Firstly, the age structure and population pyramid in Finland and Japan are very similar. We can see how Japan handles matters, what decisions they make and therefore try to resolve matters, for example in social and health matters. On the Environment Committee: Mr Löfström mentioned a future committee trip, and in 2012 I remember the Environment Committee visited Japan for the last time. Indeed, there is much to learn there and there is much to learn there, and their attitude towards the environment is exemplary in many respects, which was also evident in that debate on citizens' initiatives. If you take an example of tourism, then the Japanese are people who appreciate good manners, cleanliness, silence — things that we too appreciate and can appreciate even more. If tourism cooperation and Japanese tourists are made available to Finland, then surely they are the kind of target group that has money available and who can behave with respect for the environment and people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u52	Madam President! It is absolutely excellent that this agreement has been reached, and it is worth noting that this is a typical mixed agreement which promotes common interests between both parties, namely trade and other forms of cooperation between the European Union and its Member States and Japan. It is worth remembering how important Japan is to Finland. It is an important trading partner for us, and my home country, for example, is currently taking many forestry products directly to Japan, including the woodworking industry. It is sad in itself that Stora Enso is about to close down the Kite sawmill, from which sawn timber went specifically to the Japanese woodworking industry, which is building high-quality, local wooden houses. It is in such an environment as Japan's extremely safe house, because earthquakes are more commonplace and there are so often earthquakes, and wooden houses are the houses that can cope with the difficult situation if one comes up. But in any case, this agreement is extremely good and I commend the excellent speech made just now by Mr Löfström. Then the illustration where Mr Löfström well described how Finland has good air connections to Japan, even more flights than to Mariehamn — but we can comfort the respected MP Löfström by the fact that Åland is still an important part of Finland for us and our cooperation will certainly continue. The only thing I personally have had to worry about is how I'm doing in Mariehamn's IFK football, but it seems to be doing well — that everything is actually going to be better.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u53	Mr President! As a member of the Japan Friendship Group of the Parliament, I too had the honour last week to meet the delegation of the Japan Parliament's Finland-Friendship Group and the Japanese MPs, and one of the things I remember was that they told me that Finnish technology was in use in the cleaning work of Fukushima, among others. In fact, today we have an annual report from the State Audit Office on this agenda later, which draws attention to the fact that Finland has not kept up with these cleantech objectives — and in this regard, ass bridge is now in this situation in Japan, because it is now the case that if we invest in clean technology in Finland, then we will also create a springboard for business exports on our own. For example, in Japan we can see quite a large market for Finnish clean technology companies and Finnish expertise in this area. In other words, this kind of cooperation between Finland and Japan for example in this cleantech or clean technology promotion is very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u54	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u55	Madam President! I will continue with the same theme as Mr Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto. This cleantech issue is highlighted in this annual report of the Audit Office. Just a few chapters: Public procurement amounts to EUR 35 billion per year, two thirds of which are procurement by municipalities and joint municipal authorities. These are figures so important that it is relevant to Finnish business life. If these public procurements are made in such a way that this cleantech know-how and demand is growing, it will make and enable reference to Finnish companies and thus export opportunities. This issue is raised here in the annual report. Experience with the sustainable development budget has been gained by a couple of budgets. That's an ambitious project. There is not much international comparison; on the contrary, people may come from abroad to see how it is done. This budgeting for sustainable development, cleantech and such public purchasing know-how should certainly be given increasing attention in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u56	Madam President! This annual report takes due account of the major issues of both economic and ecological sustainability of our time and also takes good account of the digitalisation of the administration. I am particularly pleased that the Annual Report highlighted the importance of group reporting as part of a more accurate understanding of public finances. This same thinking would also be hoped to be seen at municipal level when discussing economic realities. The preparation of the State’s consolidated balance sheet would be justified as it would be the solution for a better understanding of the economy. This would make the perception and management of state property in a large picture much clearer. In the development of reporting, it would also be important to promote the transparency of all business aid granted, including in loans granted through the State guarantee portfolio. Mr President! On the one hand, I appreciate the fact that the annual report reminds us of the importance of consistency between policy recommendations in different policy areas. The left hand really needs to know what the right hand is doing. It seems crazy that, in line with the principles of sustainable development, we are seeking to reduce harmful environmental emissions, but at the same time we are supporting peat production, for example, with a considerable tax advantage. In particular, inefficient and environmentally harmful business subsidies should be screened out and their appropriateness called into question, just as the spirit of this annual report shows us here. In my view, there would be an urgent need for an intersectoral, coherent evaluation which the annual report calls for.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u57	Madam President! The goal of Juha Sipilä's Board of Directors was to promote public cleantech procurement and thus to make Finland a pioneer in cleantech and bio- and circular economy. Unfortunately, however, the government's objectives were not met. As Mr Kiuru has already pointed out, EUR 35 billion is spent on public procurement in Finland annually, or approximately 17 per cent of the country's GDP. These public procurements can provide a good springboard for domestic export-driven cleantech companies on the international market, as a large part of the turnover of Finnish cleantech companies becomes exports and often the challenge of cleantech business is to turn innovations into profitable business. It is good to remember that the 2014 EU Directive and the Procurement Act already allow environmental criteria to be taken into account in public procurement. Unfortunately, however, procurement is currently weak, especially in the municipal sector. The State's EUR 35 billion annual purchasing pool could provide a very strong lever, while contributing to the achievement of Finland's international sustainable development goals, and in particular climate change objectives, would also provide a basis for new exports in the growing cleantech sector. Support for growing companies is particularly important because growing companies need these references to internationalise. I therefore warmly support the annual report's proposal to favour cleantech, clean technology solutions in procurement, which aim to solve and prevent not only local but also global environmental problems. Mr President! Increasing the sustainability of public procurement is currently held back by a lack of knowledge, knowledge and human resources. It is often unclear to public sector decision-makers what products and services are sustainable and how difficult it is to compare procurements. The inclusion and scoring of sustainability criteria in competitive tendering is also genuinely difficult for many operators. For this reason, clear criteria and a legal basis for sustainable procurement will be needed to support and facilitate the work of decision-makers in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u58	Madam President! I would now like to highlight two parts of this annual report: First of all, this point in public cleantech procurement, which has already been addressed here. In other words, the key to this point and, above all, to our entire public procurement know-how is to increase basic purchasing skills. These processes are still too weak. We do not have enough skills, and this has actually been a problem in the public sector for a long time, for years, I would say even decades. It is important that we really invest in this knowledge at the municipal level as well as in the state administration. As is stated here, we have not succeeded in achieving the objectives of the Sipilä Government, which means that the result of cleantech procurement is a little more than empty. We haven't had any impressive acquisitions. We have come up with expensive procurement processes, but the result has not been what we would have hoped for. So we have not been given the impetus to these new solutions and have not been able to make sufficient use of them in that field either. One must indeed be the development of its procurement skills. This will also give us a real boost to our own small businesses and to our companies and producers who do not get references except through public procurement. The Centre of Excellence KEINO has been mentioned separately here. We currently have this expertise here in Finland, all over Finland, but it should really be centralised and then widely distributed across our public administration. REINO may be one option, but I'm sure there are others. It would, of course, be hoped that in all procurement the situation would be very close to the grassroots level. We have the procurement law, the application of the procurement law, including the use of it. It is well known that there are also problems with the application of the procurement law in a number of cases, in particular perhaps on the private side. The procurement criteria were already raised here. Even now, when you are qualified, when you are a good customer, you will be able to acquire sustainable products, you will be able to acquire local products, and you will be able to obtain environmentally friendly and cleantech-friendly. If this is to be extended, then it really means that we are strengthening procurement everywhere in the public administration. The second point I am raising is digitalisation. Perhaps some of you happened to see yesterday an A-studio dealing with ict services, Valtori, dealt with the life-threatening situations of the Emergency Response Centre, which had arisen because we did not have digitalization. Our ict services don't work, even those that are necessary to save lives. There was also a good point about well-being at work, customer orientation. Of course, it cannot be that the ict services of public administration are interrupted in the middle of a customer meeting. It suffers both customers and experts. So I would say that this is a very good and important report. I'm glad we're sending this forward now. I hope that all the problems raised here will be taken seriously. Ict services, the whole of this digitalisation, are a great opportunity for all of us, and if we look at the savings in the public sector, productivity, it is also the case that if we make use of all the digital, all robotization, all the automation, we can even achieve a transfer of labour to the private side of public administration experts, where there is a crying shortage of experts. It is also possible to gain benefits in such a way that not every retired person needs a new employee. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u59	Mr President! I would like to thank my fellow Members for their very good contributions and, as chairman of the Audit Committee, I would like to take the floor in this context, however, from the point of view of an individual Member of Parliament, because as a committee we have not yet dealt with this report on the State Audit Office. I myself was very pleased that this annual report is very clear and informative and, in my opinion, also in a positive way, can guide Parliament towards better work. For example, the observation that Finland has not reached its cleantech targets and the analysis of why this is the case and the recommendations for action to achieve a better result were very good in my opinion. It was interesting to read, for example, that when last season In its Government Programme, Sipilä's Government set a very ambitious goal that Finland should become the leading model country for cleantech, and the reason why this goal has not been successful is, in large part, that the state and municipalities are spending in different directions. And where this is from, it is because we lack a national procurement strategy or guiding legislation or that we follow in the long term how environmental objectives are achieved and then decisions are taken according to how environmental objectives have been achieved. In other words, I think that these were very good observations, and we can now draw conclusions from them in Parliament. Then also the observations of the National Audit Office that there is a need for policy coherence in Finland and that there is cooperation in various administrative sectors, for example, in order to achieve the objectives of sustainable development, are of course a very necessary reminder. As is the case with sustainable development, it must be noted that what is decided nationally has significant implications for the development of the rest of the world. For example, Agenda 2030 is binding on Finland and should be taken seriously, so we should also promote Agenda 2030's sustainable development objectives at national level in our decision-making. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u60	Mr President! This Annual Report of the State Audit Office to Parliament contains a lot of interesting points. I myself drew attention to the management of state property and to the fact that state property should always be considered as a whole. This audit report states that ‘the management of the whole of the State’s assets has already been sought to improve. One method has been the establishment of the State’s consolidated balance sheet’—as already stated in the previous speech. ‘Intangible assets should be taken into account in However, despite the companies, this consolidated balance sheet has not yet been realised. On the other hand, in the context of the central government’s financial statements, the assets are reported more comprehensively through the total balance sheet.” But, Mr President, with regard to the abandonment of state property and its sale, we should always look at it in the long term and look at it in relation to the strategic objectives of the state. When considering the financing of investments, debt and debt should always be considered as an alternative to the sale of assets. This is stated in this report. After the sale of the dairy cow, then the proceeds from the property will also cease to exist, and we have sad experiences, such as the Caruna shops, which sometimes come up in this Chamber, saying that it is not always sensible or appropriate to sell strategically important, significant state property, and now the Inspectorate has also raised this problem, and I do thank the Inspectorate for that. As far as Cleantech is concerned, I believe that the objectives are in the right direction and are important, but the means to achieve these objectives have been inadequate, as has already been said, and there is a need for policy guidance, and then there should also be such a cross-sectoral strategy and a common procurement strategy, so that the municipalities have the desired purchasing skills to be able to choose environmentally friendly, ecologically and economically more sustainable solutions and alternatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u61	Madam President! When the Government Programme was discussed here, I spoke about the consolidated financial statements and the consolidated balance sheet that should be made for the State. The Audit Office has now consistently highlighted the need to reform state financial planning and financial management. For some reason this consolidated balance sheet has been discussed for many years in a row, but it has never been achieved. During the last term of government, the government announced a positive budget of 800 million, although it was not positive if it was considered that EUR 1.7 billion of assets were transferred to Vake, which was then taken into account in the state budget by EUR 1.3 billion, and then assets were sold, and in fact that government budget was 1.5 billion down. If the balance sheet had been made, then such items would not have been able to move in this way. That's why I really hope now that when this goes to committee, it would be noticed that this is the kind of consolidated financial statements that have to be made. Cities already have to make these consolidated financial statements, and it easily gives a picture of the kind of companies they have and the results they make. This kind of thing is also needed for the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u62	Madam President! The annual report of the National Audit Office should be taken very seriously. It is particularly important to note that when considering investment and financing, we should always look at debt and debt as an alternative to the sale of assets, just as Mr Hänninen raised here. Looking back on the sale of state ownership, we can say that this was generally a poor economic choice. The loss of dividends and the increase in value are enormous in scale in relation to the revenue generated from sales. In the old high interest periods, the sale of state assets could sometimes be economically viable, and for some companies it has also been necessary, for example, because of EU rules, but in recent years sales have been ideological and fiscally irresponsible. Finland is currently receiving a loan for tens of years, an interest-free loan even, or even a non-interest-bearing loan, at a fixed rate. On the other hand, the average return on state-owned companies has been more than 6%, with the removal of important special task companies, which are not intended to make a significant return, reaching two-digit returns. So we are selling high returns in order to pay off a loan with negative interest rates, fixed interest rates. Today, the second tabloid intimidated Finns by the amount of government debt. As always, the case left out the amount of property that you owe more than you owe. However, the essence of the fear of debt is to understand that the state is not a household and the state is not even a company, even if it also has to invest in the future if it wants to succeed. The State, unlike private parties, never tries to pay off its debts, but lets their value be calculated with time in relation to national income. The Finnish State is also not in debt at the mercy of interest rates because the loan is fixed interest rates. We are being paid out of the loan money, and more than a quarter of it already exists at our own central bank, so we owe ourselves. Mr President! The core is not the amount of gross debt, but the amount of money spent on. When debt is reduced by selling productive assets, in practice, more debt will be incurred in the coming years. The VTV quite rightly wants to improve the management of the whole state's assets. Property management must be planned and linked to long-term strategic objectives. This is easy to agree with. In particular, and as a matter of urgency, consideration should be given to the future of Vake Oy, a state development company, which, according to the liquidator, determines not only political decisions but also two key issues: the duplication of investments with other state investment companies and the appropriate amount of investment assets. So is the role of Solidium. For the sake of transparency, good governance, democracy and the sustainability of the economy, ownership needs to be clarified and, instead of ideological privatisation, it needs to be sought to develop the whole of society for a long time to come.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u63	Madam President! In this respect, colleagues have made excellent contributions to this report. Fortunately, this debate has been lacking such a political pecking that is often typical of this Chamber. Things have been important and have been exposed from different angles. I think that in recent times we have all, each and every one of us, had to deal with the National Audit Office as we pressed for a report on our election funding there. This report focuses on five issues and, as I anticipated in advance, colleagues here have made a number of points and dealt with them. That is why I am not going to repeat it myself, but I am going to refer to pages 44 to 49 at the end of the report, which contain a list of inspection publications from September last year to August of this year. There are 5 reports to Parliament, 71 audit reports from different accounting entities, then fiscal audit reports, reports and ex-post follow-up reports, 4 and excellent performance audits and reports and ex-post reports. I am not going to refer to any of them, but I would like to highlight, for example, the audit report 9/2019 from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the impact of the Guidance on the functioning of the emergency care service, which was a very important report from the Ministry of Education and Culture on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture on the digitisation of education and learning environments, the Ministry of the Interior on the administrative sector on the effectiveness of police traffic control and some other important issues. I think it is very important for us here in Parliament to understand this whole set of budgetary and operational controls. There are four important elements: internal control, internal audit, auditing and risk management. Risk management is future-oriented, these others will be mirroring the legal obligations involved, and the internal audit will be implemented as one of the elements of this supervision. Excellent that we have a well-functioning National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u64	Mr President! Reading this report from the Audit Office was very good educational material for me, since I have now started as a completely new vice-president of the Audit Committee and have not worked in committee before. The report contains many interesting themes. First of all, I welcome the fact that the Agency is also making a powerful contribution to the policy coherence of sustainable development. Sustainable development cannot be achieved if it is not the basis for decision-making at all levels of policy. At the moment, we are still quite far from achieving this objective and, for example, in the budget, the objectives of sustainable development have so far been very thinly visible. Sustainable development can also be promoted through public procurement, for example, which is also the subject of this report. The report highlights, inter alia, that public procurement can also provide a stepping-up platform for domestic export-driven cleantech companies on the international market. Unfortunately, the sustainability criteria do not provide sufficient guidance for public procurement, and this is particularly bad for municipalities. The commitment of the Finnish public administration to common objectives should therefore be considerably strengthened. This requires strengthening the strategic competence of procurement organisations. The 2014 EU Directive and the Procurement Act already allow much more attention to environmental criteria in public procurement. Increasing the sustainability of public procurement is hampered by the lack of knowledge, knowledge and human resources. It is often unclear to public sector decision-makers which products and services are sustainable and sometimes even difficult to compare procurements. The inclusion and scoring of sustainability criteria in competitive tendering is genuinely difficult and difficult for many operators. Clear criteria and a legal basis are needed to support decision-makers and facilitate work. Mr President! The activities and audits of the Audit Office focus on future orientation and joint learning. I very much welcome the fact that the objectives of the checks are to jointly consider how things can be done even better in the future. Learning about mistakes together is a good principle for inspection activities. I hope that this principle will also be passed on to all internal controls. On the other hand, the Audit Office also needs constant sparring and feedback. Perhaps this approach is already reflected in the fact that in 2018 the Audit Office made fewer comments on shortcomings than in previous years. Of course, something to be developed has been found, for example the lack of definition of competences, as well as the major problems arising from the incompleteness of digital programmes and the lack of risk management. Central government needs to be able to make risk management, benefit and disadvantage analyses, and the recommendation of the Audit Office on more comprehensive risk management of central government should therefore be supported. There have been problems in the processes of the digitalisation of services, including, of course, successes. This report states that at the top of the administration there seems to be a good understanding of the potential for digitalisation, but there are shortcomings in setting targets and scheduling measures. Clear mistakes have also been made, as we have heard recently. In addition, the customer-oriented practices required by digitalisation seem to take root very slowly, and digital services do not always mean a smoother service for the customer. We in the committee should be able to hear much more about these matters. Digitalisation of administrative services always requires the comprehensive development of public administration activities. Otherwise, the only change may be that the paper form becomes electronic. Unfortunately, this has happened often. This cannot be the purpose of digitalisation. Furthermore, we must always bear in mind the data protection issues and the fact that we now have almost a million citizens who are unable, unable or able to use digital services, that is to say, the state administration will also need telephone and face-to-face services in the future. Finally, like President Tytti Yli-Viikar, I would like to emphasise informed decision-making. Quality, comprehensive and accessible information is needed to make this possible. Evidence-based decision-making should always be the goal, and for us parliamentarians it should be as easy as possible to obtain information about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u65	Madam Speaker! In particular, I must congratulate Mrs Saramo on the rhetorical foot-loop she has done here in her condemnation of ideological privatisation. He made it sound like he was doing the pragmatic privatisation himself in that government these days. The point that has not been mentioned in this debate itself is, in fact, that the annual report shows the hope that the behaviour and objectives of state-owned companies and businesses will be regularly assessed from the point of view of whether they are still justified in terms of overall economic and social performance and, in my view, that this is the question that is now in demand for a few special task companies. Indeed, it seems that the time has come to discuss, for example, the importance and monopoly of the ownership of Veikkaus and Alko, since the interests of the State in this type of business could be secured by such pragmatic regulation and control.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u66	Madam President! The property of the state is of enormous importance to us Finns. When all is added together, its fair value is likely to be EUR 100 billion, which is the property of the state. Of course it includes roads, railways and so on, but it also has huge assets linked to various stock exchanges. For example, shares are held by listed companies for approximately EUR 28 billion. In addition, the State Ownership Unit has estimated a total of approximately EUR 10 billion worth of assets, which are in such unlisted companies, in various investments. In other words, this describes the real value of State assets for the state budget. This house is about to be dealt with in the next year's state budget, and that also matters how much state property generates profits, which then comes into the state's treasury. It must always be borne in mind that each government has its own policy on ownership policy and that each government has reserved itself for the administration of corporate governance, which belongs to a minister. Today, when we have discussed postal matters very much, for example, and for many other state companies how to manage corporate governance, it is important to remember, however, that all representatives of the Finnish Parliament are concerned that the state is working to ensure that the property produces, that it is not just a burden. Of course, it is only natural for listed companies and other companies to make profits in the state treasury and for assets to be used wisely so that they will have a return in the years to come. Of course, the government will have to take other interests into account in asset management, let us say the management of Metsähallitus' land. There are interests other than forestry, which is also important for the state, but there are recreational values and many other values, different nature values, which belong to Metsähallitus and partly to the Ministry of the Environment. We must remember that all these values, coordinated, must also be borne in mind that Metsähallitus' property, for example, must produce. If it starts taking money from the budget, it becomes difficult to manage its assets and then we have to compromise on something else. In other words, the ownership of the State is very important, and, as stated in this Annual Report of the State Audit Office, quite rightly so, the property of the State must have a return and use the property wisely, and for that purpose the State Audit Office specifically works to check how this State’s property is managed in different companies and then whether it has gone according to the rules and instructions given by this house.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u67	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Heikkinen, it is always nice to have compliments. The left is often left alone in this Chamber to defend common property. And it is no secret that even in the present government, the left has not supported the sale of state property. But what is the alternative? As we know, as far as the Chamber is concerned, it is an ideological objective to get rid of common property. As part of the compromise, we have had to accept that the sale of property will not stop, but of course we will work to ensure that the maximum share of common property — and the most useful part — will continue to remain the property of all of us Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u69	Mr President! Mr Saramo must be reminded here that the Council of State is collectively taking decisions and taking collective responsibility for them. It's interesting to see if this is becoming a government party policy. When the annual climate report was discussed, representatives of the government parties here demanded climate action from the government. Take responsibility and do these things.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-17-ps-32.u70	Mr President! It is true that the government sometimes sells its property, sometimes buys new property. I remember one of those cases where, at the time, Elisa's shares were bought from an Icelandic stock investor through an intermediary so that the state received a significant shareholding in this important telecommunications company. Since then, of course, the government has come to this Solidium, which manages minority shareholdings in these listed companies and seeks to obtain the kind of ownership that is of great benefit to the nation. This incident, Elisha, was an excellent example of how to act in a situation where the State will be able to acquire property of great benefit to the nation. To this end, the government must also have a tool, when stock exchanges are discussed, which can quickly operate if necessary — it cannot fail to do good business. The old, wise manager of the asset management company in his day said very wisely that good deals are rarely available, bad deals can be done every day.
