ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u1	A letter on the Ecumenical Service of Independence Day has been sent to Parliament by the Celebrator, which has been distributed to the representatives. I ask the representatives to meet to attend the Cathedral in front of the National Library on Friday, Independence Day, 11:30 a.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 12/2019 vp. The general debate on this matter ended yesterday at the plenary session on 4 December 2019. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u3	Honorable Speaker! I would like to make an amendment in accordance with Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u4	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u5	Honorable Speaker! I would like to make an amendment in accordance with Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u6	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u7	President! I would like to make an amendment in accordance with Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u8	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u9	President! I would like to make an amendment in accordance with Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u10	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u11	Honorable Speaker! I would like to make an amendment in accordance with Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u12	Mr President! I am in favour of this representative. It's a proposal made by a small hill.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u13	Mr President! I'm going to make a motion for a change in line with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u14	Mr President! I support Mr Heinonen's excellent proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u15	The proposals are of the same content and will therefore be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u16	Honorable Speaker! I would like to make an amendment in accordance with Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u17	Mr President! I support Mrs Vähämäki's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u18	Mr President! I'm going to make a motion for a change in line with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u19	Mr. Speaker! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u20	The proposals are of the same content and will therefore be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u21	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 14/2019 vp. The general debate on this matter ended yesterday at the plenary session on 4 December 2019. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u22	Mr President! I'm going to make a motion for a amendment to the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u23	Mr President! I support this proposal to improve employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u24	Mr President! I'm going to make a motion for a amendment to the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u25	Mr President! I support this proposal to reduce unemployment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u26	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 17/2019 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Let's go to the general discussion to be initiated by the chairman of the tax section, Mr. Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u27	Mr President! I would like to present the report of the Committee on Finance as chairman of the tax section. It is therefore a question of the increased depreciation of machinery, equipment and other movable assets comparable to them for the years 2020 to 2023, and that is a good intention, which is to encourage companies to invest and thus bring more employment and growth to the economy. ♪ We've built ♪ [Murder—President :Sh! ] These critical remarks, as far as this is concerned, were mainly to blame for the fact that this leads to a gap in the tax base, as this is a question of increased depreciation. At the same time, it was also pointed out that, contrary to the standard tax line, it is precisely not the general idea that there is a broad tax base and low rates, but that certain gaps are being made in the tax base. Similarly, the views of the Group on Business Support were raised that this type of business aid should be reduced in the future, and now we are going a little in a different direction, i.e. to increase it. Experts who felt that these deletions were contrary to these ideas in this respect, and this became some criticism. Similarly, VATT, the State Economic Research Centre, considered that the economic benefits of these increased depreciations under low interest rates and low corporation tax are in itself low. In this report, the committee also notes the problem raised by some experts with regard to the current tax system, which relates to the problem of dividend tax. We are talking about this issue of non-listed companies and the fact that, in such a structure today, it encourages an increase in the balance sheet rather than necessarily investing in growth. This is also stated in the committee's report. But there was support for this, of course, because the purpose of the law is good. The committee here says that this was explicitly welcomed by experts because it supports investment, growth and employment in companies. It has also been welcomed that, although there have been few similar measures in the past, this is better, inter alia, because, like previous tax reductions, this would not only target fixed assets used in productive activities, but would relate specifically to all new movable fixed assets. That is also why this is seen to be preferable to a four-year period, i.e. a slightly longer period of time. The committee had quite a lot of discussion about this limitation to new equipment, namely that the government's proposal is based on the fact that it can only be used for new equipment. This, too, became some criticism in the expert consultation: that it could apply to everyone, because the circular economy, for example, could require that this should not just apply to new equipment. We are considering this, and on the basis of expert consultations, too, we have decided to support the model proposed, but we have noted here that we believe it is important to monitor the impact of this legislation specifically on the promotion of the circular economy and also to implement the plan of the Government Programme, which states that a study will be carried out on how fiscal policy can promote the circular economy. On the other hand, it is also stated from the point of view of the circular economy that, if this were also to apply to old equipment, it might be that it would encourage, as if in the name of the tax advantage, to make some unnecessary purchases or exchanges or otherwise, that it would not necessarily be a positive thing in the sense of the circular economy. So, as we can see, things and coins tend to have two sides. The committee here records these tax revenue effects quite accurately, as we should. In other words, in the coming years, tax revenue will be lost, i.e. the total tax revenue will be amortised so that next year the loss will be approximately EUR 207 million and the total amount of EUR 893 million over the entire duration of the proposal. These tax revenues lost during that period will then begin to recover after 2020 to 2023, i.e. from 2024 to 2027, with tax revenues increasing by around 611 million between 2024 and 2027 and the remaining 283 million from 2028. In this way, we note that the criticism that this would lead to a gap in the tax base is not so much a problem for us as such, but that at the same time, however, it remains a problem that the budget year is always one year at a time. It is the revenue and expenditure of the year here and now and, of course, in these coming years it will reduce the tax base. Since there is always concern that central government finances should be balanced and we have been asked about this since the EU, we must of course be realistic in this proposal and say that there will be a loss of tax revenue for the coming year, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u28	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! The President of the Tax Section, the Social Democrats, Pia Viitanen, presented that report and, at the end, was concerned that the public finances were not balanced, and we too are concerned about that, and so has the IMF and the European Commission — that not even in 23 of this country’s economies will be balanced. That is why, of course, now that the government programme is open after the Rinte government has gained its distrust from Parliament, or after losing the majority in this Parliament, we hope that the centre in particular will now demand further measures to balance that economy. It would require measures for employment and employment, and that is what we have most missed here. Mr Viitanen also raised business subsidies and cutting them off or saving them, and took this as one of the examples he set out, and we are surprised at the fact that the government was talking quite loudly about them — and the government parties, in particular the Greens — that subsidies that are harmful to the environment are being cut. But what's gonna happen? When the Greens came to the government, next year business subsidies that are harmful to the environment will not be reduced but will increase. [Jussi Saramo’s interlude] That is where we voted for the first budgetary measures for next year and the Coalition Party proposed and voted for no one to increase taxation next year, and on the other hand we proposed that the household allowance should not be cut and, in fact, increased for 75-year-olds. In this proposal, which is now under discussion, we support the government's proposal to increase the depreciation of machinery, equipment and other movable assets comparable to them. Increased depreciation will improve investment incentives by allowing companies to reduce investment costs more quickly in taxation. Deferring tax payments will reduce the tax burden on corporate investment. However, we consider the changes proposed by the government to be inadequate. The basis for our well-being is deteriorating if private investment is not translated into growth in our country. We invested a third less than Sweden. At the moment, our investment in new capital is just enough to sustain the consumption of capital. In addition to Sweden, we also lose to our other control countries. The most difficult years since the financial crisis are behind us, but the forecasts do not anticipate the acceleration of investment in the future either. In early autumn, the Coalition Party published proposals to stimulate investment. As a new means, we raised the issue of the permanent liberalisation of company depreciation rights. Recent research results, which were also discussed in the hearings of the Tax Section, provide promising indications that a targeted improvement in corporate investment incentives would be achieved by making business depreciation more flexible. We therefore propose that the government should assess the permanent liberalisation of depreciation rather than a fixed-term change. In the case of large investment decisions, the four-year scope is too short. The hearings of the Tax Section revealed that the limitation of double depreciation to new movable fixed assets is a problematic limitation for both the Government’s environmental objectives and tax neutrality. Small and medium-sized enterprises in particular often also invest in machines and equipment that can be purchased when used. The restriction of the government proposal thus excludes a large number of companies from this tax advantage. In fact, the proposed changes encourage fiscally only new machinery and equipment instead of used, which is certainly contrary to the important objectives of the circular economy and sustainable development for the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u30	Mr President! Mr Heinonen spoke well above and well described the proposed improvement in the opposition of the Assembly in relation to the government's proposal, and I support this statement. It is very important that this permanent liberalisation of depreciation rights should take place in the future, because there is indeed a need for investment in Finland. Our current account deficit has remained chronic. Finland's current account has been in deficit throughout this decade, and of course it cannot be blamed on this alone on the Rinte government, whose path was only six months long, but it is quite clear that now that the parties involved in the Rinte government have indicated that they want to continue to implement the Rinte government's programme without even a comma being changed, I call on the government to feel to the outgoing parties that are now in need of real action and a lot, a much more firm approach to making new productive investments in Finland that will help to put this current account's chronic deficit in order. For a small, open economy such as Finland, which lives because we have exports, it is a poison if, over the decade, we are permanently in deficit and we also have no prospect of developing incentives for entrepreneurship in the years to come so that this can be corrected. Mr President! In this respect, I am very concerned about what the section president, Mr Viitanen, flashed that the incentives for entrepreneurship in relation to tax tightening for non-listed companies would also be considered. I hope that it can be assured that this is not the case on the part of the parties that feel the government, because entrepreneurship is carrying Finland. Entrepreneurship requires such fiscal incentives that we will have Finns who will continue to take risks who want to do more than the part that each of us can reasonably expect. When we want to improve employment in Finland and thereby strengthen the basis for well-being, the only way to do that is to create new companies, to create new companies and to create new jobs for these open sector operators, which will then generate tax revenue and hence its future well-being as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u31	Mr President! It is a good thing that this proposal for increased depreciation has been submitted, and Mr Heinose could comment that earlier laws have been shorter when the coalition has been in the government. However, this is the law of four years of increased depreciation. [TimoHeinonenarvous] According to a recent study at Aalto University, at least in the United States and Great Britain, there has been good experience of these increased depreciations. Of course, it is clear that low interest rates reduce its importance — hopefully low interest rates — and then, of course, low corporation tax also reduces its importance, but corporate tax only applies to limited companies and cooperatives. We have a lot of forms of business where even a very strict marginal income tax is paid. Of course, this proposal does not in itself mean anything more than changing the amortization already contained in the right to deduct. These tax revenues will be delayed, but there will be no final tax losses when the depreciation option is increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u32	Mr President! I believe that this introduction of double depreciation in this situation is a very useful measure, especially now that this cyclical situation in the world seems to be such that, at some point in time, it may be expected that foreign exports will be disrupted — some signs of this have been predicted, but, at the same time, economic growth in Finland is looking good. In any event, in a context of economic crisis such as this, in which business expectations have been weakened, I believe that such a measure is well-founded and I believe that it will also encourage these investments in a number of ways. We must remember that Finland is a highly export-driven economy, and many times the business we have is highly investment-intensive. Of course, it is also very job-creating. And quite often it is also the case that energy efficiency will also improve when new machinery and equipment and technology are introduced. In that sense, this also has a certain environmental aspect. I also think it is a good thing that in the past, when such so-called double depreciation has been in use on a fixed-term basis, it has only been directed at industrial production, factories and so on. However, in this proposal, there is also an opportunity for such different forms of company – not only limited companies but also limited companies and open companies – to do so, which is a good thing because the employment and importance of the services sector in our employment has been increasing all along. In that sense, it is good that this is also widely targeted at these other industries.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u33	Mr President! As the President-in-Office of the Tax Section well explained, so many experts were very critical of this proposal, and some experts felt that the best part of the proposal was that it would be as it was in the days of the coalition government that this proposal would have little effect on anything. However, I personally consider the government's line to be quite responsible, but the same cannot be said of a meeting which, in the opinion of experts, has meant fiscal instability, additional debt and problems with the EU when we do not meet our expectations towards the Commission. Perhaps the main problem with this government's proposal is its long duration, which was also criticised as too short, because the government's own objective, or the previous government's, is to achieve budgetary balance according to the 2023 programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, let us not go further into the debate, but the name of the car was mentioned, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u37	Mr President! I would like to hear in more detail whether the Committee has heard from Finnish Entrepreneurs in this regard that incentives for entrepreneurship should be undermined by tackling the taxation of non-listed companies. I am absolutely sure that entrepreneurs are the best experts in entrepreneurship. Some build Finland with their daily work with their hands in clay, if such a figure of speech is to be used, others read about these things in school books. In this respect, it might perhaps be useful to clarify that was this the case that all the experts were behind Mr Saramo's point of view. By the way, Mr President, I would like to say that, according to experts' estimates, the alternative budget for the Coalition Party is a budget offering 60,000 Finnish jobs. The Government's budget proposal, on the other hand, according to an independent parliamentary information service, reduces employment
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u40	And let representative Saramon respond when directly asked.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u42	And now let's go back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u43	Mr President! That is where Mr Viitanen presented the case, and I have to say, because there has been little doubt that these so-called used goods and machines will be bought as for pleasure. I can tell you that in that small and medium-sized sector at the moment the situation is not such that anyone would be willing to buy anything for fun.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u46	Mr President! I am a little surprised that I have listened to this debate in the Chamber when a great deal is being reproached. I do not know whether it has now failed to see that the coalition supports this government proposal, i.e. the assembly considers it to be in principle good and in no way opposed to it, but perhaps it has only tried to improve it in its own protest. The whole aim of the government's proposal is that we should put some incentive, but not big, for companies to invest more, so that we can mobilise the economy and thus generate more tax revenue and so on. My view, however, is that with these depreciation rights no company is going to invest in machinery, equipment or anything that is of no use. Either you have to generate more cash flow or you have to improve your competitiveness. This has only a marginal effect, and the fiscal impact, as Mr Kiviranta has well said here, is, however, only in line with the prevailing interest rates, so that in practice the State does not lose much here. If we are able to stimulate investment with any of this, then the government will win. In fact, this is an important question of principle, and if we politicians and civil servants, through high taxation, try to protect the state's cash flow, the tax cash flow, then it is easy to do so as in the case of car taxation that we create a complete distortion of the market, in which case purchasing power will begin to target second-hand goods from abroad, in this car tax issue, of course, cars. In other words, one should sometimes wonder how we keep the purchasing power in our home country, how we keep VAT, when it comes to these individual citizens, so that they come to their country of origin and do not go to Sweden or Germany. This is a good example of having to think about the whole and think further. The motion is good, but the vote would have gone a little further.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u47	Mr President! The state of investment in Finnish industry is very worrying. Our investment rate has remained permanently below that of other Nordic countries. According to Etla's survey, Finland invests up to one third less in machinery, equipment and research and development than Sweden, and this situation requires a political response. These increased depreciations on machinery, equipment and other comparable fixed assets are part of the solution to the problem and, in the light of research data, it can be assumed that doubling depreciation will encourage companies to invest in new ones. As Mr Heinonen and the other members of the Assembly have already said, the most sensible thing would be to exempt companies from their depreciation rights completely and permanently. It is also necessary to ensure that double depreciation is extended to these used machinery and equipment. This would be very important, especially for small and start-ups, who are just testing their wings. And, as has been said, it would also contribute to the circular economy. Although this proposal is good and worthy of support, we definitely need more action to boost investment. Companies are investing from their own perspective, as has already been said, and the needs are sometimes very different. This is why we need to develop the business environment of Finnish companies in a more holistic way, and we need to listen carefully to small entrepreneurs. The reform of the labour market is also the key to increasing investment. At present, SMEs feel that a lack of qualified labour is one of the main challenges, and these messages of labour shortages come from a wide variety of companies and from all over Finland. There are clear signs in our labour market of a major problem of matching labour and jobs. Our structural unemployment rate is high compared to other Nordic countries, but at the same time there are many job vacancies. It is clear that a poorly functioning labour market and the labour shortage it causes will reduce the ability of companies to invest. Small entrepreneurs need to be given more opportunities: more local reconciliation, and it must also be made possible for non-organised companies. Accelerating investment requires that the objective be taken into account in taxation and that the taxation of work and business should be reduced with determination. For example, the corporate tax reduction that took place years ago gave an encouraging example of the positive impact of lower tax rates on the economy and investment, and now the government is tightening a number of taxes that companies face directly or indirectly, for example, in transport. Also, weakening the household allowance does not contribute to a more vibrant or investment-friendly business environment. The weak willingness of companies to invest is inevitably reflected in lower employment levels,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u48	Mr President! Indeed, as was heard here, among other things, in Mr Saramo's speech, there have also been reasonably critical points of view. Of course, it has been considered that these deletions can be useful and that the reform itself does not pose any challenges, but its effects must be assessed very carefully. It is also great that the section worked on dividend taxation. There is no doubt that similar expert views have been heard for years that there is no point in this which we would best support companies, nor in a fair way. It is really important to look at the effectiveness of all measures. Mr Sjöblom has pointed out very well — and I do not agree with all his views — that there is a great shortage of skilled labour at the moment, and that is also something that should be looked at here as a whole when we want to support business and business investment. It is also unquestionably true that increasing productivity is the most important factor for economic success, and there we have done well in education and product development and, as we know, we are lagging behind in product development. The same is true in terms of skills: when skills assessment needs appear to be up to 75% of young age groups should be higher-educationed so that we can equip ourselves for a world where jobs are created in this type of sector, as experts say, this is what we should talk about when we want to speed up companies' survival. In other words, this removal decision can certainly pose a challenge for certain types of companies, which excludes many companies from the potential benefits. So now that we have done this kind of equipment relief, then next it is extremely important to consider how we will speed up our knowledge investments and how we can facilitate both small and medium sized companies in that they are able to hire people because there are a lot of companies that are excluded from the benefits of this presentation and who do not invest
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u50	Mr President! This is a good opportunity to praise the government's proposal. It's a very good show for entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u56	Mr President! Mr Viitanen presented this somewhat inadequate proposal by the government on the double withdrawal of machinery and equipment and others, and as you know, Mr Viitanen, I am a staunch advocate of equality, so I think that in the name of equality we should also take account of these smaller companies who might like to invest in a used machine. For example, Mr Kiviranta pointed out that these new equipment may have lower emissions, and I assume that you meant, for example, transport equipment or machinery. You just have to take into account that sometimes, when someone buys a used truck, a machine, a shaker or a device, they may renew that equipment for 20 years at the same time, even if they buy a used device, and it certainly has considerably lower emissions than that old machine. So we have to take this into account. Then that outgoing equipment will no longer produce emissions here in our beloved country of Finland — it will probably then be taken forward, somewhere in Africa, where it will still produce those global emissions. Yes, I am surprised that the machines used have been excluded from this bill of yours. In this way, we could also improve the circular economy by renewing used machinery, so that I am surprised that the government's proposal slows down this sustainable consumption and development. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u57	Thank you. — Now, Mr Kiviranta, you can answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u58	Mr President! I can at least say that this is the best proposal for increased depreciation so far, when it is four years old and applies to all industries in which machinery, equipment and movable fixed assets are used, i.e. industry, services and even agriculture. In four years, 93.75 % can be removed if we start moving in 2020. But I asked for this speech because, for some incomprehensible reason — well, not really for an incomprehensible reason, since we are now in this Chamber — we have started to talk about something other than this proposal. There has been talk here of dividend taxation for non-listed limited companies. It has not been dealt with in any way in the Committee on Finance and its tax section in this context. It has not been on any of the lists or on any of the readings. It is a question of taxation of income, and this proposal, which we are dealing with here, is a question of amortizing business expenditure. In other words, there is no agreement in the Government Programme on the taxation of dividends for non-listed limited companies, and that means that the government does not make any legislative amendments in that respect either.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u59	Mr President! I am not surprised that there are speeches from the left-hand side of the Chamber that want to increase the tax burden on entrepreneurs and businesses. This conversation is a bit...
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u68	I would remind all the representatives of Mr Heinonen's excellent example: that is, if the speech is less than 3 minutes, it can be taken from its own place, and if it is more than 3 minutes, then it will be here in front.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u69	Mr President! I think the President-in-Office of the Tax Section has said very well that we are here to reduce the tax burden on entrepreneurs. That is the fact of this government proposal, and that is what the Coalition Party supports. And if I have understood correctly, then if the company is left with more cash flow when taxation is reduced, it may, in some cases, help to obtain more loans in order to be able to invest again and thus away. So this is going to be a certain positive twist, at least in theory. But I continue to stress that, even if this law comes into force, the company will always have to wonder when making investments whether it usually makes sense, whether it will improve competitiveness, productivity and, in the long term, bring more money into the company's cash register, because otherwise there would be no point in the investment and no one will invest because of the double depreciation. It must be borne in mind that the power of this in these matters is not too great, but it is, as it were, a small gesture from the government and parliament of the country that we are supporting investments which in Finland are clearly lagging behind the international level and the level of competing countries. In particular, I would like to ask the chairman of the tax section: how much did you talk about free depreciation rights? They are very often raised when there is a sudden desire to improve investment and, as it were, to boost investment. I would like the chairman of the tax section to answer that question properly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u70	And Mr Viitanen will reply directly immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u71	President! I will reply here as soon as I have the floor. Of course, such matters were raised in some opinions and expert hearings. But in fact, when we were dealing with this matter and we were dealing with the draft report, we did not go into free depreciation because we saw that, in this case, this model, with its limitations, is justified, because there is also the other side of the coin that, although we would like to support business, we have the reality that we want to do so in such a way that then the state finances in some way will remain more stable in this situation, if that is what we can say. We also saw that, in this situation, it is good to make this report reflective, highlighting many aspects of the coin, but still taking the government's proposal through as it is. All in all, Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Member. Eestilä on the constructive approach you have had, at least you admit that the government's proposals are good, and it is precisely that this is now reducing the tax burden on businesses. But I think it's good that you bring it up, and it doesn't get the impression that everything's just bad again.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u72	The biggest thing we have is fine.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u73	Mr President! Here, Mr Viitanen, we fully agree. I believe that all the members of the Assembly who have spoken here believe that this government proposal is good in itself, but that it would like to do even better for entrepreneurs — and with a proposal to make a statement in accordance with its own objections. And even in this debate we cannot escape the fact that the tax policy of the Rinte government as a whole tightens the taxation of the average entrepreneur, because for many small entrepreneurs, which are mainly companies in Finland, wage income — when by-products increase its taxation — means that the overall taxation is tightened. These massive increases in fuel taxation result in a reduction in the ability of companies to make profits, which could perhaps be the source of dividends, but the fact is that the proposal of the Rinte Government is tightening the tax burden on entrepreneurs. Mr President, while entrepreneurship is the one that is in the position of Finland and companies to create the much-needed new jobs, I believe that, in this case too, we should rather have as a basis an alternative to a coalition which, from the point of view of the entrepreneur, brings about a cheaper tax and incentives to invest and employ in Finland, as well as in the overall sense, an increase of 60,000 jobs where the government's option threatens to weaken employment. But in a constructive spirit we want to bring these proposals to the government for evaluation, and now that a new government programme is being drawn up, we hope that these good proposals from the Assembly will also be taken into account. Mr President! I would also like to say very quickly when Mrs Holopainen called for speeches to be made in particular in order to increase the tax burden on entrepreneurs: yes, there was a sense of such a spirit in these speeches on dividend taxation, but it is, of course, great if you can convince Mrs Kiviranta in the same way that Mrs Kiviranta, in her own good speech, has assured us that the government, which appears to be based on the same basis as this fallen government on the slope, will not be able to increase the tax burden on entrepreneurs any more than you are now doing with this whole budget for the year.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u74	Congressman Holopainen, I'll give you one minute and three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u75	Thank you, Speaker! I would have asked the representative if you have been familiar with these very extensive assessments of how ineffective our current dividend tax system is for non-listed companies. There is no doubt about this, and it is worth getting to know it, it is not even the head of any ‘green left’ policy, but it has been clarified and problems have been identified even very long. That does not mean that we do not want to support entrepreneurship. On the contrary, we want to support entrepreneurship through genuine means that are effective and by means that do not only target a particular group of entrepreneurs and businesses. We could very well, perhaps during the next term of government, correct this dividend tax system in such a way that we believe that the same pot goes more effectively to the benefit of companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u76	And back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u77	Mr President! In a way you might say that as a man in the field — I have been working for more than 30 years in the construction industry — I have thought about this presentation, and I think this is a good presentation in view of the fact that during this 30 years of construction work, this quality requirement, the quality of their machines and their environmental friendliness and things like this has been condensed throughout the construction work. And this also gives us the opportunity to acquire better and new equipment, which is welcome for these entrepreneurs who are doing this business, and for those companies as well. After all, when we have approved in Parliament in the parliamentary working group that we should go ahead with this repair debt, the big companies will probably be competing for the road projects and the railway projects that we are going to have there. They are not small projects when they are taken forward. In these, good, new equipment is a very competitive and efficient approach, and this supports the possibility of carrying out such work. Even as far as these used machines are concerned, I would see that there is something to be done, but I am sure that the time will be later.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u78	After all, we're all here in the construction of the land, in the construction of the country. — Representative Holopainen, now the three minutes I promised.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u79	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to ask the people here who have claimed that companies are being supported, whether they should not be supported by the best possible means and not by ineffective means. Should we not base our decision-making on some assessment of the usefulness of certain means? That is why it would indeed be reasonable, and hopefully very soon, to correct the current dividend tax system for non-listed companies. This Government Programme, the Rinte Government Programme, is in many respects considerably forward and much more effective than the previous Government Programme. In particular, there was a lack of focus on certain sectors — the bioeconomy was mentioned very strongly — which gives a rather misleading picture of the variety of sources of our business activity. There is a risk that if we start to overselect these sectors politically, then we may not be able to make the right choices as it were. We want to support businesses and entrepreneurs. Among other things, Finnish Entrepreneurs have thanked for the additional funding provided for vocational education and training. They have been concerned and have seen the results of this previous government’s training cuts. Where we, the whole of Parliament, certainly have something to improve is that, now that we have dismantled the cuts in education on this government base, we need to understand even more strongly that we still need a great deal of investment in education. And in my opinion, this debate, which focuses on narrowing business life, does not produce good ideas for this debate when we in Finland need a more diverse industrial structure and more diverse exports. We need to identify the facts and the statistics that tell us what industries we have and what industries we may expect to grow in, so that we recognise its diversity and we recognise that there are a lot of knowledge-intensive sectors that are completely dependent on people and on the skills they gain. It would then be very important to expand the debate on the basis of the realities that exist in our economy if we want to be the kind of economy that moves forward. In order to achieve this objective, it is extremely important that we are pioneers in research and development, and that we can also be involved in creating them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u80	Mr President! It has now been well mentioned here on many occasions, and I believe that the committee's explanatory statement in this report rather than this two years earlier is a step in the right direction, and Mrs Heinonen's abolition of the time limit is certainly a worthy idea and deserves serious consideration. But I have paid particular attention now to this entrepreneurial debate. Everyone in this Chamber knows that our public sector has grown far too big. We need SMEs in particular, and they must be encouraged to act. That is where Mr Saramo and also Mr Kiviranta raised the problem of dividend taxation in the case of non-listed companies, and it is not quite so clear at the moment. This opinion also states that ‘we may encourage risk-freeinvestments’,that is to say, we must do all the work that Finns For example, in our own alternative budget, we Finns have mentioned how we propose a tax incentive for growth companies that employ in Finland to gain working capital from the company's results. In our model, an SME who, for two consecutive years, employs at least two new full-time employees and whose annual increase in the number of employees is at least 10%, has been exempted from corporate tax for as long as it does not distribute dividends to its owners. So what this means now is that we have the idea that we could gradually move towards the Estonian model gradually, and that might then solve this dividend problem, which has raised a lot of people here for and against, and would create more jobs in Finland, which is what we need. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u81	Mr President! It may have seemed as if we were talking about this issue when we talk so much about this problem of dividend taxation for non-listed companies, but the fact is that, with this proposal, we are now encouraging investment in machinery, equipment, modern technology and know-how, then this current dividend tax model in non-listed companies is encouraging the opposite: to keep net assets protected and then to raise a large, almost tax-free amount on the basis of outdated comparisons of interest rates. When we talk about this interest rate yield of between 8% and 9%, which is, as it were, an inflation adjustment, it is ten times what real inflation has been in recent years and it is completely distorted. And yes, these problems of dividend taxation are recognised by a capitalist scientist today, which is why many of these proposals have been made to correct it. The interesting thing is that the business association defends the current model, although it is well known that it affects only a few per cent of the members of entrepreneurs, it is at all an opportunity to take advantage of this favourable tax treatment. The majority of the members are small entrepreneurs, for whom tax reductions and incentives for work would be entirely different. And it is good that new incentives to increase employees, personnel, have also been considered in the case of Finns. There are certainly a wide range of routes that can better target measures to support employment and growth in these small enterprises. The 400-500 million which would be obtained by a fairer tax system from the dividend income of non-listed companies would be able to reduce the position of small entrepreneurs working under very difficult conditions accordingly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u82	Mr President! A few words about this so-called big picture, the distribution of social income over the last ten years. In fact, since 2010, companies have received considerable reliefs, such as reductions in corporation tax, the abolition of the Kela levy, the reductions in social insurance contributions in the competitiveness agreement and the extension of working time in the same contract. The reduction in corporation tax has been calculated as having benefited businesses up to 1.2 billion annually in recent years, the write-off of Kela's contribution has been worth EUR 700 million per year in ten years, and then, within three years, 4 billion in total of these kiky-helps from reductions in social insurance contributions and 3.1 billion in length of working time. Overall, the reduction in corporation tax from 26 to 20 per cent has generated 7,7 billion benefits for companies over a ten-year period, the depreciation of the Kela levy for the same period of 7 billion benefits, and the total amount of kiky-actions is around 7 billion, i.e. nearly 22 billion in ten years of relief for companies. The question arises as to why such reliefs have been made during the boom season. Of course, these would have been justified in the case of worse economic times. It has now become the case that corporate dividends have increased during the same period. Investments, as has been said here from the point of view of the Coalition Party, have not developed very much, but dividends from companies have, for example, grown from 16.5 billion in 2014 to nearly 23 billion in 2018. Then I have to say that the earnings level of employees has remained at zero during this ten-year period. So if you look at this big picture, the companies have had quite great benefits, and the benefits — yes, from these figures you can conclude — have leaked to a large extent into the owners ’ pockets. I think it's okay to think about this big picture. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u83	Mr President! All you have to do is, Mr. Yrttiaho, to be an entrepreneur. What I was going to ask: Mr Holopainen, you spoke about education, and I understood that you wanted to make it a tax deduction in some way, education or training. I would therefore like to understand that — it may be that I personally think too narrowly of what you mean, for I personally would see that an entrepreneur, if he trains his employees and invests in them, is able to directly reduce this result in terms of wage costs. So you can't put a double down on it anymore. Maybe I can see this from too narrow a hint.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u84	Let us give a 1 minute response, please, Mrs Holopainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u85	Mr President! I broadly referred to the measures we can take for the benefit of our businesses and for the benefit of entrepreneurs, and what the government has now been commended for is that resources have been increased for vocational education and training institutions, and I hope that we will be able to move forward from the considerable crisis caused by the cuts, including last season's cuts, to that side. As has been pointed out many times here, the need for a qualified workforce is obvious, and this is one way of responding to it — of course, all the other training that we offer. Whenever a number of measures are assessed, for example in this case the measures that we can take to help businesses operate, it is important to weigh up what are the options and what are, as it were, the alternative costs, because many of them, like this one, also have financial implications, even if later on.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u86	Now back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u87	Mr President! Mr Yrttiaho made good mention of the measures taken over the past ten years to enable Finnish companies to make a profit and hopefully also to invest more in Finland. When I may have sensed a little bit about your speech — correct me if I am wrong — such a slight indignation that this 22 billion has been directed to the owners of companies, who in Finland owns the companies? In Finland, pension companies own companies. Each of us's pensions will be paid out of the funds that will accumulate there. In Finland, the state owns companies. It is a question of the common national property of each of us, of the resources that can then be used to provide training, health care and infrastructure through this dividend income. It is true that there are also personal entrepreneurs who have been successful in recent years. They are family and mothers, they are the people who do a little more than perhaps the average society requires of each of us. They are the ones who also bring work to the families of other fathers and mothers, and then they bring bread to the table. In other words, I am a little confused that we should start using speeches where, as it were, well, perhaps I am wrong, but then I feel this envy towards the owners of the companies. Yes, Finnish well-being is built on the work that we all do, and it requires companies, companies that are successful. Mr President! Perhaps Mr Holopainen is running the debate on why these larger reforms are not being made: I fully agree that, of course, we should strive to make major reforms in Finnish society that create the best possible conditions for companies to succeed, to create new jobs through investment. Perhaps during the six months of the Rinte government, the big problem was that the Rinte government did not have confidence, that companies did not in principle have confidence in the kind of programme the government is planning to implement. Consumer confidence has deteriorated dramatically during this period. Finland has been reprimanded by the EU Commission and the International Monetary Fund for a rather poor economic performance. The public's confidence, the voter's confidence in the government fell, and now, of course, the government has submitted its resignation, because the majority of the parliament also lost the support of the Rinte Government. It is clear that in the face of such a lack of confidence it cannot be done:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u88	Mr President! I'm going to continue the phone call I tried in that toilet, but I didn't finish it. There has been a lot of talk about how it is targeted, so now it is targeting new equipment. True Finns, like the Coalition Party, felt that it should be included in older equipment. As it should be. I would like to see it changed and, together, I thought it would be possible to adopt such a law. Congressman Semi said it was a good way, as it is. He brought up the construction of the land there. Today, small entrepreneurs in construction companies have very old equipment. The new roads, the roads, the big construction sites like that, you can't get to the old things. There's got to be some new ones. It would improve the position of their small contractors when they received a slightly newer fleet of machines. Working machines also have road classes for engines, i.e. emission classes. That would also improve the position of the provincial men, entrepreneurs. For 40 years, I've been wallowing there myself. Then again: Herbiaho was concerned that entrepreneurs are now getting too much money. Here's the car's worth it. After all, small entrepreneurs live on that cash flow and pay the TES wages, it is a very small slice that remains for us. That those Posts and state companies, the pension companies, they'll take that money then, the billions. So it's no big deal now that the idea is that if it were to go away, that it would be the older equipment there.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u89	And Mr Semi, a one-minute response.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u90	Mr President! Of course, there are old machines in the construction sites, but when this right of deduction also applies to the additional equipment that makes those quality factors there. There are scoopers, spikes and all kinds of accessories like this that are needed for the machine. And they're just like that. That's how they say it's reasonable to buy those old machines. These deletions make it easier for an entrepreneur to live, and that is why this is a very good performance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u91	And the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u92	Mr President! In that previous speech, Mr Autto was concerned about how the economy had developed. After all, the latest data show that the economy has clearly grown more than it thought, and the figures for the beginning of the year were corrected upwards. Growth has accelerated. This is the kind of news we've been reading lately. Of course there are many structural challenges that need to be addressed and that work has been undertaken. We need to improve our level of education and so on. Much needs to be done, but it is not quite true that the economy has not developed positively recently.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u93	Mr Viitanen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u94	President! I was the last person to speak, and then I began to see that the turn came very quickly, but that is all right. For my part, at this stage, I can already thank Parliament for a good debate. I think it was important to see that all the proposals have advantages and disadvantages, and yet here the positive side is, in itself, a win-win situation, so it is positive that we can try to find different ways of supporting business. Personally, I think it is important that we also look for different ways in the future, and that I personally agree with Mr Koskinen' s excellent speech, that if the structure of these unlisted companies now happens to be such that it favours certain, very capital-intensive and rich companies and does not necessarily encourage investment, why not, for example, better target small companies and thus support job creation? This is the kind of reflection that is needed. At the end of the day, I would like to say, President, that I repeat that although there are quite good hopes here in itself that this right of withdrawal should be even more extensive, even if we are dealing with this used equipment, we are also, friends, in the face of realism in this Chamber. At the same time, we have had numerous debates on state finances. We have been criticised for investing in the position of a low-income person when we invest in education, when we want to take care of the elderly, we need money, and we have been criticised for being able to, now the economy is destabilising because these investments are being made by this government. At the same time, however, this proposal will reduce the tax revenue that will be used to do these things by 207 million next year. And even though it may sometimes come back in 2027, when we need that care for the elderly and education here and now and a certain degree of stability for the economy too, there is quite a lot of money here that we will invest next year in facilitating entrepreneurship here and now, so that those jobs can be created here and now and in the future, and then better afford to manage the services of our welfare society and take care of its role as a small person. So I think this is a responsible, good equation. And then I would point out that if we still want to get more through this, then there should be a credible alternative, where it comes from or something else — because that is not the way to say that we want all the good things and then it does not cost anything, as it were, that taxes are to be paid by the state. This is not the case, of course, and I therefore believe that there is a little realism in these discussions as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u95	Mr President! This is an example of the construction of land in this area. Mr Semi and Mr Kotima or Mr Kotiaho have spoken about it. When you told us that new machines — especially from the left side — came to light, that the newer the machine, the more the scooper, or some other accessory to the machine, the lower the emissions. It is just a cold fact that there are numerous construction companies in Finland. Some are companies of a few men, and these companies of a few men or of one man are unfortunately very often forced to work with used machinery. Even used machinery is allowed to go to the motorway site as long as it meets the emission categories required to reduce environmental emissions. There may be Euro 5 or Euro 6. These machines are sold in Finland. There are own companies that import these used machines from abroad. They're also left by these bigger companies. Yes, it would be equal... — Even the screamer listens, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u98	And now, Mr Kiljunen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u99	Mr President! I wanted to react to this very fact because there has been so much of this debate here throughout the Chamber that this government is doing nothing to promote employment and promote investment. I was supposed to come down here to the gym and tell you that this is one example of these double withdrawals.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u104	Mr President! We support this government proposal. It is good, but I would also like to point out the equipment used in the sense that there can be, for example, this kind of gravel semi-trailer, the new Euro six, the draw button, but the trailer does not want to get anything other than used. It would also be absolutely essential to have a right of deduction for these used trailers, because trailers on so-called pompu wheels can easily sink in those works sites, landfills and so on. If they have these two wheels, which can only be obtained when used, I would consider it very important to have the right to deduct for them as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u105	Mr President! It is good to note that even this measure, which it is now good to try out and see how impact develops this time, is not one that covers all companies. If we are talking about terms for equality, then perhaps it would be good to look at the whole and go out there and fork out ways that help companies that do not have large investments in equipment and machinery. In this context, I would say more about the effectiveness that when state money is spent, it is spent carefully and on objects with great effects. Gender equality may then be a bit of a different type of term and is linked to this society as a whole. This is where we need to look for impressive measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u106	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 16/2019 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u107	Mr President! We in the tax section will continue to do so, and I am happy to present the report by the tax section and hence by the Committee on Finance on this income register. This has to do with the fact that when this income register came into force as a new system, there were certain problems, some of which were widely discussed in society. Among other things, there were unreasonable situations for NGOs when it seemed that every little thing must be announced, and here the government now presented a good proposal, that is to say, this legislation is being amended so as to ease this burden. This is a highly desirable and widely supported government proposal, which is now the concept here. What makes me particularly happy — and let me say this, Mr President — is that, in addition to a good proposal from the government, the committee has also contributed to improving it, so that we have partly changed the government’s proposal. In addition to this, when it improves the situation of non-governmental organisations in the direction that companies and non-governmental organisations want, let us take an even better step in the direction of the citizen: we are making a change in the tax-free nature of low-value competition awards, and we believe that the monetary and goods prizes received in competitions up to EUR 100 are, in certain circumstances, a duty-free income for their recipients. Finally, Mr President, let me briefly go over this committee's report. This law introduces certain changes, both in nature and in wages. It is proposed that the notification procedure should be simplified and the periodicity adjusted — and we note that these are very much to be welcomed. The committee also notes that this change will reduce the administrative burden on employers and will not result in any significant deterioration in the data content of the Incomes Register or in the timely amortization of taxable income. In other words, we say in itself that this will also be wise in the future, technically and in terms of how things are going to go. It is also proposed to extend the notification period for a small lump sum paid in civil activities. After all, there was a bottom line that in five days you should immediately start reporting these performances and, of course, when many of these are volunteered on such voluntary occasions, that five days is quite unreasonable, and it is glad that this time is now being extended. The committee naturally agrees that this five-day period, the time limit for reporting lump sums, will be extended to the 5th day of the following month. Here, too, the late payment is postponed by one year, and it is also good in itself, because the system is new and needs to be given a little time to the operators to look at the operation in order to see that this system itself changes slightly. Then we will get to this point in the announcement of the Competition Prizes, which is now the subject of our amendment. The government's proposal already states that sports clubs and all kinds of hobby activities have experienced a significant additional difficulty in having to report all the minor performances, and this government's proposal in itself corrects what is a positive thing. In other words, it has been suggested that in the future the organiser would not announce a cash or goods prize worth up to EUR 100 — good. But this would have meant, on the one hand, that the recipient of the prize in question — the person who receives the prize — would then have had to declare himself the prize, every single one of which was less than EUR 100, let me say,the ‘tilpepper’,everyone should have reported and certainly would have been able to be born in situations such as that the citizen had not necessarily been aware of his obligation to report them. Perhaps even such unintentional non-notification might have come, when a person has acted quite correctly and then suddenly realizes that he has done something wrong, as if he has not. We wanted to bring that humanity and the citizen's point of view to this, so we explained it and found that a change in the law is possible in this respect too, and so in that section we made a change in which, in practice, the recipient of the competition prize could fail to announce such a total of less than EUR 100 for a calendar year, and that would be just as it would be. Here again, President-in-Office, we note that comments have been made in the expert consultation on this issue, and the section has also been pleased to draw attention to this. And then we have a little argument here that this would have been a very heavy one for the tax administration, as proposed by the government, because it would have been a little inappropriate for the tax administration to have to monitor all of this now. Similarly, when the recipient would have made various deductions from the cost of earning income in order to receive this prize, this would have become quite complicated, and certainly the benefit for himself would have been very small in relation to the administrative burden that would have been here. In other words, we are all going through all of these in our own report, and I think we have made an excellent and important improvement on this. And this is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u108	Mr President! Mr Viitanen presented this very well. This is a completely unnecessary and even, in everyday terms, a reduction in non-transparent bureaucracy. It tells us that the government is listening to what is happening in civil society. And this was a good example, even if these little prizes that move around borders that if there are prizes of less than 100 euros, I would imagine that if that bureaucracy were really to be kept the same, a lot of people would rather refuse that prize than take up that huge job,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u111	Yes, the opposition has also spoken here, but before that Mr Koskinen has spoken.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u112	Mr President! As the two speeches above have proved, this will reduce bureaucracy and such obligations traps from the point of view of the ordinary citizen, which are not known. In fact, as far as the ordinary citizen and the NGOs are concerned, this seems to be more than what the previous government has achieved over the last four years. Even though there were fine headlines for debureaucratization, they stuck around half way. This has now been completed, and indeed, in addition to what Mr Viitanen said, I would emphasise that this will help to preserve tax morality. Now if we had left such a principled obligation to declare small goods prizes in the tax return and we well know that the majority of people do not remember them or do not know that such an obligation would exist, then it is counterproductive in terms of general tax morality, that we have obligations that only a few per cent comply with and then others may occasionally become tax sanctions or inconveniences if the tax agent then gets caught in such a case. We must remove tax traps of this kind, in which it is very difficult for ordinary people to know what is right and what is wrong, and this package of reforms improves a lot. When people take part in sports or ice-fishing competitions — ice-fishing is a good term for this to be used for such small prizes to be freed from red tape and taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u113	Mr President! This is a very good bill, and I am sure Parliament will be able to accept this content unanimously, as well as the Committee on Finance, and there, under the leadership of its chairman, Mr Viitanen, who is known to be a member of the Tax Section, has made this report very well. Indeed, I would like to thank the government, but now that we only have this Department of Editors, it was that they brought a common hope across this whole political field that such a very important improvement will be achieved in everyday life. Indeed, such an improvement is nice to regulate in the field of taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u114	Mr President! In fact, Mr Koskinen has already said a great deal of the things I would have said myself. The public's sense of justice is very well suited to this government's proposal. When this bill was enacted in time, it was found to be ineffective and, above all, human beings, one can say, even to be taxed and disciplined in vain. It's a good thing we're fixing it now. The ice-fishing competitions as well as the various other small races and prizes of sports clubs now come to the level they should be. Small prizes are part of sport and hobby activities and do not need to be separately extended by the tax authority’s long hand. Also this kind of tax transparency from other parts of this is ensured, i.e. if those prize amounts rise very, very high, then it is natural that then the tax collector in these matters is missing. There was also mention here earlier of this reduction in the administrative burden. We should be able to look even more closely at similar systems in our legislation, which create difficult situations and unreasonable situations for our citizens, but also completely unnecessary bureaucratic work. I believe that not only the citizens but also the bureaucrats think that this work is unnecessary. There are more important things to be found. And how nice it is in this Parliament at these moments when we can cross party and government—opposition limits, above all together to make these corrections, especially now that there is no government, but we have the Ministry of Delivery. It is nice to welcome the thanks of the previous opposition for the good work done by the previous government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u115	Yes, and more thanks.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u116	Mr President! This is a good way to go with this government proposal. Maybe that 100-euro limit is still a little low.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u119	Mr President! The government's proposal on this too is good. I have been on the board of police athletes in Tampere for decades, and we actively support junior sports and so on. However, would it be possible to increase this EUR 100 to EUR 200? Very often, then, if we give a junior a ski pack — skis, poles and monos — it simply does not fit in this EUR 100, but it would fit perfectly well in the EUR 200. If you could consider one of these.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u120	Mr President! And just briefly: I understood that Mr Viitanen here used the term ‘pile centenary’. He meant that the question was...
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u123	Mr President! Even in this case, when Mr Kiljunen raised these words ‘symbol prize’, these are truly symbolic prizes. Well, for society, we have to think about whether we're building around these symbolic awards some damn tax audit thing. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u126	Mr President! For my part, I would like to thank you for this debate, and I would like to say that this is a unanimous report from the whole of our committee, which also includes the representatives of the Finns, and everyone thought it was good and important when a major reform was carried out during the previous government, which was also carried out without any objections from the Finns. It has proved to have gaps. When the government took up these gaps and closed them for NGOs, in a positive direction for small entrepreneurs, the committee here improved the government's proposal slightly by improving the status of the citizen. So the committee has done a good job here, and the reflection has been positive. It is always possible to discuss what that limit is and then, of course, the questions arise that we will perhaps consider it in the future on the basis of experience. We talked very well that from experience you can then see what is the right model. What is important is that we do this now and it is consistent in logic with the limits of this government's proposal, if that is what we can say, and that is an explanation. But then, at some point, of course, there will be the limit of how much the system allows to start to come to those 100 euros or 200 euros in ten consecutive or 100 consecutive, and that is not possible. We too, as legislators, must also note that when we make changes we must try to make them in a wise way. But I, the President, am open to any feedback and I believe that the section will be too. In a good consensus between all the parties we did this, and there is nothing to prevent us from gathering experience and coming back to the matter and also from taking up good ideas. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u127	Mr President! Indeed, Mr Viitanen is the President of the Chamber, and when he wanted these new ideas, perhaps this important reflection by Mr Mäenpää could be glareed with the idea that we could have, for example, such a limit on the freedom of association, which could go to these scholarships. Or I will describe, for example, a hypothetical but perhaps real example for many clubs, that the club is organising ski competitions and that the competition at international level should include, for example, medical expertise on the spot. Well, of course you need volunteers there, and such a critical resource, such as a doctor at the competition, would of course be nice to reward in some way more than just offering you a race sausage — the club could give you a season pass for the evening fats of the next navigation season. Now this is taxable income, but if we had such a small limit on free income from social activities, then everyone could take care of such a formal consideration, worth a few tens, and the Society would offer for the inconveniences that are undoubtedly greater than the economic value of this benefit but are of invaluable importance to the promotion of its social activities. This could be an idea for the Tax Division that could be developed. This would not really make a hole in the tax base, but would only promote the work of children and young people and, of course, sport and physical activity, and why can't it be used in other clubs too, let's say now, at dog shows or elsewhere. In other words, you would seek a suitable free income limit for social activities that would apply to these scholarships and small prizes and, for example, such formal rewards of the night.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u128	Mr President! Of course, on the eve of Independence Day and in the time of the Ministry of Delivery, it is wonderful that we can cross party boundaries, from left to right, to say that we have at least some things in which we can work together. This proposal will certainly be adopted unanimously here in Parliament. It makes sense to cut red tape. And here, for example, are the small prizes given by NGOs, sports organisations, the award of prizes worth money, the fact that this can be exempted from taxation and reporting obligations. Is that a limit of 100 or 200 euros? I don't think that's the issue either. I think the most sensible thing to do is to take this performance right now at this border. And, as Mr Autto has pointed out, let the tax section think about this: it would be, on the eve of next Independence Day, that EUR 200 will be brought here, so that we can have it if it is as if it were the right border. The main thing is that it is still a question of symbolic prizes and not of the fact that it really is a monetary income, which this would become. Well, that would be tax-paying by now, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u129	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 5/2019 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u130	Madam President! The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has certainly done a good and well-founded job with this report, and this proposal is certainly well-founded from the point of view of administrative organisation. But if you will allow me, Madam President, two points of view on this subject. In Finland, incentives should be developed to ensure that these contaminated countries are always cleaned up and not then disposed of for future generations to clean up. And I understand, Mr President, that this also requires financial input, but, on the other hand, incentives can be developed in different ways, so that this always happens, that the contaminated countries that have been identified are cleaned up, but then, of course, support can also be provided. And this is the other point I would like to make in this debate. When Finland has become a wealthy nation, especially through our wood processing industry and the wood processing industry has been around the country, even in places that are very small, and now, as a result of this wood processing activity, it is very important that the local community is not left alone with the cost of cleaning it up, because the work that has been done there in the past decades has been precisely the work that has been able to enrich Finnish society and enable us today to enjoy this high standard of living and quality of life. In other words, collectively more than what we are doing now, we would be responsible for ensuring that these issues can be resolved in a sustainable way throughout Finland, including in smaller rural areas, so that the local community does not face an unreasonable financial burden of environmental sustainability.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u131	Mr President! This representative of the car’s attention is exactly right that contaminated areas should be cleaned rather than left to burden the environment. It is a bit the same as when it comes to the treatment of waste, that instead of dragging waste to landfills, we prefer to invest in recycling or then make a real final disposal, even by burning in thermal power stations and so on. So in this respect, it is absolutely reasonable to think about it. However, permanent landfills or permanent loads of nature are permanence, and we have limits in nature.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-05-ps-76.u132	Mr President! Now that the compensation for environmental damage is being improved, it is very important that this compensation is primarily the responsibility of the party whose activity the damage has been caused. This would hardly be the responsibility of small municipalities, for example, but it should always be the responsibility of whoever has caused it, whether the company or any other operator. This will also prevent environmental damage from occurring when, as clearly as possible, the responsibility is attributed to the person who has actually been responsible for the damage and who will have the most likely economic benefit from it.
