ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. In accordance with Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Council of Presidents, which is responsible for making proposals for the arrangement of sittings between parliamentary groups in the Chamber, proposes that Parliament should decide that representatives should sit in the Chamber by parliamentary groups so that, from the right of the President's seat, the order of the groups is as follows: the People's Parliament Group, the Parliament Group of the People's Party, the Christian Democratic Parliament Group, the Swedish Parliament Group, the Parliament Group of the Centre's Parliament, the Party of Business Now, the Group of the Greens, the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Parliamentary Group of the Left, each group within the limits laid down by the Council of Presidents.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! At the opening of the parliament, President Antti For us parliamentarians, Rinne gave a valuable speech on respect for each other and the preservation of democracy. Among other things, the President said: ‘We need to defend the singlerules and the We do it by showing the model, by being as good as our own words. By proving how far we can get by agreeing and working together.” It's been a week and a half since these beautiful words. There is no President Rinne in this Chamber, but do you see the respect of another to the extent that Mrs Rinne stressed it? The most important task of the President is to lead Parliament to work with dignity, to maintain a good working climate, to maintain the dignity of Parliament not only in the eyes of the people, but also among us, regardless of major differences of opinion. However, it must be said to be a great disappointment, President-in-Office, that on the watch of President Rinte a play has been launched in which the second largest party in Parliament is mocked and humiliated through merciless chairplay. There is no criticism here, President. Mr Rinne had the courage to at least listen and moved the matter to the first Vice-President. This does not honor the 100-year tradition of our Parliament, especially those Finns who gave their voice to cooperation less than a month ago to build Finland as the best place for all of us. It is no credit to anyone to start the parliamentary term by discriminating against representatives of one parliamentary party in a way that has never been seen before. Now it is not a question of deciding where to sit in a traditional parliamentary consensus, but of what motives are being used to justify the decision in the eyes of the whole population. Chairman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Lindtman, how is it appropriate to label your colleagues as extreme right-wing MEPs on the basis of your party's values? Where have your party’s doctrines of dignity and respect for neighbor been forgotten?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u7	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! We, the elected representatives of the people, are expected to have dignity in our work and valuable behaviour in deciding matters concerning our country and our people. What do you other representatives elected by the people think: does such a chair play raise the dignity of Parliament and respect for our work?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u10	Madam President! I was going to talk on Friday, but when that opportunity didn't come, I'm going to talk here a little bit ex tempore. I've been in this house for five years now and I'm pretty glad I'm leaving in two months. There is bullying in school, and there is bullying in all appearances. This parliamentary bullying took on new forms now that certain parties were successful and others were not so successful. When we start playing chair games, the people will see that this is rather childish. Let us make some stupid decision with a temporary Council of Presidents and move around here — that is not how it is going to be. That's all I got.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u11	Madam Speaker! It is not appropriate for the authority of the parliament to try to label the party by using the seating order. Nor is it appropriate for the seating order to be changed contrary to the will of the other party, let alone the will of the second largest party. This has never happened before in Finnish history. Historically, the distribution of seats in the Parliament has been taken into account between the left of the hinged axis of the centre and the bourgeois. The change in this historical distribution of seats is now taking place on very poor grounds: mainly on the basis of party opportunism and bullying against the Finns. Such a chair game takes away the dignity and credibility of Parliament. At the same time, this is a signal that other parties no longer comply with the common rules of the century, if the alternative is simply to seek harm for the Finns. The Finns of Peru have dared to be a patriotic and honest defender of the people, and we are therefore punished and disgraced. There are no particularly comprehensive arguments for moving Finns to the right place by other parties. True Finns do not believe in left-wing organizational power or right-wing financial power. Like the right or the left, we are not a lobby party of a particular interest group, but we represent the entire Finnish people. That, of course, is what we understand in this political situation that the coalition and the centre want to move one step left towards the SDP and the left. However, the distribution of seats should not change due to the political situation of the day. It is notable that the new seating arrangement is not justified on the liberal-conservative axis either, since the coalition is now located between Christian Democrats and the Finns. In its simplicity, other parties have put forward a very foolish argument that the seating order in Finland should be consistent with the seating order of the European Parliament. However, we are still in the Finnish Parliament, not in the European Parliament, so why should the European Union go along with this too? EU legislation is superior to Finnish law, and now you want the Finnish Parliament to become a symbolic House of Commons of the European Parliament. It would not have to be so loyal to the EU that even the seating order is copied directly from the European Parliament. It is clear in itself that, when and if the order of sitting is to be copied directly from the European Parliament, it is not clear to anyone that in the new order of sitting the Finns of Peruvian origin represent the interests and nationalism of the right country, while the final room on the left of us represents globalism and the federalism of the EU. Madam Speaker! I am making a motion tabled by the Finns of Finland that the seating order should be maintained, i.e. in order from right to left, the RKP, the Coalition Party, Christian Democrats, the Centre, the Finns of Finland, the Greens, the Social Democrats and the Left Alliance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u12	Mr President! I am the first to support the amendment tabled by Mr Tavio. It has not been so long since President Rinne, who is absent from the Chamber and who has not now come here to carry out his duties, spoke lofty words here with the President of the Republic about respect for others, about working together and about a good atmosphere in Parliament. Now, even though the echo of these speeches has barely disappeared from this Chamber, these speeches will be completely blanked with this proposal from the Council of Presidents. There is bullying at work and school in Finland, they say. Surely it is when we make it a school example in Parliament's Chamber: the majority will move those who are not liked into a corner. What is this other than bullying at school? At the same time, more than half a million Finnish voters who have voted for this party are being shown international fingertips. I'm asking if this is worth it. Do you other people get so much from this sad and outrageous performance that this really is worth doing? We have just given the opportunity to reverse this mistake. We've made a presentation about the old, well-conceived seating arrangement. Each of you colleagues can now make a personal choice: Are you leaving the gym as a bully at work and school or as a lack of bullying? Which one do you want to be remembered for?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u13	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I support the motion made by Ville Tavio. Madam President! 10.4.2019 a very beautiful speech was given here in Parliament. ‘The Varpuset are losing the draft, but are also losing the machine We have seen so many falcons flying around us.” These beautiful words were spoken by Paula Risikko, Speaker of Parliament. I understand you, ladies and gentlemen. We have just had an election, and the outcome of the election has been blood-stopping. According to yesterday's poll, Finns are also the largest party in Finland. [Department : Green Left won! ] The last parliamentary term ended with an argument, a division that also became public. There was crying, there was an appeal in the Committee on Social Affairs. I know that when I was there myself. The procedure was inconceivable. It received feedback in public and from people, from the public in that municipal field, and here too in Parliament we discussed how this is possible. How is it possible that grown - ups quarrel and do not reach reconciliation and reconciliation in proper ways? How can we be an example to the little ones, how can we be legislators and decide things and tell them that this is the right way to act? We're talking about bullying at school, but we're here to pick on ourselves. There is not always room for reason in politics and love, not in money. This is an old saying and wisdom, and it is true here that rationalizing these things cannot necessarily be explained. I would like to ask: why are you making such a move? Without respect, without appreciation for the second largest party in Parliament, you will move us to the other side to sit. What's our chart of values? We see and read the polls, for example Helsingin Sanomat has done them throughout these election years, and we are in the middle. Everyone knows where we stand. Madam President! It would be good to think about why this move is being made. I've heard that RKP has been regretting not showing up on the cameras for years. I'm asking you, ladies and gentlemen of the media: Is it also right that if you don't see one, everyone else has to see it? Isn't that equality and equality, that everyone gets on camera and everyone gets the right to vote? We are democratically elected here. It is not right that when it comes to Question Time, which the people are following and which we are waiting for, because it is the most visible place once a week to be able to tell their thoughts and things and also to become familiar with their own voters, then they will not be able to get on the camera. I understand that it is very difficult to persuade cameras on the right side of the gallery. Can't we do something about it? Can't the media move to that side too, or the camera is here in front so everyone can get to the camera? We are people — we are people — and we feel that way. You don't have to laugh at him if this isn't the case. Everyone wants that part in the media. It's our job and it's our job. But to this course of action: As a mother, I greatly resent this. I could never tell my kids that this is how you do it. Don't ask the guy. Just do what you want. Here, with great power, we are making this move and saying that it is democracy. In my opinion, this is not democracy; it is wrong.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u14	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! The representatives of the Finns Party have made very good speeches here. I can agree with them all and I support Mr Tavio's amendment. I'm gonna start with the fact that I'm really confused about this bench game. For four years I have been sitting here and I have not seen anything like this here; this is actually the culmination. Is this the cooperation that was called for in that election field? I myself went around with many of your representatives, and there was talk that, although there is disagreement, there will be cooperation and not discrimination against others. It doesn't look good. This is a very difficult parliamentary term. We Finns are being treated really unfairly now. I think that is quite clear. Why does everyone else change places and the only one who doesn't want to change is forced to change? It is good to remember, as many here said, that we are, however, the second largest party in Parliament. The people have given us about 540,000 votes. I can't understand this at all. There's a lot of options. Why, for example, do the Coalition Party and the RKP not change places? Why are we the option? We are not close to many party political issues. That it was just us, that I couldn't understand. I recall the last term of government, summer 2017, when we were thrown out of the government. Even then there were such vague reasons. They differed from the basis of value to the fact that we could not be shepherded during social negotiations. That's different, too. We were all the same people, even though we had a change of chairman. By the way, you have noticed that Mr Halla-aho received a huge number of votes and that the people regard him as a very intelligent person, although many other things were wanted to be understood, and that is why we were thrown out of the government. Then there is constant talk of the rule of law, justice, equal treatment. I think this is a mass attack, and all I can think about is when this is gonna end. There's been talk of bullying at school and fair treatment, and I'll sign it all. I would add to these sayings that the big ones, the small ones behind them. We can make laws here and think about funding for the school bully and many more, but we show here that when the big ones come, the big ones will roll and the little ones will be quiet. That is what we are doing here — or perhaps you who will vote according to this new, amended order of business. Yes, I know that if a decision has been made, those grounds will be found anywhere. Now they have been invented from the EU. It may be that the real reason, as Mrs Juvonen pointed out, is television visibility. I also hope that the cameras can be added there, and if we don't show up on TV now, if this changes, then our voice will be heard. I'm afraid you're not going to be able to slow that down. It does, and the public wants to hear it, even if it is not for everyone. I will also speak here to a few representatives. I have worked extremely well together in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for four years and we have sought common positions on very difficult issues. That is why I have been very surprised, for example, by the desire of the Swedish People's Party to move. Mr Henriksson, the representative and party chairman, I respect you as a lawyer and, in fact, I cannot understand why the RKP would even agree to this without a joint decision. In fact, as a former Minister of Justice and a just person and a long-standing member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I appeal to you to consider whether you consider this to be a good way. Would you do this if you were to sit here and reflect on this matter, for example, as a member of the Constitutional Committee and not as chairman of the party? Likewise, Mr Guzenina, you are now the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in these temporary committees, and I say to you that we have worked very well together and I have understood from these discussions that you are a righteous person. I would therefore ask you, for example, to consider whether you will be involved in this vote to remove us. I was thinking about the future and the fact that if the Cong hadn't saved this election day and the Finns of Finland were the biggest party in Parliament, then what if we started doing this kind of thing here, we'd be moving to this extent. It is good to note that this is a precedent for the future. If, in the course of the government negotiations in the future, a winner wants to do this, then the chatter will go away, then we will just move whoever to where, vote and tighten up that you may be able to join us in the government, now that you are involved — that is what it is, that is what it is! Standing places may also be available or places in the gallery.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u17	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say that I support the proposal of the Council of Presidents. With regard to this background, which is why Parliament's seating order has now come under review, the background relates to the very well-founded wish expressed by the RKP during the previous parliamentary term that their place should be reassessed because it is based on historical, technical reasons that have been associated with the proximity of translation services. During the previous period, President Risikko asked for parliamentary groups to assess whether Parliament's seating order was up-to-date and this day. During the last term, the groups stated that there is no reason to go in the middle of the parliamentary term and that this reflection remains for this parliamentary term, for the Parliament that has now begun. When this reflection took place, it turned out that it was difficult to reach an agreement this time and, contrary to what is being said here, it would not have been possible to decide unanimously on the seating order, even the current or the old one, in this Chamber. Therefore, it was clear that one way or another the seating arrangement will and must be determined. Mr President! Then we went over different options. Contrary to what has been suggested here, no group, the largest group has not provided any model or alternative, but the various options were mapped out in the survey of the groups, which the President of the previous parliamentary term had asked the groups to do — the matter itself is within the remit of the Council of Presidents. Admittedly, it is problematic if the seating order is to be set in such a way that groups begin to define each other’s positions. Then it was examined whether there was a model on which to base this new seating arrangement. It turned out that there is a model that has been approved by all parties in this Chamber in the European Parliament and the Nordic Council. There is a model, now the order proposed by the Council of Presidents, which has been approved by all parties in the European Parliament and the Nordic Council. That is the basis on which this proposal from the Council of Presidents is based, and it is clear that if and when we take a model that has been approved by all parties in these other institutions in the international arenas, then that means that this model is not based on it, contrary to what has been claimed here, that other parties are going to start showing places to other parties as if it were. That is why the groups today broadly stated that if the Council of Presidents proposes that the new seating order of the Parliament be based on the seating order of the European Parliament and the Nordic Council, the parliamentary groups will state that any new changes in the seating order will not determine the place of any party in the political field but will be based on the model previously approved by the parties. I would also like to say that it is precisely on this particular record that no one — no party, no party — has been called an extremist right or an equivalent, but it is clear that a party has to sit in the Chamber on the left and a party has to sit in the Chamber on the right. Mr President! For this process: Firstly, it has been suggested, based on the election results of some parties, that this change should not have been made, and it has been suggested that this seating arrangement should be defined according to what is the largest group, so that it can choose first and then move forward in that order. On the other hand, it has been suggested that the seating order should not be based on political cycles. Mr President, the proposal made by the Council of Presidents is now based not on political cycles but on the model adopted by everyone in this Chamber, for example, in the Nordic Council. First of all, it would be technically impossible for each party to determine its place on the basis of the results of the election, and secondly, if it were based on the political cycle, which is something that we want to avoid here. Mr President! The second argument that has been put forward here is that this seating arrangement should only be decided after a permanent Bureau has been elected to Parliament. Well, it is clear that the permanent Bureau in this model of ours will be elected only after the government has been formed. Does anyone think that the parliamentary seating order should wait for the opinion of the government parties or for the formation of a government? I think it is extremely valuable and important for Parliament to be able to take this decision, whether it is unanimous or by voting, just before there is a government in the country, so that it follows Parliament's own practices, and therefore it makes sense that this place should be made. That is why, Mr President, I hope that this issue will be resolved, because this Chamber will certainly have much, much bigger issues to deal with during this parliamentary term. Mr President! Finally, I would like to say that I would, however, like to see the practice maintained that the President would not be criticised in this Chamber, especially when he is not present, or otherwise — when he is unable to participate in the debate. Mr President! Let's solve this. This is based on the sitting order of the European Parliament and the Nordic Council, which has been approved by all parties in this Chamber. If there is a place for Finns on the right of the National Coalition Party in the European Parliament and the Nordic Council, why is it not here in the Finnish Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u18	Madam President! Thank you, Congressman. Lindtman that he was very thorough in opening up the background to this matter and its history. It is always important that when we form a picture, we have an overall idea of what has happened and what is going on. Thank you, Congressman. To Lindtman. Of course, I myself would have liked the first debate to take place here in Parliament on something other than the seating arrangement. Surely the public expects us to answer questions such as the condition of care for the elderly or the livelihood of pensioners, these important questions. [Heckling] President, I think it was an important logical argument that in the European Parliament and in the Nordic Council, it is a good thing for the Finns who sit on the right side of the assembly. If this happens in international fields and this is not considered discrimination or any kind of bullying, then it is a little unclear why here in the Finnish Parliament, when this conflict has to be resolved on some basis and acted on international grounds, it is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u19	Mr President! Thank you for opening the debate, and this could continue with the debate from now on, if you don't mind. Mr Viitanen, as we said, it is not a question of not being able to sit here on the right — this is a good place — but a very simple question, and it is a lack of respect. If we do not want to fully respect other representatives in this House, as has now been done, then of course it will cause such a reaction. Those speeches about not being referred to in terms such as the extreme right are not true. This has been referred to. Mr Lindtman's speech has also hinted in that direction, and here in Parliament and in the corridors it has been said, and even laughed, that you belong to the extreme right. I have heard for myself when representatives, some of you, have used these terms — and I do not mention them. So if there is such a lack of respect in this house, you will understand that this is not good enough for us. Therefore, with all the love that I have worked with eight years of many here: turn this behavior and approach into a different one, so that this four years will not be terribly difficult for all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u20	Mr President! As I have said in that context, the groups have been very calm in dealing with this issue and in such a way that all the groups have been respected during this process. I also believe that the deliberations of the Council of Presidents, in which this proposal has been made, have been a process in which, according to normal democratic rules of play, all different views have been respected. But it is clear that there was now a situation in which, in this Parliament, when this process was put in motion, there was no common position, and that is why one way or another must resolve this. Mr President! I have not used public speeches here, nor have others, to justify this in that this is related to the fact that the Finns of Peru are called or labelled as an extremist right-wing party. It is about someone having to be on the left and someone having to be on the right, and now the foundations of the European Parliament have been found. Mr President! Let me say one more thing to Mr Juvonen,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u21	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u22	Madam President! At the beginning of each session, it must be decided where the different parties and the relevant representatives sit. This is not just a matter that will be decided this time, but it has been decided every time I have started the session, and it has been decided every time before that. Nor is it the case that this reflection on the seating order, where the various parties are, arose after the elections or, as has been claimed, because of the result of the elections. Almost a year ago, as Mr Lindtman well described in his own speech, it was revealed that the Swedish People's Party, which has sat on the right side of the table for historical reasons because of interpretation services, wanted to be more central and that now that the season is beginning, the seats will be looked at again. So here are the historical reasons, namely that historically always seats have been decided at the beginning of the season, and technical reasons. Madam President! What are the grounds for sharing the seats? As has been shown here, in the European Parliament and the Nordic Council, the Finns of Finland belong to groups sitting on the right side of the hall. On their own initiative, on their own initiative and with enthusiasm, the Finns have sought the right place, even so enthusiastically that in public the party chairman, Jussi Halla-aho, has argued that he did not come to Parliament from the beginning of the period, but only after the end of the European Parliament period, because he wants to be involved in forming a new group in the European Parliament on the right side. The question is now that you have listened to what you have said: do you have different speeches outside the borders and within the borders of the country, when outside the borders of the country you have taken your own initiative, your own initiative and your enthusiasm for those places which are now considered to be international places in this Chamber as well?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u25	Madam President! It has been referred to here several times that it is in some way embarrassing that Parliament should start its term of office and open new Parliaments with a debate on the order of sitting. Actually, this isn't embarrassing at all. In fact, this sitting order debate is a great way to start parliamentary work. Why? Because in this debate we are opening up the values of the parties. This is not by chance how parliaments in the world and also in Finland sit. Nor is it a coincidence how we sit in municipal councils and so on. We have different types of values at the bottom that determine this seating arrangement, including the work of the parliamentary committee. The Chairman of the Finns Party Halla-aho has said that this debate is squatting, and this is an arbitrary debate. In this debate, we have heard terms such as ‘school bullying’ that there is a question of ‘torture’. Thisisamorehearing‘valueless play’,there is a The representative quoted the Finnish proverbs, and at least one of them That was a nice thing to say at this point. I ask the Finns: Why are you ashamed and covering up your values? Be fair and honest about what you are, we give it our dignity, and here I quote the old Finnish saying: “I recognize your own state, even for those who have given values. “ That is the starting point. Since the French Revolution, a seating order has been placed on the basis of this value at the national assemblies. It has once created a right-wing division between monarchists and more radical liberals, who were fiercely in favour of freedom, brotherhood and equality. On this basis, the right-wing split has arisen, and on that basis we are constantly having a debate between the right-wing parties and the left-wing parties. Why do we have to get rid of this when it is a genuine part of our political culture? Let's identify that situation of ours and give each other a value on this basis. This is the starting point. Let's take a look at the international field now if you can't talk about the Finnish field, even though you can also see this Finnish blur. In what way in the European political field is the newness — we are now going to use this term, and often we are also talking about extremist parties — to define our own values? They speak of ‘human filth from the Horn of Africa’. They speak in these terms. Multiculturalism is alienated. They have the ‘ethnic homogeneity’ of the term used. Let's visit the minorities. Nationalism has been distorted into foreign hatred. These are the values of the new world, and when we talk about economic policy, which has also been referred to frequently, there is corporatism in the background. This is a definition of the value base and of the debate, which is reflected in the European debate. I cannot appeal to anything other than the Finnish Parliament: identify your situation and give value to all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u26	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of the Finnish people! I was in this same room in the spring of 1979 and I voted in favour of Veikko Vennamo’s Finnish Rural Party being placed on the right side of the hall. That vote had a strong taste for the vessel. This is because the Finnish Rural Party was primarily a social populist party. In Finland, which was Finnish in the 1970s, the fact that the party was a so-called anti-Kekkos party was enough to be right-wing. Furthermore, the representatives of the party did not speak of the Soviet Union, of that appalling dictatorship and of the prison of the peoples, as beautifully as we did of the other parties. I do not believe that the President-in-Office's proposal before us has the same taste for a vessel. The Finnish People's Party today is not the same as Veikko Vennamo's Finnish Rural Party. It is natural that the location of Finnish Finns in the Finnish Parliament is similar to that of a party and similar parties in the Nordic Council and in the European Parliament. In this context, I think that Mr Lindtman has made the argument for this solution much better than Mr Kimmo Kiljunen. As far as respect and cooperation are concerned, at the last sitting, the President removed the matter from the agenda precisely because it had been decided within the Council of Presidents that there would still be an attempt to find an agreement among all parties. To this end, the group presidents were held today and, although there was a serious and good attempt to achieve unity, it was unfortunately not possible to find it. However, that meeting concluded that this change, which is now at hand, is not intended to determine the location of any party on a political map contrary to the party’s own interpretation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! As such a newly elected Member of Parliament, I would like to be somewhat surprised at the way in which this decision has now been taken, in comparison with the very speeches made at the opening of Parliament about cooperation, about compromises, about a good job. This is the kind of thing that I did not wish to see this situation in this Chamber so quickly. Here Mr Lindtman has put forward arguments — even good in the opinion of others — as to why we Finns are now being transferred against our will to the right side, but I am surprised why. If this left the RKP's desire to move away from the right side, why didn't they just move their place here? Why, then, are the Finns being transferred in the same context, unexpectedly and unsolicited? At the same time, you could think about it — this institution is valuable, and these traditions that exist in this house I hold in high esteem — does this now mean that we can all move the galleries differently, move seats in committees as well? I would like to point out to Mrs Kiljunen that you should get to know the Finns of Finland if you have such a wrong idea about us and our values. [KimmoKiljuen intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u28	Madam President! I am speaking here on the right side of the hall because I feel that I am there at home and I am not stigmatised in any wrong way. However, it has to be said that, although many rather provocative speeches have now been made in this Chamber, the content of which I do not believe in as a general rule, let this be a conservative who believes in institutions and traditions. We have certain institutions, certain traditions, whose task is specifically to protect us, each one of us, from arbitrary interference, so that there are some sort of clear rules of play to proceed with. One such institution is a parliament, and Parliament, as the supreme legislative institution, of course, plays a central role in caring for its own dignity and authority. We have certain traditions here, which relate to the seating order, and I believe that this seating arrangement is something that should not be more than a political profiling than a stigmatisation of political rivals. There are signs of both in this proposal by the Council of Presidents and in the process behind it. There are signs of the desire of one parliamentary group to profile themselves in a new way, more in the middle of this Chamber. On the other hand, there are signs which echoed, for example, in Mr Kiljunen's speech, as a desire to label another parliamentary group in a way that this parliamentary group does not consider to be its own natural political place. Now, obviously, this seating arrangement, which has been a traditional one here, has, however, been able to form a difference of opinion. There was no agreement on where to sit and it may be that in any case there was a situation in which Parliament is unable to decide unanimously where the political groups are to be located in this Chamber. However, I believe that if this House, this group, cannot reach agreement, agreement on the order in which it sits, then I believe that the traditional order should be followed. I have acted in all the arenas where I, as an individual Member of Parliament and as a member of my group, have been able to act, in favour of either a unanimous solution being reached or, if not a unanimous solution, there would then be a respected tradition. Now, however, it seems that the majority of Parliament will vote for a seating order that does not correspond to the tradition of Parliament and which goes against the wish of a particular political group to have its own seat, to retain it. I think that is a rather unfortunate precedent, and I am a little afraid that if this Parliament, as it now appears, opens this game, then a similar play will have to be seen in four years and eight years and so on, and I do not think that such pandora boxes should be opened. Now that Pandora's box has probably been opened, and such votes will continue to be seen, and it may be that many who are now in favour of this change in seating order will regret this matter when the next vote is taken on this occasion, now that a vote-like way seems to come. This is very unfortunate. However, as one of the controversies, which I do not think is very much related to the substance dance itself, I would like to say that, when several speeches have been made here, we are now in the process of bringing in a seating order such as that of the European Parliament and the Nordic Council, so let us put it to the test, because this is not the order that has been presented today, the Nordic Council or the European Parliament itself. These multinational parliamentary organisations also have certain rules on the kind of groups that can form a group by definition. It requires a certain number of representatives, a certain number of parties and nationalities, and so on, in order to form a group of parties in these multinational parliamentary organisations, and if these conditions are not met, then those who have not succeeded in forming the group will in fact be placed in the right place, both in the Nordic Council and in the European Parliament. If this arrangement as such were to be brought to Finland, it would actually mean that the Movement Now, which is not a party at all, would be defined as such a groupless group, which would then sit here on the right side. In other words, this is not the case here, and I find it rather regrettable that we are in a situation like this. This is the speech I wanted to make for history books in order to make it known that I was not very sympathetic to such a decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u29	Värderade fru talman, Madam President! In fact, Mr Lindtman has already described this process very well, what has happened and what is behind this proposal by the Council of Presidents. I would like to start by saying that I therefore support the proposal of the Council of Presidents. In a few words, however, I would like to say a little about why the RKP, the Swedish Parliamentary Group, in autumn 2018, raised this issue, that our place is somewhere in the middle of the hall, and that has been our request and our wish all along. This is our place in the previous Parliament and for 87 years it has been based on the fact that the representatives of the RKP, the Swedish Parliament Group, must sit at the edge of the Chamber, because it is the easiest place to organise interpreting services. Thanks to modern technology, this is not necessary and there has not been such a need for many years now. We think it is important that, if and since the seating order in this Chamber reflects the party map, our place is not so-called a different place, but on exactly the same grounds we have to find our place as other parties and groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u30	Mr President! According to the economic survey, our seat — that is, the seat of the people living in Finland — lies between the SDP and the centre of Finland. The study clearly states that the Finns of Peru are the Nationalist Labour Party of the Centre-Left. Mr Kiljunen, we have also really answered those questions about the Hesar value map, and that is where we are always in the middle. You can check it there. We are a conservative party, but on the economic axis we are in the middle. We already had a seating order in this room, a tradition of about a hundred years, we already had a seating order in this room. I understand, Mr Blomqvist, that the RKP is not behind this, but the other parties thought that we are now going to have the opportunity to squat on the Finns: Let's move the only group that doesn't want to move anywhere, to the other side. When they have been at about this point, then they are moved to the right and then taken and discussed with the Swedish People’s Party. I also understand that you want to discuss this issue. It is not a question of that, but it is a question of us having opened up the chair game now, and whoever takes up the chair game can take it. Even Congressman Arhinmäki can sometimes find himself right there.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u34	Madam President! First of all, I have to thank Rydman for a really good speech. That's where the things came in the way they really are. As such a new Member of Parliament, I do not really understand the way things work here — I mean this yelling, which comes on all the time when someone is talking. I do not really understand that we are at the level: we are paid over EUR 6,000 a month and so on, and we need to be at the level of shouting from there when others talk. If you can't keep the noise in your stomach, then you go to a coffee shop sometimes, because I don't think it's appropriate for this authority to be shouted out all the time. For the new parliamentarians — more than 80 of them — I would say that the majority of you have probably been voted here because you want to change this job. Now, I think that if we take the line that here, so to speak, the coconut boys and girls are going to decide, for example, where one party is sitting, then you will not go along with the game and be the so-called second voice of the conkarts, but you will be making sovereign decisions as to whether you are here in favour of moving one party. But now, if we are moved to the very right side and for that reason, as Mr Kiljunen has said here, that we are a little bit of the extreme right, then hopefully one desk will be brought to that right-hand side to the demars' own representative, Mr Hussein al-Tae. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u35	Let us continue on the list of speakers, Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u36	Madam President! This is the first actual day of the sitting that seems to be going on in these circumstances, but we are now having this debate today, after we have come to this. A few comments on this. Mr Zyskowicz, you very well spoke of this vessel-flavoured decision in 1979, but when you mentioned that when it criticised the actions of Vennamo against Kekkos or anti-Sovietism, and it was not noticed then, 40 years ago, that it was on the right track, what do you think, in 40 years' time, is going to think about whether there could be any other aspect of this, such as the fact that they would be replaced by multiculturalism and the European Union? Such critical talk is not tolerated very easily and especially by the Finns, and this is the similarity I found here. But then Mr Rydman gave a good speech on the fact that there will certainly be a vote here in the future on a number of other so-called lesser-valued issues, and this could cause discord for the whole parliamentary term, not just in Parliament but in the whole country, in councils and elsewhere, because there was a clear message here that there was no respect. And although Mr Lindtman tried to smooth out his own words that this is not about using or referring to the extreme right-wing term, your colleague, Mr Kiljunen, confirmed it in his own words that the real motive is discriminatory and anti-social democrats. You want to create an image of right-wing right-wingism for the people in this seating arrangement, and so you should appear as the Labour Party itself without success. Yes, these seats matter. During the parliamentary term, we will hear, especially during Question Time, who sits on the right and who sits on the left and what kind of politics is pursued on the right and on the left. This is a very long tradition in this Chamber, and in that sense seating is also important. But, Madam President, let us return to this original order of sittings and chairs. After all, we were presented to our party — we discussed a motion last week — that there were three options in which the RKP sits in the middle of different places, and we had them all. There was still a seating arrangement for the assembly, so that they would just move a little more to the right, and then at some point this changed. When we were good enough for all those performances, all that happened to us was that we were moving in the middle of somewhere and RKP came to this, so I don't understand when that one performance then turned into another. Well, then who figured this one out? This one's not good enough? The likely answer certainly is that it did not happen to the assembly after all, this right move, to any extent, because it was feared that we would probably be left out of television cameras,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u43	Madam President! Yes, there is an explanation in these speeches, but that is also a matter of politics and parliament. Parliament and Finland need willerydmans. School bullying just needs Willerydmans. Think of it if school bullying were to be interfered in the same way, that is, by force everyone says that we are not bullying, and no one intervenes, and then someone comes up and says, "Hey, let's see how this thing went." It is courageous to come from that party and tell them that they feel that this may not be so clear and clear, and wonders whether we are going to do it entirely in accordance with fair principles. Great, Wille Rydman, thank you for your speech! I quite agree that if we do not reach agreement here, then we will stick to the old line and respect those traditions. We are in Finland, we have a strong tradition here in Parliament. It is important that everyone has their own seat, and it is indeed ridiculous that these seats should at least be discussed. There was talk of opening the Pandora's box, and it is, by the way, terribly important that this too be taken into account. At the end of the last period, I took a bill for a military accident and service-related law that came into force from the beginning of the year. It gives compensation to the garrison if something happens in the army. However, we have a period of darkness back when the garrison has not been compensated, and I also made another bill to suggest that the compensation is paid retroactively. I was justified here in Parliament when the matter was being dealt with that we cannot open such a Pandora's box, because if we now allow it, then soon someone else will come who also demands retroactivity. It's just like this. Who knows where you'll be sitting next season. If we went in the way we do today in working life, we would have open offices, and when a person comes to work or to a session in the morning, he will take the place he can get. We would have full freedom to choose those places. Everyone would take the most meaningful place. This is the way it is today in the workplace, and it is not asked, and there is no question in the openrooms, they put the workers there. Why can't we take a model here so that everyone takes the place they can get? It would then be equal and everyone would be able to take turns in the front seat. Anyone who wants to sit in the back seat could sit there. My mother said don't you, Arja, worry, a good horse can be seen from under a bad leg. It must be such a savoan proverb when there are roots there. That is, even if you are in the dark or if you are behind the cameras, the voice is heard to the last and the speeches, actions and actions are decisive. This course of action, which is now under discussion in Parliament, is wrong, and you all know that such decisions should not be taken. I'm sure it'll go against the sense of justice of many of you. It is not right without consulting one group, without respecting the opinion of one group, to make such transfers. I understand the RKP as a small group, and you have been there, and, as you said, respecting tradition, for over 80 years, you have been sitting there, and there have also been interpretation services. However, I do think it is necessary that these interpreting services should be, and it is a good thing that it is consistent and continuous. I think we should stay in this old seating order and remember that we are in the Finnish Parliament, we are in the Parliament, we are not in the Nordic Council, we are not in the EU. They are the kind of donkey bridges and cane horses that try to justify this to the people and just like underestimating it if we feel that we are being bullied. After all, every reasonable person — and there are reasonable people here — understands that this is not the case. It is a question of principle and of feeling how I feel, of how we feel when, without respect for the opinion of our group, you other groups by force — because there is power among them — make such a move. And it annoys me, it feels bad, it upsets me, and it is unfair, and it is simply wrong. It's wrong. There are very important topics coming up: Yes, care for the elderly. Yes, more nurses. I should have been the first priority debate here about how we together bring a nurse’s appointment to 0.7 laws. One of the most important things.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u48	Mr President! School bullying — probably of all the school bullies this play seems to be a carnival of a serious phenomenon. Mr Juvonen, the Pandora’s Box, the box from which all the world’s plague and disaster originated: are we really at this kind of question now? Some sense of proportion in this house too, or we will not be able to cope with all the challenges that we should be able to resolve over the next four years. Mr President! A few words about what is the extreme right. The study, on the far right, has repeatedly described the European framework of reference for Finns. The definition of the extreme right does not relate to the economic right-wing split and cannot therefore be justified or left unfounded in any of the Hesar values map. The extreme right represents the party’s relationship with authoritarianism, nationalism, human rights and the rule of law. It is typical of pragmatism, well-being and conservatism. So, are the Finns of Peru are extreme right-wing? The right-wing concept has also been used in the study, but in politics a good and wise starting point is to rely on the self-definition of each party, no matter how original. Mr President! What, then, does the sitting order of the Parliament mean? Traditionally it describes the social order of this house, and that is why it is not a trivial and petty matter in itself. When the order of sitting is decided in this house at the beginning of the new season, the social order within the house is also decided. That is why it is not a question of the individual opinion of any one party or individual representative; it is a question of a joint decision. Parliament’s seating arrangement is an old practice, and it often makes it difficult for modern people to grasp it. We live in a world where there are hardly any other similar systems of social order. In the past, for example, there was a similar system in the churches, and everyone was familiar with it, and when people saw the plenary session, they knew directly from the place what kind of person or party it was. In my view, this confusion is largely due to the fact that the original meaning of this whole system is no longer so clear in everyone’s mind — not in this Chamber, and certainly not outside it. During the past two years, the Finns of Peru have explicitly and on their own initiative, i.e. explicitly and on their own initiative, changed the course of their policies, and in terms of political interdependence it affects the whole. It requires that other parties also position themselves in relation to the Finns of Finland according to their new line. And this is exactly what is to be done when we rethink the order of this hall, among other things. Well, there's... [Heckling] I would see it as a problem if it were a precedent for changing places in depth, because in the seating order of the hall, the direction of depth also means hierarchy, and then it would place parties in unequal positions. For this reason, I find it problematic, for example, that shrapnel parties are often placed in the back of the hall, and I found it problematic that the Finns of Finland, when it was still a lilliput party, were located there at the back of the hall, regardless of the seniority of the representatives. Instead, I do not think that the fact that parties change places in width is new, is not a precedent or anything startling.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u49	Madam President! It's a little funny, isn't it? The debate will begin as if we were talking about a technical matter, a seating arrangement. Let's talk about dignity, what we decide together here or what we don't decide. But all you have to do is tickle you a little bit, and from there it goes to the value base and the human image. And you also know how to use it in a rather sovereign way. Sometimes you take the view that this is just a sitting order and that it is the same where you sit, and then in the next moment it is human rights, human dignity, extreme right-wingism and so on. Now, for God's sakes, decide why you want to change this seating arrangement. Mr Kiljunen gave me this speech, which he had just given here, before the last plenary session on that side of the diner. It was a matter of value. It's not the right, it's not the left. It's the value base. Yes. I can tell you that you can plant us on that floor, but our value base will continue to be that, in a country called Finland, in the Finnish Parliament, we hold the interests of Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u52	Madam President! This is nothing more than the opening of the Finnish campaign for the European elections. You can see it right here in the hall. The representatives of the True Finns will claim how they are discriminated against and bullied, and they will be hurt, but when you go a few ten meters to the diner, they will laugh on the side and say that it will all rain on the plate of the Finns. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u53	Let's stick to the list of speakers for a while now, at least.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u54	Madam President! This chair game is familiar to many of us from childhood. True, it was always the case that someone was always without a chair, but now it's a little different and there are plenty of places for everyone. It is clear that we have more to do than vary places. The old system would be much better. At the same time, I am also surprised at the power that the EU seems to have even in our seating order. Is it really the case that the EU defines where we are sitting and whether this will perhaps come to the municipal councils and the city councils and change seats there too? In my own town, I sit in the council, and on the other side there is a representative of the Left Alliance, on the other side there is a Social Democratic representative. I don't think there's a problem with that. Indeed, it is strange that this matter has received too great a tune. There are many more, more important things. I would see that it would be much more important for us to talk about family care.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u55	Madam President! It's a worthless parliament! We're the extreme right? Representative Kimmo Kiljunen of the Social Democrats tried to create the impression that we belong to some evil group, a group that does not like multiculturalism, and that the reason why we are evil is linked to this particular fact that we are opposed to multiculturalism. He called for the importance of the debate on values, because in reality, for example, this division of seats is also about those values. Our values are such that we defend Finns and we oppose the mild phenomena of multiculturalism. I myself come from Oulu, a city that has been in the headlines precisely because there are 29 sexual criminal investigations going on there. There are serious crimes against children in relation to men of foreign background, and this has become commonplace for us. It is no coincidence that our party wants to oppose such things. I do not know what the Social Democrats are thinking, but this is our line. In Oulu, too, in the mosque, the imam protected the perpetrator who had sexually abused the child. By the way, there is this mosque imam, a former demarcist politician. These really are the differences in the value base. We have very big differences, but when we talk about this division, it has not traditionally gone by the division that immigration-critical versus immigration-liberal. But if you come to move us to that other side, then you can say that it may be a little easier for us to be that option from there, even visually, and to shoot all the way in this direction for the next four years. I would like to emphasise once again that there is absolutely no evil in speaking against multiculturalism, precisely polyculture, because it brings so much evil. That's where I was texting, and one of the girls was texting through Instagram, and she said, "Hey! I've noticed you're really taking these messages from people to you. So I thought I'd tell you my own experience, and I really hope you're trying to take these things forward and make a difference. You seem to have received a lot of messages from us in Oulu too, and I have to say that I haven't had very good experiences with them either. In secondary school, a new class of asylum seekers came to our school. We were told that they were some young people between the ages of 15 and 17, but in reality none of them looked even older. One of them was at least 18 years old, and a picture of his own country identity card was found on one Instagram account. I think he had something about 24 years old. Yes, these immigrants were also interested in looking at the body parts of girls and commenting on them. The worst thing about it was that when we told the principal at school about it and said it was disturbing, we were not believed and the principal only continued to defend immigrants. I've seen this too many times, for example. In Oulu, in White, when there are little girls sitting with these mamas. I have also experienced that when you walk past them, they stare like a cheap sausage on a meat counter and may just comment on something. Their culture is so different and crazy,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u59	Mr President! A number of speeches have been made here, claiming that Mr Kiljunen has branded representatives or parties on a value-based basis. Firstly, I would like to correct the fact that there are two of us, and I assume that these references have been linked to my earlier speech. I want to say clearly that I have not wanted to label anyone. The only stamp I have used — and we have all been using it constantly here, and we are sitting in the order in which we have been labelled — is this traditional left-wing right-wing split. It's also a stamp. It is a political symbol that we can openly accept here. Instead, in my previous speech, I did so by listing some of the declarations of values of the European resounding. If there was any familiarity, each one can react. If a person reacts to the fact that it is the way to label some in this hall, then ‘the dog is going to be sent, which is going to explode’. There is a lot of reference here to these Finnish proverbs. I didn't want to stamp. I was just listing what's on the value base of the rerun. Mr Tynkkynen has also just referred to this, to some of the statements I made, and on this basis, of course, we can continue the debate. More interesting, however, was Mrs Huhtasaari's comment when she went through the article by Mrs Pullinen, the political editor of Helsingin Sanomat's message, which built a four-field that tried to be some kind of objective overview of what this political division in the four-field matrix might be in Parliament. In that matrix the Finnish Party clearly defines itself as a conservative right party — it is quite clear the division, it is able to look through — where such right-wing conservative values prevail, and in the opposite corner there is a left-wing liberal perspective. This was the way the matrix field was built. If the same thing starts to be built up in this hall work, including the municipal councils, to which reference has been made, then it will in some way reflect the objective analysis that Helsingin Sanomat has at least sought out there. Apparently, it was determined by the positions taken from the election machine, [Department:Where is the assembly? ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u60	Madam President! It has been interesting to follow this self-suggesting of the Finns Party, which has now been here for almost two hours. It is a new, modern way of starting parliamentary debates, that one party defines the content of the party in a slightly different way at the mouth of different speakers. I have noticed that it is very difficult to define it within the party. Some clearly feel that they are centerers, others say that there is actually a good place on the extreme right. Of course, I understand that the representatives of the Finnish Sisu, which is defined as the extreme right-wing organisation of the protection police, find themselves on the extreme right-hand side as a natural place. Madam President! Some of the People’s Party’s representatives have been hard at interlude and others have criticized the interlude. It has been said at the same time that we should stick to tradition and then criticized that we should stick to tradition. I can say this when it was wondered why they were shouting here, that I remember that when I came to Parliament myself, the first instruction that Seppo Tiitinen, then Secretary-General, said was that the interlocutory calls were part of parliamentaryism. In fact, as a friend of British parliamentarianism, I would like to see our sessions much more colorful and powerful than these time Nordic-Luterian boring grey sessions, which are often the case. Madam President! I agree with Mr Juvonen and those Finns who said that, for example, the services of the elderly and informal care would have been such themes that it would have been good to be at the forefront of the debate, but when, because of tradition and tradition, the seating order is chosen first — never before has it been discussed — so now the Finnish People’s Party and its representatives have chosen — the first nine speakers were from the Finnish People’s Party — that the theme that is the first to be widely discussed is not care for the elderly or other matters that concern the Finns, but the seating order. Mr President! I would just like to correct one thing for Mr Juvonen: The long-awaited and desirable and praised Act on Elderly Services was adopted in 2011-2015. Unfortunately, it did not define a nurse’s dimension. Instead, in the government programme, which you voted for, Mr Juvonen, there was a decision to weaken the carer’s dimension to 0.4. Fortunately, because of opposition from the opposition, it never came into force, but you accepted it and have been involved in weakening the nurseship. The old-age service law was such that the Katainen government actually approved it quite unanimously here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u61	And another list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u62	Madam President! There have been quite a few nuanced phrases in this debate, but there has also been a rise in change and policy. I am a little concerned that now that we have wanted to change it, it has not been good enough for this gym, and we have not had the opportunity now, according to this policy, to have a meaningful debate that would have actually been a solution-centred one, in which we really would have liked to have held a smaller side to it. That is why I would like us to make changes in this Chamber for four years so that we can build bridges, not walls, for the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u63	Madam President! I'm going back to that nurse thing. During the period 2011-2015, the quality recommendation for services for older people was weakened from the 2008 level and figures from 0.5 to 0.8 to 0.5. This was done in the quality recommendation, which came into force in July. We were at the sitting at the time, and I guess I was the only one who put a written question to it and took a position. In other words, the reduction in the number of carers was made between 2011 and 2015, when you were on the board, and the quality recommendation was lowered to 0.5. It has remained at 0.5 to this day, and the previous government tried to weaken it to 0.4, but when we said that this measure was shocking and unreasonable,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u68	As a general observation, the issues have, of course, gone a long way from scratch. Next time, let's try to stay on the topic we're talking about. Now we have to take a break because we're voting. So everyone can get back here, ten minutes off. The session is resumed on 16.05.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u69	In the debate, Ville Tavio Jani Mäkelä has suggested that the representatives sit in the Chamber in the old seating order of the parliamentary groups so that, from the seat of the President, the order of the groups is as follows: the Swedish Parliamentary Group, the Parliamentary Group for the Coalition Party, the Parliamentary Group for the Christian Democratic Party, the Parliamentary Group for the Centre, the Parliamentary Group for the Movement Now, the Parliamentary Group for the Basic Finns, the Green Parliamentary Group, the Parliamentary Group for the Social Democratic Party and the Parliamentary Group for the Left, each group within the limits laid down by the Council of Presidents.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u70	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u71	Mr President! Sitra's Annual Activity Report for the past year will be submitted to Parliament. I ended up with a presentation on this. Despite the fact that the elections have been held, the Parliament’s Banking Council and Sitra’s Board of Directors, which are of the same composition, will continue to exist until the new Banking Council is set up. After all, Sitra is a future house that implements both ideas and ideas. It is said that it is not just a 'thinktank 'vansoon'think jado' in both of this. This has received strong support and support from this Parliament in recent years. Over the decades, Sitra’s approach and its focus have varied over different periods. In time there was a phase in which Sitra was perhaps a venture investor above all else, but for a long time now it has been such an idea and implementer, above all a future house. For last year Sitra focused above all on three major headlines: promoting a carbon-neutral circular economy, the ability of society to reform, and a new working life and a sustainable economy. More detailed descriptions of these can be found in this Sitra Annual Report. The most important part of Sitra's financial statements last year was that the profit and loss account shows losses of just under EUR 12 million. This in a certain way describes the nature of Sitra very naturally. Sitra has many years of projects. In the second year, Sitra’s surplus was over 8 million, and last year a deficit arose. This is largely due to the fact that several years of projects could not be started so quickly and the use of the money earmarked for 17 only took place during the last year. Sitra’s balance sheet is still well over EUR 700 million. After all, Sitra finances its operations with the proceeds of the assets in this balance sheet. In this respect, Sitra is an independent house, and this independence has been emphasised in every way. But I actually asked for this speech because, at the end of the last parliamentary term, we had a parliamentary working group working for us, which, for the first time in Sitra's 50-year history, went through the potential need for reform in connection with Sitra's activities. Firstly, during the last four years, there was a very extensive evaluation of Sitra’s activities, an external evaluation that was carried out, one can say, by sector, through its activities, and then in the final phase of this first year such an external evaluation of Sitra was obtained. This parliamentary working group had no particular need to change this basic idea of Sitra's activities. It was found that it is very important that the impact assessment be continued. Instead, the group ended up with unanimous proposals that would then end up amending the Sitra law, and this will be on the table of a new government to be appointed, once we see what kind of government will work in the next few years. This working group's proposal for a new law aims to make changes to Sitra's administration. The first thing that the working group is proposing, and which concerns Parliament above all, is that, instead of being the Board of Directors of Sitra over the past 50 years, the Parliament’s Banking Council has also acted as the Board of Directors of Sitra, Sitra would have its own separate Board of Directors, whose composition could vary by electoral term according to the decision of the Parliament. Small changes in the composition of the Board will also be proposed, as well as changes in the position of Sitra's Senior Ombudsman, so that he would no longer be a member of Sitra's Board of Directors but would act as a rapporteur for the Board. These unanimous proposals of the working group, I hope – or at least my wish is that – could be prepared by a new, appointed government during the beginning of the summer, and during the autumn session Parliament could deal with the changes to the Sitra Act so that the new Board of Directors and the new Board of Directors could be set up at the beginning of next year in the same context as Sitra's Chief Ombudsman changes. Of course, the important thing for Sitra is that there has been a new Chief Agent in the search process and at the end of next summer, at the beginning of autumn, Sitra will have to make a decision on a new Chief Agent.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u72	Mr President! That is where Mr Vanhanen well opened up this background also in this case, what discussions have been held about Sitra, its status and its future. I have also had the opportunity to be a member of that working group which defined these issues at the end of the last period. I think it is important to say what Mr Vanhanen said in that statement that, in agreement with this working group, we decided that Sitra's legislation should be reformed and that the tasks of Sitra's Board of Directors and the Board of Directors should also be reviewed so that I feel that the position of both of them should be strengthened in a modern way. This is a good and important issue, and in this respect it is also important that we get to reform this Sitra law in the early stages of this period. Two things I want to raise here: First of all, the definition of Sitra's tasks and activities related to this law. Since time was short, we did not go to the working group to think verbatim about what this new task definition, which would be included in the law, contained, but the working group also clearly saw the need to develop this in a way that this task definition would better reflect on the current operating environment and Sitra’s remit. We therefore welcome further preparation for the fact that this task would no longer be defined in a specific way from an economic point of view, but would include various elements in the fight against social inequality, justice, equality, the promotion of democracy and sustainable development. Of this, we did have a unified view of the need for such a movement, and in fact we obliged the Ministry of Finance, together with the parliamentary groups, to negotiate this issue and also to continue to prepare it on that basis. Another issue that we discussed in the group, but which we did not record for lack of time and which we could not agree on in that time was how we will define the appropriate size for Sitra's balance sheet and use of resources in the future. But here, too, we saw a clear need and we also noted a certain degree of mobility, which in these matters today is already the only thing that Sitra's Board of Directors has decided to do, and I think it is important that this whole is also dealt with in this immediate preparation. On this basis, President, it is good to note that the development of Sitra, the redefinition of its tasks and the necessary administrative reforms, as unanimously proposed by the working group, will be taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u73	Mr President! Mr Vanhanen and Mr Viitane have already expressed this work of the parliamentary working group, in which I was also allowed to participate. I felt it was important that all parties were able to set guidelines for Sitra and, above all, to change the governance structure in such a way that Parliament can also influence Sitra's activities more strongly. This is perhaps a good idea for Sitra to understand that Sitra is not just a think tank. That is also true, of course, but above all it has this do-it-do side, and it also has a reasonable amount of resources for it. In other words, it is as if it makes it exceptional that when it receives ideas that it can take advantage of the various societal challenges that Mr Viitanen listed here quite a bit, and many others, it can also put it into practice and it has the resources to try it out and thus develop society. This is a unique operating concept, which has happened in this society as a result of some coincidences, when, with the increase in the value of Nokia shares, Sitra has the resources to do this work. I think this is very good that we have this kind of tool in use, especially since Sitra will then be able to react more quickly than again at the ministerial level or in the state administration traditionally able to act. I believe that this working group's work was also a good basis for the future government as regards what will be done about Sitra in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u74	Mr President! After all, the Finnish Year of Independence Fund was founded in 1967 and received its capital from Nokia’s shares at the time and has increased to this day. As Mr Vanhanen presented in his own good speech, the economy is strong and solid and Sitra is indeed able to implement in our society those projects and projects that take a stand on new issues and explore things that perhaps other actors would not have an economic opportunity. I am very much in favour of Sitra continuing to be a strong independent actor in Finnish society and doing valuable work for the future of Finland and Finns. Equally important is that Sitra’s independence is safeguarded so that this administration is reformed on the basis of the working group’s work, so that it can have an independent Board of Directors and the Board of Directors, and then Parliament will adopt the laws to ensure that Sitra’s independent strong position is safeguarded. It is an extremely important issue for Finns and Finns. Finally, Mr President, I would also like us to ensure, through our own actions in this House, that Sitra’s capital will remain there and, I hope, will continue to increase in order to be able to challenge and take up challenges in the future and to investigate these issues, which other social organisations do not really have the opportunity to investigate when the funds are limited. I warmly support this reform of Sitra's administration. Above all, as well described by Matti Vanhanen, Chairman of the Bank of Finland's Banking Council, this independence of the administration on the basis of a jointly agreed working group is a very good thing and a strong aim for the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u75	Mr President! Mr Vanhanen and Mr Vanhanen The reference has well justified the need for change needed for Sitra’s administration. I myself have experience mainly in the late 1990s, when the Banking Council was linked to Sitra’s Board of Directors, and Sitra’s character was more of that venture capital activity. At the time it was fitting that the same bank council then watched that the assets of Nokia and others were safely invested and that there were no excessive risks involved in that investment, and the capital grew just fine then and then. But now the role of Sitra as such a semi-official think-tank has actually called for a balance. At least from this point of view, there has been a time that has often gone with the winds of time and made such fashionable policies and perhaps not very wide-ranging social policy surveys. I hope that this change in the administration will broaden that view so that there can be different views on these projects and studies as well. This development of Sitra’s administration highlights the imbalance that is in favour of other ownership policy. During the current government period, the investments of state ownership have been made further away from the budgetary power of the Parliament, and it is high time that the government's corporate governance was also examined how changes on that side would be made in the same way as this kind of more democratic governance for Sitra. And for this future government, I would like a quick job in that sector. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u76	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. — First speech to the chairman of the board of the library, Mr Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u77	Mr President! The Library of Parliament serves the Parliament and the whole Finnish society. It acts as the central archive of Parliament and as a public central library providing information on social and parliamentary matters. The operation of the library is governed by the Act on the Library of Parliament, the Statute of the Parliamentary Office and the Statute of the Parliamentary Library. The Library of Parliament is open to all citizens. This information is still a surprise to many. In its previous report on the Library’s report, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs stated: ‘The Library of the Economy is capable of serving well-being,researchers andexperts as well as learners andstudents to meet citizens’ needs for information’. There is an inevitable change in the use of the library and information. Localisation is decreasing, but at the same time distance and expert services are more and more sought-after. The library participates in the decision-making information support project launched in 2018, which aims to identify Parliament's data needs and ways of using information. The information obtained through the survey will be used to develop services. An important development target for the library is the development of electronic library services in Parliament. The open data service of the Parliament was published in the reporting year. You can search, view and download the contents of the public online services of the Parliament through the open data web service. From 2015 onwards, the service will contain parliamentary documents in machine-readable form. Veteran MPs' memory archive was awarded as a year's archive in connection with the Nordic Archive Day. This is a fine expression of appreciation for the decision taken by Parliament to collect the interview material. Work has been done since 1988. There have been 430 R & D interviews, and in 2016 we decided that interviews can also be conducted with seated MPs at the discretion of the researcher and with resources – there is currently an interview with Ilkka Kanerva. In 2018, 18 new information packages of Law Projects were published. These so-called 'Latin' packages are appreciated in the context of legislative projects. They complement legislative proposals with news, legal comparison and literature. During the year, the library's information service dealt with over 1,400 assignments. Some of these assignments were quickly resolved, others required several working days and many experts' input. Mr President! In this context, I would like to make a few comments on the latest report by the Committee on the Future, which was discussed here in the past winter. The committee notes that ‘more detailed texts and reciprocally produce such self-sustaining studies have led to an amazingly rapid deterioration. Another observation from the Future Committee:‘Continued flooding will reduce the need for And thirdly:‘In society, the potential for non-Digitalisation-free areas For example, it is also important to invest in literacy and appreciation of reading. The right to privacy must also be safeguarded in particular.” After these quotes from the Committee on the Future, I would like to thank the staff of the Library of Parliament. 35 persons worked in permanent office at the end of 2018. I thank the staff, the library management and the government for the valuable work you have done for Finnish democracy and freedom of expression. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u78	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Kiuru, once again for a good presentation. I am also one of those representatives who appreciate the importance of the Library of Parliament, and I always want to take the floor in this context and remind you of the great importance of the Finnish library as a promoter of democracy and civilisation throughout history, but also of its role, just the same task today and certainly for the long future, hopefully forever. So libraries are a very important cornerstone of our democracy, a cornerstone of our civilisation, and that is why it is important that in this house we also want to safeguard their position and promote their position. At the end of that speech, Mr Kiuru spoke very well about a few basic things that must be remembered whenever we talk about the enormous importance of the library. Today, a major challenge is that we must be able to fight for our citizens' literacy to be raised to a better level. We have been very successful in this throughout history and have been progressive in it, but today the clouds of concern in the sky have been greatly reduced in the literacy of people, especially young boys. This is a big task for the future. President! I know that, for example, the Library Society and many librarians have important greetings for promoting these issues also in the future government and parliamentary term, and I hope that the future government, regardless of colour, will take these valuable goals into account. Another thing that is very important today is this digital world and the fact that every single person has equal opportunities to participate in the information society. We are also discussing very much today how we can guarantee in all sectors and how in every way we can make it possible for people who do not have natural access to these gadgets or who do not have the natural know-how to have knowledge and access to information society services. There are many players who can contribute to this — NGOs, study centres, schools of course, many of them in a very central role — but the library also works in this direction. That is why a positive example of how we were able to promote this at the end of the last period was the joint report prepared by the Committee on Finance in Parliament at the Section for Education and Science and, through it, Parliament's positive and sunny decision, if you could say that libraries were given additional funds to enable them to develop their activities more effectively today, as if they were today's digital talents. I thought that was important, and I hope that this trend will continue in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u79	Yes, I did, and then Mr. Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u80	Mr President! It is really nice to see that we are in a large crowd discussing the most important issue. It is easy to agree with the words of Viitanen, who spoke before, that while we are talking about the Library of Parliament, we will be able to value the entire Finnish library institution. It has played a huge role in how Finland has become the most competent country and the most competent nation in the world. As such a young veteran MP, I would like to say to the new colleagues in this Chamber that it is worth keeping a diary in this digital age. I am not a good example of this, because I have not kept it myself in my first parliamentary term, but now, after re-election, I am firmly promising to return to this subject because digital information is very disappearing. If we only trust that the e-mails or conversations stored in other social media services will be those that will then in the future help our children and grandchildren to understand on the basis of what kind of information, based on what kind of ideas we have made over this period of time, the decisions that we are going to make by this Parliament, I am afraid that the picture and understanding of what this Parliament has brought about will be very thin. So this is the wise word of a former veteran MP I would like to say that each of us would write them into a manual form just like that in a paper booklet or booklet, so that they are actually available to us as our own joy and then to historians in the future. And of course it is important that we ourselves study our history as well as future generations do, because whoever does not know history cannot understand much about this moment or see where we may then be going in the future as a nation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u81	Everything disappears online except what you wish to disappear.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u82	Mr President! Mr Viitanen's comment on the importance of literacy and digital literacy in particular is correct. We have about 500,000 people who do not have digital skills and, for example, it is the adult education centres that do the work and the libraries where this support is provided. For the new representatives, I would be happy to say that it is worth getting to know the Library of Parliament. It serves us, Parliament, even though it is open to all citizens. The loan periods are long, and if the book is not found, it will certainly be purchased if the representative considers it necessary for his work. That's where you'll find the book, and the loan periods are longer than usual. As far as literacy is concerned, it is not just a school issue; it is also a question of parents and home culture. The ability to learn to read, the ability and the opportunity to learn the mother tongue, the strong mother tongue, is linked to thinking, empathy, the desire to understand other people — just such key skills. And when you read to children, it certainly is nothing but a matter of self - will, and libraries are for that reading material to be found.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u83	Like this. ‘Reading on the spot’ said a member of
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u84	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. Let's open a conversation. — Vice-President of the Management Board, represented by Mr Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u85	Mr President! This is the annual Yle report to Parliament, which will then be discussed in depth here in the Committee on Transport and Communications. In a few words, I was thinking of opening up the content of this report. This has, of course, already been discussed in the bodies of Yle, in particular in the Bureau of the Management Board, which has followed this matter. In the background, and especially to tell the new representatives: During the previous parliamentary term, there were two parliamentary working groups dealing with Yle's tasks, Yle law, Yle's funding and also Yle's role in relation to commercial media and its role in the Finnish media market in general. These two working groups ended up in a unanimous report, which has also led to some changes in YLE's own activities. Above all, purchases from outside parties, and especially from Finnish indie operators, have grown. So the results of these parliamentary groups during the previous parliamentary term are, as it were, the basis there. In particular, this Yle report presents Yle's public service mission and strategy, changes in the operating environment, Yle's content and services, Yle's value to Finns, to which I am going to go a little further, and Yle's development and operating principles, as well as Yle's financial cost structure and administration. These are the points in the report. Mr President! A few facts about how important Yle is in Finnish everyday life. 95 per cent of Finns use some of Yle's content weekly. This figure has continued to rise by two percentage points over the last year and has also increased among persons under 45. So for a long time it has been a concern that Yle’s accessibility is lower in younger age groups than in older age groups, but now also among these younger age groups Yle’s follow-up, in one way or another, has grown. 89 per cent of Finns trust Yle’s news, and it is considered the most reliable news channel in Finland. Overly Yle's activities rely on either very much or quite a lot on 69 per cent of Finns, which is also a very high figure. Yle TV1 is still the most visited television channel in Finland, and Yle Radio Finland is the most listened radio channel in Finland, and Yle Areena has been chosen as the best brand in Finland. So Yle has done quite well with these functional indicators in 2018. In 2018, the biggest individual investments in YLE were in the presidential elections, the US and Russian state leaders, Putin and Trump, the Finnish Summit, the South Korean Olympics and the Russian football World Cup. Due to these investments, in particular these major sporting events, Yle’s result in 2018 was also EUR 5 and a half million negative, compared with EUR 6.9 million positive in the previous year. After all, Yle’s result depends precisely on these international sports competitions, i.e. if there are big sporting events with large amounts of money paid for their broadcasting rights, then the result usually goes down the drain, and in those years when there are no such big sporting events, then a certain amount of plus is made to keep the economy in balance. Yle is also a big employer. It has 3,309 employees and this number of employees has decreased by 24 during 2018, i.e. in practice it has remained almost at the same level. Yle has increased external programme procurements, as I have already said, and various cooperation projects with commercial media. This latter point is very important because it is of course essential for freedom of expression that Finland manages Yle but also manages commercial channels — at national, regional and local level — so that citizens can have adequate and reliable information. In this time in which we are currently living, in which we have all kinds of fake news and various hybrid threats constantly present in everyday life, it is extremely important that this high-quality press, in all its forms, has sufficient space from local to national level.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u86	Mr President! Mr Satonen, Vice-President of Yle's Board of Directors, well described the key figures of last year's YLE and its activities as well. The report of the YLE Board of Directors also gives a very good and broad view of the company’s operations for 2018. In that report, the Chairman of the Board of Directors also describes well how the media field has become more intense and the use of the media has also become more individualised, and it will certainly present challenges for the long future. In this changed operating environment, the importance of a reliable public service media company operating with high professional ethics will be further emphasised in the coming years, I believe. Yle is part of the Finnish life-form, and citizens consider it important that Finland has a strong, versatile media provider that produces domestic content. And the Finns also trust, as Mr Satonen said in his own presentation, the Yleen and Yle offers and Yle news. One of the most important development projects last year was the construction of an online service for sport in Yle Arena. The arena will certainly play an increasingly important role in the future, and it has been followed more and more, and young citizens will also follow the Arena more and more, and the Arena will also be able to watch the programmes afterwards. Its popularity is bound to increase. Similarly, an important development project was the preparation of regional reform. I personally believe that regional supply is important for citizens, and there is a great deal to be said from the citizens that regional supply is to be maintained and regional supply developed. There's a lot of regional news going on in your area. When you look through that activity report, the values of the YLE — independence, reliability and respect for man — are good values, and they must be reflected in Yle’s activities in the future. What we need is independent and reliable communication in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u87	Mr President! As a new Member of Parliament, it is interesting to note that, when we had a debate on the seating order a short time ago, there were a few representatives here, including Mr Lindtman and then Mr Arhinmäki from the left, who said that they were so annoyed when this debate was not going to go on more important matters but rather to discuss such a matter, and now that I look at this Chamber, I think there are only 15 per cent left here, if I am right to count, to talk about something as important as Yle or, for example, the Finnish library culture or, for example, Sitra, in other words, about investing in the future or other things that are being discussed. These gentlemen are no longer here, but let's discuss this Yle. It is quite true that, of course, with that kind of money that Yle spends — about half a billion on the budget — you can do what and what, but the other thing is how cost-effective things are done. This report by the Board of Directors lists the weekly accessibility of online services in autumn 2018, for example, and it is clear here that ulä.fi/news reaches 36 per cent of Finns, but even higher readings get such as Evening Magazine and Evening Sanomat, which is very interesting. Well, this comparison doesn't make any sense when you go into the economy. In this Yle report of the Board of Directors — which I'm sure Yle has written as well — is the turnover and comparison of the main media operators with the public service companies in 2017. It would certainly be very interesting at this point to list exactly the national players and how much money they have spent, because it was discovered just now that those national operators were being provided, for example, with regard to news services and online services. But this comparison is made by listing all 65 broadcasters from Europe together and putting their own beams together and then comparing Amazon, Microsoft and Netflix on the other end, so that we lose these relationships very quickly. In other words, I would like these reports to make this economic comparison much more transparent in the future, because it is very important from the point of view of Parliament. Besides that, I'd also like to... This is what I was actually having a conversation with Ate back in the day when he was in Yle. They were organizing something like this lobbying night for young politicians. There was great food and we were watching a hockey game, and I told him that I would hope that these reports — even then these reports — would bring out much more clearly what is the share of Swedish-speaking programme production compared to Finnish-language programme production. For example, in this report it is very weakly expressed. There have been lists, for example, of worship programs and other things, but the whole thing is very short. Then, when we talk about how much resources have been spent, it will be even less. I must say that Yle has spent quite disproportionately much money on Swedish-speaking programme production for a long time compared to the number of Finnish-Swedish people in this country. These things do not go hand in hand in any sense. If so, why is this same argument not being put forward for the Sámi-speaking Yle services, when there is a need for a certain critical number of radio channels or for a dedicated channel in order to provide sufficient services in a meaningful way? There too, it would be absolutely necessary to have these same contributions in order to produce that minimum quantity. In other words, in the case of Swedish-speaking people, it is immediately noticed that there is an illogical way of doing things and more resources are spent, and I hope that in the future this reporting will be given particular attention, because this is one of the structural issues in Finland, which is wrong. That is, discrimination against Finnish-speaking people compared to Swedish-speaking people. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u88	Mr President! It is really important that there is reliable and independent communication in Finland — particularly reliable and independent news media. It is important that it is represented by the YLE and it is important that we have commercial operators who are also able to do so. From Yle's activities, I have always hoped that, when all Nordic countries have very high-quality broadcasters that produce news content, topical content and, of course, other interesting content, these content could be distributed as efficiently as possible through the channels available to each broadcaster in the various countries. This would certainly serve the purpose of providing additional services in other languages, even when reference was made here to these services in different languages provided by the Finnish Broadcasting Company. For example, following news broadcasts in Swedish, which we Finnish-speaking people would certainly be interested in, will also improve practical language skills. But then, in Sweden again, a considerable number of Finnish-speaking people live, and perhaps they also have news from their former home country or grandparents’ home country, current issues could be interesting, just as it would be good for young people who practice Finnish there in practice to hear that language in everyday life. In this respect, I would like to appeal to Mrs Yle that in the case of programmes which do not give rise to any intellectual property rights or other questions, this dissemination of supply through the available channels is being cross-checked in all of them. In the Nordic countries, we would think about I believe that it would have added value to everything.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u89	Mr President! Yle's story seemed good and comprehensive. It was easy to read. Since Yle reaches 95% of the population and reliability is also very high, it is, in my opinion, at least the top-of-the-line media in Finland — without underestimating the other quality media, which here are more and more challenges to make quality journalism, which is based on real knowledge, here are a lot of these fake media, which have also taken over the platforms of this information. But then, of course, the increase in their numbers increases the demand for Yle and other quality journalism, because people want real knowledge and fact. Whether it's in your mind or not, the facts are needed. I read a little about those percentages, which has now been mainly on the side of television programmes and production, and it was a little surprised that, for example, sport accounts for only 11 per cent. Of course, I would perhaps like to see more sport on television, but perhaps if we did not add percentages now that they were not out of other important things — it has been measured, of course, certainly how much demand there is — at least such diversity I would like more. It has become more diverse, yes, but it adds that there are also options and information about various sports and sports opportunities. It is also important for our young people, because they also see it through television and media. When it is said that children and young people should find hobbies, for example, what other than in the media? Of course, Yle has a big role to play here, too. Then again I would like to see: Yle's archive has a lot of material, old stuff for decades, and they may seem to be quite difficult and expensive to get. If you order anything, someone will edit it and it will cost you, of course. Those hourly wages are not that small, as they are now, even if they are private — and I'm sure companies have the same thing. If there was a system in which those archives could be easier to open and browse for themselves, it could be the future and also better for Yle commercially.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u90	Mr President! Perhaps a few comments on this report, but from that good speech by Mr Tynkkysen, I would point out that the role that Yle plays in the afternoon newspapers, for example, is very different, and I hope Yle will not go into that kind of clique journalism. But all the same, I think Mr Tynkkysen's remarks about reporting with a clear purpose are very good. Representative Satonen told us very comprehensively about this importance of Yle to Finns and Finland. These guidelines made by the previous Parliament on funding and the relationship with commercial media are really important to take into account in the future work that is being done on Yle in this house. A balance must be struck with commercial operators. I would like to pay special tribute to Yle for an ever better service, especially to the foreign Finns. I myself have been an expatriate Finn at one point in my life, and I think that these services have improved year by year. There's a lot of opportunities in this Yle job. We must invest in our own production and at the same time, just as we have done now, we must take into account these domestic operators, domestic production companies and also small production companies. This is where the potential of Yle lies in quality. We have now seen a number of high-quality productions, which also offer big, big opportunities for exports. Above all, reliability and editorial independence are the strengths of Yle and we must take care of them. We must guarantee that independence, and we must pay particular attention to the information war, just as Mr Satonen mentioned earlier. I do not think that this aspect should be forgotten in the 2020s. We must also secure independent and incorruptible media as a watchdog of power and a watchdog of this house. I see a very big role here on Yle. Yle's activities and, in general, the fact that we have freedom of speech and incorruptible media in Finland is a guarantee and security of Finnish democracy, and I believe and hope that this house will defend it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u91	Mr President! Yle talks about the mission, vision and values in this report of the Board of Directors, and it is stated at the mission that Yle strengthens Finnish society and culture. With regard to the aspects of the news coverage of Yle's programme provision, I must say that I question whether Yle has properly handled its own mission and I hope that the forthcoming report, which will then be drawn up again from this year, will, for example, open this mission more thoroughly. For example, last autumn Yle funded the Seinäjoki Arab Spring document, which was filmed and discussed again with the author of this document, it required different versions. Such documents would be precisely the Yle's programme production which could precisely reveal things about this society which, by correcting, this society could indeed be a more integrated, stronger society, but they will then be tried again to censor. On the other hand, as far as values are concerned, this report states that the values of Yle are independence, reliability and respect for human beings, and even at this point there is a great deal of faith in whether these values are being implemented. For example, when the Yle election machine, prepared just last autumn and published this year for young people, first of all, was told how to think about matters such as transcites or climates or fellings, and then asked what you think, I do not consider this in any way independent or reliable. And when I know that Yle's bosses are really listening to this debate, the strong message in their direction is that we really need to report more closely on these issues for the coming year, and at least this analysis in this report was far too weak. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u92	Mr President! There are still some things that have come to mind for me — Mr Asell has spoken well, and Mr Tynkkynen has also spoken well. I would like to make two comments. In other words, we YLE should be more supportive of youth sport in such a way that they would actually make programmes for these sports that have been very successful in Finland. This success of Finnish athletes and competitive situations will help our young people to stay on the so-called straight track and to keep up with sports. I myself have been closely following an individual species, and unfortunately there has been a lack of programming available on YLE. So I'd like Yle to invest in this in the future. Then that document on the Arab Springs of Seinäjoki, which Yleisradio considered to be Islamophobic and anti-immigration — I do not remember exactly what they were. However, such an image has come to me from this point of view — I have quite closely followed that document, I have seen it twice — that I think it is such political censorship of problems. This Arab Spring documentary should have shown in its own schedule before these elections. This has clearly now been moved to the post-Parliament and post-European elections. Now it is being shown as a document as it has been, and now it apparently no longer meets the criteria mentioned earlier, which it still met before the elections. So here, as I see it, is such a political orientation for something or against something. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u93	And then the vice-chairman of the General Radio Board, Mr Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u94	Mr President! Just such a comment about this when we go to the level of these individual programmes, should there be more sport and sports of the kind and whether a document should show or not: as Mr Tynkkynen said, of course Yle's management will be listening to this debate, and that is good. A message can certainly be taken, but I would like to point out here that the Yle board is not in a position to decide on programme policy, but it is precisely a policy that there is a firewall, because I think that in a system and in a country where politicians decide what the Yleisenradio looks like, none of us want to live. So it's a perfectly clear solution. These larger-class lines are made on the Board of Directors but not at the level of what programs are displayed. I say this despite the fact that I too think it would be good for sport, for example, to come from there more and also to other species than what is always shown. Then another issue that has arisen in this debate, which Mr Tynkkynen also drew attention to, is Yle's online visibility. This is, in fact, a very good observation, and there has also been a great deal of discussion on this issue. I am not quite sure whether it makes sense for Yle to be the market leader in all possible sectors and by far the largest market leader, because I am very concerned that it is the commercial press, for example, and especially our regional newspapers, our local newspapers and also the advertising TV Nolonen, who will be able to cope with this competition. For example, for provincial newspapers, these paid websites are very important, and if Yle is there constantly competing with free supply, and it may take away the opportunity of these provincial operators. However, since the number of magazines to be ordered is constantly decreasing, new business needs to be sought on the electronic side. This line-up is very precise where Yle works in order not to deprive the commercial press of its activities, because we need both the Yle and the commercial press, commercial television, commercial radio. Finally, I would like to say that I think that Mr Kentta has made an excellent speech on this whole, all of which is the role of YLE and radio in Finnish society and which is why we need such an instrument here. In addition to the strong Yle, we definitely need a local, regional and national commercial press and radio and television activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u95	Mr President! Even in this debate, as in many other contexts, of course, there has been a great deal of debate about the role of the General Radio Board and then the role of the Finnish Broadcasting Government and the role of delivery, which is certainly an ongoing debate. In practice, the Finnish Broadcasting Board decides on the strategy and then the operational activities start to run. The strategy provides guidelines for Yle's operations on the basis of which the company's Board of Directors will then decide on the supply policies and the main reform projects, and the decisions on the company's content will then be taken by the responsible suppliers designated under the Freedom of expression Act. This is the system. I myself am a member of the General Board of Yleisradio, and many times there has been a little discussion about the content of the programmes and what we would like more, and indeed as a former sportsman and as a person who follows sport, I would like to see the Yleisradio shown, precisely on these free channels, more Finnish sport, and more and more Finnish sport followed. I am very much in favour of the idea that those sports programmes should come — that is what people want to follow, people of all ages, young people too. Young people are also given examples of those athletes, and that is how they take Finland and Finnishness forward. All in all, however, the most important thing in the operation of the Finnish Broadcasting Company is that it is an independent information intermediary and that it distributes information now and also in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u96	Mr President! Representative Satonen is talking about how Yle in local provinces might then take the lane away from these private operators and media companies. I can, in a way, understand that aspect at the theoretical level, but then, once there has been a discussion at the regional level, it is hoped that Yle will also be strong locally. When, for example, we talk about democracy at municipal level, not just at national level, but at municipal level, without targeting the resources within Yle so that it can be broadcast locally, we may have a situation where there is one regional newspaper that reports on all council activities. I am not going to say out loud to which party each magazine is tilted, but it has been noticed in the provinces that if there was only one regional magazine, it would not necessarily be so diverse but might be too far-fetched. Therefore, within Yle, these resources should be distributed in a more rational way, so that it can be challenged and is a dialogue in journalism as well. I can very much agree with what Mr Könttä said earlier that we need even more to go in the direction that Yle is focusing on domestic production. It is absolutely absurd that still — still — too much of Yle’s funding, to be frank with our Finnish taxpayers, is being paid into the pockets of foreign filmmakers, especially documentaries, and others, when we should support them in their own hands. Especially with regard to documents, we are able to make a really high-quality programme, as for example. MOT is, but there should be more of this instead of these foreign documents. The new generation in Finland already uses a lot of Netflix and other services, where they themselves order and watch these foreign programs. It cannot be that, in addition to our tax money, another route is being paid to foreign production, but it must be directed even more towards domestic production. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u97	Mr Satonen, Vice-President of the Management Board.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u98	Mr President! First of all, I am sorry that I was talking about Mr Field, although I meant Mr Könta, but that is that. Well, then, here's what you're talking about. Tynkkynen raised the issue of competition or coexistence between the websites of regional newspapers and regional newspapers and Yle. I must say that I agree strongly with Mr Tynkkynen here. It is quite true that if you take Lapland as an example of the smallest regions, if it is that the people of Lapland do not work there or that there is no Yle Lappi, but only one of them, then of course it will significantly reduce the information that citizens receive there if it comes from only one source. So this is an extremely important issue. But precisely because this is happening, it must also be borne in mind what the real conditions are for commercial operators who do not have a situation in part of the country where only Yle and then perhaps local newspapers, but not, for example, regional newspapers, are operating there. Even when this parliamentary working party sat down and went through this very thoroughly, we had areas where the conditions for the regional newspapers were very weak. Now that the economic situation has improved somewhat, this situation has been somewhat relieved, but it is still the case that, especially in smaller regions where the population is decreasing and the number of magazines to order is decreasing, the economic equation on which the regional newspaper is rolling is becoming increasingly difficult. And it is a very important thing that those provincial newspapers also maintain their position, because our regional press is quite high-quality all over. The role of the local press is a little better in that even the public is not really able to compete with the local press. Then, of course, we still have the free distribution press, which, in part, also produces quite high-quality news material, but we cannot afford to lose any part of this system, as it were, so that we do not lose out on the multi-faceted flow of information to our citizens, and that is why we must be able to look at this issue as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-07-ps-4.u99	Like this. More sports on TV and especially medals.
