ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The matter shall be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the other committees may deliver an opinion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days of the transmission of the proposal to the Committee on Finance. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 9 October 2019. In this context, discussion will also be allowed on the agenda from 3 to 24 April. on the subject. Let us continue the debate, and now we are dealing with the affairs of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Minister Leppä, five minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u2	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. The section of the draft budget now under discussion at the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry shows that the government promotes both the profitability of agriculture and the sustainable use and diversity of natural resources. Profitability will be improved through additional investment and food exports, while ensuring people’s opportunities to refresh themselves in the field of hunting, fishing and natural mobility. We also respond with the budget to a high level of ambition in environmental actions and direct permanent and one-off funding to the implementation of the land use sector climate programme totalling EUR 19 million. Funding will be directed towards measures to strengthen carbon sinks and reduce emissions from the land use sector. Mr President! Securing farm investment is extremely important from the point of view of the vitality, employment and profitability of rural areas. The Rural Development Fund Makera will be capitalised for a total of EUR 90,3 million next year. Investment grants can be used to launch projects that create jobs in areas such as construction planning, construction industry, trade, transport and construction sites. Investment will replace obsolete capacity, improve the welfare of animals and farmers, promote the state of the environment and increase the production of renewable energy. Exports are also a central part of the profitable food system in Finland and a prerequisite for its success. Since our domestic markets are relatively small, it is important for the food sector to seek growth opportunities outside the borders of the country. In order to promote food exports, the Government proposes EUR 2 million in next year's budget. One of the most important measures in terms of profitability is to fill the EUR 88 million deficit in agri-environmental compensation next year, 2020, in line with the Government Programme. In other words, the government will safeguard agri-environmental measures and target subsidies on active activities. The Government also supports climate-friendly food production and increases the share of domestic organic products in food production. The financing of new organic commitments in 2020 will be secured. On the basis of the commitments, compensation will be paid for organic plant and livestock production. In terms of the conservation of agricultural production, the compensatory allowance is also very important, as the compensatory allowance makes it possible to grow under our northern conditions. That is why the government will also make up for the EUR 42 million shortfall in the compensatory allowance next year. Supportable agriculture maintains the vitality of the farm and sustains employment in rural areas and domestic food production. Mr President! Biodiversity and sustainable development are at the heart of the Government Programme. As part of the protection of biodiversity, the government is directing support for the creation of wetlands important to migratory fish recovery projects and waterbirds and the fight against alien species. A total of EUR 6 million will be used to support hiking fish, water bypassing solutions, the dismantling of migration barriers and the rehabilitation of breeding areas. EUR 3 million will be allocated to the rehabilitation of valuable bird wetlands. The Government will increase Metso's funding to strengthen forest biodiversity. Of the additional funding, EUR 2 million will be channelled through the administrative sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry into natural management projects and temporary protection of economic forests. The renovation debt of Metsähallitus will be dismantled and the conditions for nature tourism will be strengthened by purchasing basic funding for Metsähallitus nature services and refurbishing the routes of hiking areas and national parks. EUR 1 million will be allocated to the routing of hiking areas. The draft budget supports fisheries in a wide range of ways. An additional EUR 2.3 million is proposed for the promotion of domestic fish, the reduction of commercial fishing damage, fishing tourism and the management and research of fishing waters. A further EUR half million is also proposed for 4H operations. 4H activities contribute to the vitality and attractiveness of rural areas as a living environment by employing young people and providing them with opportunities to experiment with entrepreneurship, and now at last that additional funding is at the bottom. In order to promote the availability and use of reliable and accurate spatial data, EUR 1.5 million will be allocated to the Land Survey Institute for the implementation of the spatial data policy report. And this money is also channelled through many other administrative sectors to promote the digitality based on the spatial data we want to do. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u3	After the Minister's presentation, we will go back to the debate. I would ask those Members who wish to speak to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u4	Mr President! The EU has a common agricultural policy, which means that Finland is largely at the mercy of EU subsidies. Unfortunately, these EU subsidies are falling even further for Finland and farmers are in great distress. This budget does not promise the farmer anything big, it is very neutral — it does not directly add anything to the plight of the farmers, which is what it is at the moment. So I ask Minister Leplä that when a young farmer wants to step into his father's shoes when it comes to family farming and wants to cultivate land, manage forests, what do you say to him, because at the moment the future looks really dark. Also, if you think about what Finland is investing in: it is good that animal welfare too, but
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u5	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. It is really music to the ears that this government and this minister understand the value of the bioeconomy. When we talk about a bioeconomy, we are not talking about a little thing, we are talking about a $70 billion figure for this country. That is why we must be able to use our forests and our fields sustainably. It was important to compensate for the shortfall in natural and environmental compensation, which had already arisen not during the previous government but during the previous government when Minister Orpo was Minister of Agriculture. Without it, the farmers would not have survived. It is significant that agricultural investment will receive the funding it deserves and that action will be taken in the forest to increase its growth, including with regard to the management of nature. My question is this: the future of Kemera, Mr. Minister,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u6	Mr President! I would also like to thank the Minister for being able to improve this financial situation in the agricultural and forestry sectors. However, when this food production is an important part of the Finnish society and, of course, food safety and farmers play an equally important part in it, I ask how the advice of future young farmers has been secured, when it seems that the older age group will stop, and then, above all, this vacation activity, so that there will be no fatigue in the way that has been observed in this few years. So the question is very much about young people's ability to cope and their ability to get to the side of the job with good guidance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u7	Mr President! It is an excellent thing for the Minister of Agriculture to continue in his duties, because last season he was able to handle the issue of the continuing fishing activity of seals rather than the cormorants reasonably well. But the cormorants, Mr. Minister, were left to you for this period. And I really hope, as we have discussed, that this will be corrected. When and how? My second short question to you, Minister: this spatial report you referred to in your own speech is a matter in which I hope that the administration of your staff will also clearly understand that there is another side to it. We have a need for internal security in society. We have the need to take external security into account. And I hope that your officials will not lose sight of this when progress is made on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u8	Mr President! Increasing carbon sinks in both the long and short term is the goal of the Government Programme and important work to combat climate change and to achieve the 2035 objective of carbon neutrality. The Government Programme has made it possible, for example, to promote carbon sequestration of agricultural land, to reduce emissions from peatlands and peatlands, and to reduce the grubbing-up of peat fields, and to promote afforestation. Emissions from peat fields account for about half of agricultural emissions and it is therefore important that the Minister invests in this. I believe that reducing carbon emissions from agriculture would also increase the success of Finnish food production, as Finns want to favour both domestic food and climate-resistant choices. This government is indeed taking the land-use sector as part of the work against climate change, and this budget has provided significant funding for the land-use sector's climate programme. That's what I'm particularly happy about.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u9	Madam President! I have to admit, there's not much to add to that. The Government Programme responds and the Minister said that things are being promoted in this sector. But one such thing has been and still seems to be: many Finnish primary producers are being swallowed up under bureaucracy. And I would like to ask the Minister what the action plan is to make these matters more reasonable. We need credible controls, but we do not need unnecessary squatting on the agricultural sector, because it is part of the revenue stream that goes into those inspection fees, and so on. Is it possible to think that one inspector on the same visit could check a little more than just the one thing for which he has started?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u10	Madam President! The draft budget brings light to the everyday lives of many farmers. Patching holes in environmental and natural handicap payments, promoting exports, creating a belief in the future by capitalising on Makera, and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u11	Madam President! It was nice to hear from Minister Leppa that the capitalisation of Makera and also the promotion of food exports are well taken into account in this budget, as are compensation for natural handicaps and investment in biodiversity, which is extremely important. And it is good that you have been able to turn the head of one of your government partners, they were still talking about barning last season when we were talking about this money for Makera. It is extremely important that we understand that the bioeconomy is a strong foundation for the future of Finnish society as a whole. In that sense, these efforts are necessary. But, Minister Leppä, I would have asked about the greatest concern, that is to say, about this EU financial framework: if it fails to defend the financing of agriculture, then, in the end, these budget funds will have nothing but a small meaning. Is the government prepared for the fact that if these negotiations fail, we will be able to fully compensate for the losses — in accordance with the government programme, will you stick to it?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u12	Madam President! It is now about five years since it was an honour to be Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, and of those days I have been waiting for this moment when I am in the opposition. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u13	Madam President! I thank Minister Leppää for his introduction. I would like to ask one question about the entry in the Government Programme: what is your point, Mr President, in this entry, that ‘the daily over-negotiation status of sparetrades is controlled by legislative measures,other than privateabel products’? Have I understood correctly that your purpose is to get rid of shops' own products, which are less expensive? If so, are you aware, Mr Government, that the vast majority of consumers are entering the market because of price? Many, especially small ones, can sell up to half or more of their own products. Small shops are already extremely challenging, thanks to the opening hours that have been opened, for example. At least the potential increase in prices does not support them at all and does not help, on the contrary, customers can move to bigger shops. I would like to ask how this fits in with the government programme, when you have said here every day that this government is on the side of all low incomes. If you start ordering what shops are allowed to sell, and you come to restrict cheaper products by means of legislation, will those on low incomes be left without food? In addition, at least Finnish agriculture will not be a winner, because with these entries, if I have understood this correctly, you are driving people to buy more German meat, for example, which is already sold in Finland, at an extremely low cost. As I mentioned, consumers are extremely
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u14	Madam President! I think it is wonderful that this government is investing in biodiversity and thus reserving things. It is also important that this nature tourism — a little message has come from Eastern and Northern Finland, that there is a lack of infrastructure and resources — is now in the process of making more investments. Perhaps the most joyous thing for yourself now is this continuation of funding for the hiking fish project. The most important thing would be to complete the fine projects that are under way — they have mobilised tens of millions of projects as a whole and then mobilise local people to renovate riverbeds and others — and to finance, but also to mobilise small new projects. We're on a great road.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u15	Madam President! The most important thing is the profitability of agriculture. That is why it is good that these facilities for environmental compensation and compensation for natural handicaps can be made in this budget. However, that belief in the future must be shared by the producers and, if we are to develop agriculture, investment must be made. That is why the capitalisation of Makera is extremely important and good. I would ask you, Minister, when food exports are also invested in this budget — EUR 2 million is not in itself a large amount of money, but if spent correctly, it will achieve a great deal: How does your coordination play within the government with the Minister for Export Promotion, with the Minister for Foreign Trade? For example, if we are compared to our neighbouring country, Sweden, they have a double occupation, they have a very strong interest in exporting their own products out. Their embassies have been harnessed as marketing organisations in a good way. How can we do this, and how can we raise Finnish brand value abroad?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u16	Madam President! The Government Programme includes a entry that increases the share of vegetarian food in public procurement and catering. This is important and even necessary in terms of climate, nature, environment and security of supply. We have seen a shift towards such a more sustainable diet on the municipal level and also on the part of individual consumers. I would have asked how to create conditions for Finnish products to be involved in this change and to respond to this growing demand for new kinds of vegetarian diets. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u17	Madam President! The burden-sharing of climate policy emission reductions requires action from the land use sector, and this poses its own challenges for the use of the available arable area. How, Minister, will we ensure that both subsidies and the use of arable land will be directed more strongly towards active farmers in the future? As a second question, I would like to ask this question about predatory policy: in Kainuu and When we grow up in Lapland, we face the challenge of bears, wolves and gluttons, so-called harassers. I would hope that measures can be taken on that side, so that poaching will not increase either by disillusioning people when they do not get help in their own everyday need and concern for domestic animals and children. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u18	Mr President! Agriculture cannot be profitable if Finland outsources its food production — right, Minister? In October last year, our country's largest daily newspaper announced to researchers that Westerners should reduce meat consumption by 90%, otherwise climate change mitigation will not work, and since then news of the dangers of meat eating has come almost weekly. Arto, Research Manager of Natural Resources Centre According to calculations made two years ago by Latukka, 1100 dairy farms will stop milk production by 2020, or 16.5% of dairy farms. No matter how much we want to stop climate change, we cannot stop eating. They've tried to make us think it's worth changing meat to soy, Finnish sugar from Peru to imported Indian sugar, domestic grain to millet and corn, and potatoes to sweet potato. How do you, Minister, see the future of Finnish agriculture?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u19	Mr President! The Government has very ambitious climate targets, but I am afraid they will strike directly at our countryside and the Finnish food producer. However, it is also a question of safety and security of supply for Finland, and we cannot risk our agriculture and forestry at the expense of climate action. I would like to ask: how does the government intend to prevent climate goals and tightening-ups from hitting the ax on the farmer's knee? And how will it be ensured that those for whom peatland cultivation is necessary will continue to use and grub up the fields? And how, Minister, will it be ensured that farmers, for example, are given a domestic workforce, as they would like to continue to employ Finns?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u20	Madam President! Food production is one of the biggest contributors to greenhouse gas emissions, so it is gratifying to note that the Government intends to contribute in many ways to the achievement of climate objectives also in food production. Reducing food loss is one of the things we can do to increase the sustainability of the food system. I would be interested to know what Minister Leppä is going to do to reduce food loss.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u21	Madam Speaker! In the long term, climate change can lead to a deterioration of production conditions in important food production areas at present. The Government aims to make further investments in bioeconomy research, development and innovation activities. The aim is also to increase the production and consumption of biogas and to create a market for recycled fertilisers. How is it thought to ensure the willingness and potential of farms to invest? Since the national biogas programme is drawn up, will it allow both smaller and larger investments in this sector around Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u22	Mr President! Indeed, it is true that this draft budget contains good agricultural elements, including environmental and natural handicap compensation for 2020. However, it does not change the fact that this is a one-off period and that data are not available since 2021. It was mentioned that there is music on the ears of this Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry presentation. Well, yes, minor gain is also strongly involved in this paragraph, taking into account the profitability situation in agriculture. Agriculture is, as we know, in a crisis of profitability, and this support system is, in a certain way, the concrete below it, but also the price of the product is significant. The problem with agriculture is that farms that have invested significantly in recent years and have made their production more efficient are now in trouble.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u23	Mr President! This government programme for agriculture and forestry, which is an embryoic red soil government, is a good one, as is this budget proposal. It is right because Finnish food is sustainable and clean internationally and it is important that we take care of the situation in our own food economy. National consensus is also needed in relation to the European Union in the negotiations. This is not the time to ask ‘if? “ What if the question is not appropriate now, and it is not worth answering, because now we have to give the Minister some peace and the government to negotiate a good agreement? Farmers are doing a very valuable job in food production, and we must remember that agriculture is not a quarter economy, it has a hundred-year tradition of the continuity of farms for the next generations. It is therefore necessary to ensure that this profitability is as secure as possible in the future. We also need to invest in research and product development, innovation, advice and education, so that our agriculture is also top-notch in international competition.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u24	Mr President! The European Union is a federal state with regard to agricultural policy. The common agricultural policy is currently being reformed and a new transfer of power will come to the Commission, including through the eco-system. In other words, almost all of our agriculture is decided by Commission officials, and this is a dangerous development. Every seven years, when it is this changing time in these seasons, Finnish agriculture has been defeated. I would therefore ask the Minister to assess the importance of this eco-system. The financial framework, the proposal for a framework for the EU Commission, has a cut of EUR 1.17 billion in agricultural aid and rural development. Finnish agriculture and Finnish rural areas will no longer be able to withstand this kind of attack. At present, the situation is very difficult for agriculture as well as for local development as a whole, or for rural areas. Will you, Minister, stick to the end — when unanimous decisions are taken in the Council, on behalf of Finland's rural areas and agriculture?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u25	Madam President! It seems to me that this is already becoming a tradition, that at this stage I am speaking about the need to have a post as a representative of animal welfare, and that is why it is extremely pleasant and nice that the decision has now been taken and that this post is being completed again. There was a four-year break, it was before that, and now it has been a very important objective for my party, the SDP, in the negotiations on the Government Programme — I am very pleased that it has now been achieved. In the same way, Minister, I wish you strength, and I rushed the overall reform of animal welfare legislation, as you probably knew, so it is very important that we get ahead of ourselves and get us a progressive and ethically high-quality animal welfare law. President! I would also like to make an important record of the future of this whole agricultural and forestry sector for me, and that is what the Minister has mentioned here that organic production should be promoted and the share of organic products increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u26	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for the presentation, and this warms the man’s heart with these investments in bird wetlands and hiking fish — very important future investments. I also see that in this budget domestic food is very much at the heart of the issue, and in such an era of vegan humbling, we should remember that Finnish food, it is always a climate action, whether it is meat, fish, milk or vegetables. And in the center the position is clear: the center will not dictate to anyone what to eat here. Only we encourage, of course, the use of domestic food. I am concerned that decisions have now been taken at the municipal level of Finland — even the coalition seems to be already driving it away in Helsinki — that milk has been completely withdrawn,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u27	Madam President! According to the draft budget for next year, Finland will also spend millions of euros next year on management obligations for fish stocks. At the same time, the state, through its own decisions, makes it difficult or even completely impedes the natural cycle and thus the reproduction of migratory fish. I therefore ask you, Minister Leppä: Why have you decided to advance commercial salmon fishing off the coasts of Finland, although it is generally known that this will lead to the disappearance of large individuals of interest to salmon stocks? Does the right hand of the government know what the left is doing?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u28	Let us now give the Minister a response. Here's a lot of questions, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u29	Madam President! Thank you for the debate and thank you for the questions, a great deal. Let's try to answer as many people as we can. Let's start with the agricultural situation. I share all the ideas expressed by those who have spoken that agriculture is a sector which requires exceptional long-termism and must be seen as a policy pursued, and that is what we have made every effort to build in this budget proposal that farmers should be informed of the future. We cannot know for sure what will happen in the CAP reform, but it is quite clear that we have good, unambiguous objectives, both in terms of funding, as well as in terms of simplification and encouragement, as regards regulations, and in terms of supporting European and therefore Finnish food production and so that it is possible to do so here too in the northern regions. That's the starting point. I cannot go very far into this matter of the financial framework, because it is not my role, it is the Prime Minister's business. But, of course, from my side — because through it there will be by far the most funding and financial return to Finland from the direction of the EU, it is very important — I can assure you that it will certainly be taken care of. And the issues of responsibility that have become more and more important — whether climate, environment, animal welfare, social dimensions — are those that support Finnish food production, our way of doing things, producing the best food in the world here. The choice of foreign food always puts things in a worse direction from these points of view. Therefore, I also agree with the ideas that are intended to encourage public purchasers to buy domestic food. We have done a lot of work on this, we have instructed public food suppliers in this regard, we have made a decision of principle over the last period of the state's food supply, we have also encouraged municipalities to do the same, we have taken the issue of origin marking forward, and so on, and that is what we must continue. It is quite clear what this situation in this regard is also in relation to the will of the government. And also when consumer habits change, it is clear that Finnish producers will then start producing products that go to trade — that is quite clear — and they want incentives to do so too. All in all, all the measures that are being taken are aimed at finally starting to increase profitability. We are all concerned about this in this Chamber. We have all moved it forward in our own time. We have certainly not achieved what we wanted, and that is why it is still on our table. And there is also this question of what is meant by these records relating to this fairer, fairer food chain — it is not fair at the moment. It is quite clear that all the explanations point in that direction, and that is why these records are similar in the government program. The preparatory work is underway on these matters, but the fact that we would have some effect on the price which is then available to the consumer in the store is not true — of course it is not the price at which the cake is distributed, but the way in which it is distributed. That is what we did in the last period and also in the previous period — it must also be recognised by the previous government. A wide range of measures have been taken in this area, and measures still need to be taken. They asked about Kemera's future. In any case, it will be reforming at the beginning of the next programming period and work will be done on it. Preparations are currently under way and should be made even more encouraging in relation to the objectives that we have put forward in general. The cormorzosia belongs to the Ministry of the Environment. We are having discussions with the fellow minister on this matter. This is a clear problem; we must find a solution to it. The cormorants have increased very strongly, and then we must also be able to take new measures, and we will now go through these together with the Minister for the Environment, a colleague. The spatial data report: That is exactly what was said here — Mr Kanerva has said and said myself — that it is at the heart of many administrative sectors and, in particular, from a safety point of view. And that's taken into account, it's written in there. It cannot be isolated in any way. It concerns both our internal security and external security.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u32	Let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u33	Madam President! Finland is a long and fine country, and Finns have been able to use their most important natural resource, our most important capital forests wisely and sustainably for centuries. I am sure that forests have been managed very efficiently over the last decades so that we can enjoy today that forests form the basis for our most important export industry. Forests are also our main primary energy source. Mr President! Forests make a home and a soulscape for us Finns, and the use of forests in this sense also for economic purposes, for example through growing tourism, has, of course, grown enormously in recent years. It is therefore absolutely critical for Finland's future success that decision-making on forests also remains in national hands under this pressure of climate policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u34	Mr President! Although agricultural money is generally tight, there seems to be some things in which money is found. According to news reports, a five-and-a-half million-euro project is about to begin aimed at improving the coexistence of wolves and people and at alleviating conflicts.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u35	Mr President! It is important that next year's dramatic deficit in environmental and natural handicap compensation is now managed and filled in in this composition of government. Of course, it is very important to transfer to the Agricultural Development Fund: EUR 100 million during this entire Government term. At least in Varsinais-Suomi and other regions of the South, there is information that the investment money is running out, and there is now a round of applications. I would just like to ask the Minister: is this money distributed regionally in such a way that the maximum number of applications can be accepted?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u36	Mr President! I, too, draw the Minister's attention to farmers and, in particular, to the welfare of milk producers. I look forward to an answer to Mr Pierainen's question regarding, for example, vacation services, because I understand that there is a great deal of variation in this area in different parts of Finland. I would also like to ask how the activities of farmers in Eastern and Northern Finland, in particular, could be supported by the Ministry. In Finland we are at the mercy of the weather in general, but especially in Northern and Eastern Finland these weather variations are felt in operation. Of course, Kuopio is particularly interested in this, because we are the largest dairy producing region.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u37	Madam President! I, too, must thank Minister Leppää. I must say that Finland's agricultural and forestry policy rests in stable and competent hands, i.e. in the hands of Minister Leppa. This budget is also a future budget from the perspective of Finnish agriculture. I must also thank Mr Kalmar for having completed the report of the HAMA working group and for handing over to Minister Leppä tomorrow. Let's hope there's a follow-up. The Finnish Kylät ry also commends the understanding of the activities of villages and residents' associations and has also been given its own weight in the budget. We see that if we want to keep the whole of Finland inhabited and also agriculture, forestry, we also need the strength of these associations and organisations. That is also reflected in this budget. Mr President! However, I would also like to ask Minister Leppa about this major fraud policy. We know that there in Lapland and Unfortunately, Kainuu has close-to-miss situations every day. People are afraid, and children are not going to be dared to go to school any more.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u38	Mr President! The question of the country of origin and the question of the country of origin: First of all, from home: nutrient discharges from agriculture into water bodies cause eutrophication. Is there money in the budget, Minister, for this problem? My second question relates to Brazil, which is an important meat-producing country. It appears that Brazil has not shown its commitment to climate objectives. You yourself have personally taken the view that Brazilian meat and possibly soya should be avoided. However, the problem is the WTO provisions and what Finland is committed to. What do you recommend that Finland should do? Germany and France, for example, are a little negative and not a little negative about ratification of the Mercosur Agreement. How should Finland act in this regard?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u39	Mr President! I sympathise with Minister Leppää because this debate seems to be more in the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Environment than of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. However, it was former Environment Minister Tiilikainen who wanted to increase the use of peat for energy. He wanted pre-drained bogs with which tree production has not recovered to be used for peat production. This land reserve was advertised to be found in a million hectares. The idea was that part of the transport fuel would be produced from domestic peat instead of oil. But now I'm surprised. Mr Tiilikainen is the State Secretary of the Ministerial Group of the Centre, and you, Minister Leppä, are now on top of rural affairs, and now the peat production is being driven down. Representative Rantakangas told his constituents in Pudasjärvi that the peat population of the group and the Greens is drying up the countryside. On the beach, Kangas said that the current account would deteriorate and that debt abroad would increase as a result, and criticised the then Minister for Finance. Minister Leppä, now that you are in that position,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u40	Mr President! We have a good entry in the government program. The city centre made sure that there is no record that peat production will be abandoned, but we share the common view that peat use will be reduced as a result of emissions trading. It's a fact. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u42	Mr President! When we discuss peatland, I will return to the debate these organic arable land, which is important to the north of Tampere in farming. A small memory that the minister well remembers: At the time of the investigation of the current CAP in 2012-2013, there was talk of such a ban on peatland ploughing. The minister also remembers it well, and if you remember, the assembly took care of it — I can’t give you any points of style, but in any case it did. Now that we look at this current coalition of governments and talk about the use of organic countries, which are absolutely necessary in certain parts of Finland, what answer will the minister give when we go to the European fields to negotiate? After this round, will it still be possible there for Mr Rantakangas, even in his own region, to clear the field if necessary? Of course, you also have to think about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u43	Madam President! Peat is still needed, for example, in the gardens of 4H entrepreneurs. Discretion, grooming, goodness and well-being — head, hands, heart and health — make up a fine word, 4H, a multi-country association of children and young people that does wonderful work. Thank you very much to Minister Leppä and the government for providing the funding of the organisation at its level by adding half a million to the spending limits. As an old horticultural entrepreneur, as a 4H entrepreneur, I consider it important that this diverse club activity continues and expands across Finland, both on land and in cities. Young people learn by taking responsibility, an entrepreneurial attitude, and working together. They are the builders of the future. Mr President! It is worth investing in leisure activities for children and young people. So I ask the Minister: will this money be distributed evenly across Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u44	Madam President! With regard to the grubbing-up of peatfields, I would like to remind you that we would not make the same mistakes again: the last time the CAP reform was negotiated, we had a system that called for more manure application, given to protection zones and natural treatment fields, let me say a bit of money, when the active farmers who were forced to have fields because of the tightening of environmental standards did not get them when it was more profitable for others to be cultivated. We must ensure that every time we make support decisions, we make them ahead of food production, even though we take these other important environmental aspects into account. I would also like to raise the issue here, which Mr Kärna has already raised with great merit in public food procurement. When we buy Finnish food, we can also maintain all those side effects in Finland. Finnish milk production and beef production do not use a gram of soya.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u45	Madam President! The Government will reduce food losses and promote a health-friendly and climate-friendly diet in the budget. The planetary diet was presented in Lancet in 2016. Its aim is to feed the world’s ten billion people in 2050, reduce the number of diseases and deaths caused by poor diets worldwide and to be an environmentally sustainable diet. Reducing the use of red meat and milk products in the diet is an important step for both public health and the climate. So nothing is being banned entirely, but people’s diet is being steered in a healthier and climate-friendly direction, taking into account domestic security of supply.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u48	Madam President! Still eating soy: Soy is used at 250 grams per kilogram of pork produced. A Finnish eats 34 kg of pork per year, that is, a typical mixed eater, or 8.5 kg of soy. Vegetarian eats an average of 50 grams of soy a day, or 18 kilos a year. If we want to protect the rain forests in Brazil, it is not worth refusing to eat Finnish food, but rather refusing to eat soy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u50	Madam President! In Finland, too, several factory closures have been reported in recent months, and in my own province a sawmill was closed in Kitee, while personnel were laid off in Swimharju. The weakened market situation in the forest industry is particularly concentrated in regions where jobs are low and employment has already been weak in advance. North Karelia has the most difficult unemployment situation in Finland. As a result of the loss of jobs in the forest industry, the situation in many municipalities is deteriorating significantly due to the multiplier effects. I would like to ask: is the government prepared to take measures to increase the funding for innovation in order to develop and promote new timber products, in order to create new business activities and jobs, especially in the context of unemployment, in Eastern Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u51	Madam President! In this way, Finland, as the EU Presidency, is under special scrutiny from many directions and in many areas. We are considered a civilized nation with high morals and wise ideas. Unfortunately, however, we are particularly lagging behind in animal welfare matters, both in the Nordic countries and in several European countries. There has already been an commendable mention of animal protection issues in the debate, but we all know that, unfortunately, the previous government did not receive a reformed animal welfare law, despite great expectations. There is a great need for reform, there is a crying shortage, and the law needs to be updated as soon as possible to meet the rest of the Nordic level. I would ask the Minister: what is the timetable for the reform of this animal welfare law, and when can we really expect it?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u52	Madam President! Nature tourism has grown significantly, and Finland’s nature is rich. There is a certain network of forest management throughout the country, which is good for tourism and nature tourism, and there is also fishing and so on, but there is now little debt, which means that these routes are in really bad shape. I went to Ylläs last autumn and there have been corrections, but the lack of money is significant. Now we have more money, but how does the Minister see whether it will be enough to fix all this that is needed at the moment?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u53	Madam President! We have a unique countryside and players with a great heart in rural areas. I think that both regions and people should all try to take care of, at least with as much intensity as we try to find good solutions in health care. The parliamentary working group in the sparsely populated region, rural areas, started its work last season, and we had very good meetings. We have completed the final report, and it will be handed over to Minister Resta tomorrow. We are pleased that, I believe, about 70% of our proposals were transferred to the Government Programme, but I would ask if Mr Leppä could also get a close look at the remaining good proposals as to whether they could be carried forward in some way. Then on the welfare of rural actors: less bureaucracy, and when inspectors go, could they in a certain way have such a supportive grip, that at the same time the welfare of rural actors would also be examined and discussed?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u54	Mr President! Animal welfare is also very much involved in this debate. By far the majority of Finns, 90 per cent, would like the status of animals to be improved. And in the government programme, animal welfare was now raised to its own goal and its goal. I would like to ask Minister Lepä how and by what means the government will promote animal welfare next year. Then this sustainable food system. Indeed, it has now become an increasingly important role in climate policy, the last time in August the IPCC called for the food system to simply change. One of the key ways to do this is to increase vegetarian food. I would say to Mr Östman and Mr Kärnä that the Government's own reports have also come to this conclusion. And that is also what we are committed to in the Government Programme. So we're committed to doing this climate food program. We are committed to increasing vegetarian food in public procurement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u55	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Restä, for the introduction and for answering questions. Finland wants to be bigger than its size in the world, and these challenges for the future are very diverse. There are parts of your industry that we Finns can influence, and others that we can't. One, of course, which we cannot influence is this global market economy. But then sustainable development, climate change issues, technological development, we can influence these. Question to you, Minister: Cleantech issues, surveying issues, these are things where Finns are really good. How can we be larger in the world so that, through development aid, we can ensure food security in Africa so that migrants do not have to leave their homes with climate change? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u56	And now let's give the Minister an answer, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u57	Madam Speaker! Let's start with a little mixed order, but let's try to wade through. In other words, the bureaucratic issue, I will come back to it in a little bit more detail, that is what was asked. It is the starting point for all things that governance is smooth, that the administrative burden is as small as possible, especially for all farmers and entrepreneurs and, of course, for all of us citizens. And that's our motto, from supervisor to coach — from supervisor to coach. And this principle goes through all the activities we do, and it is on the agency all the time. One of the things that helps to do this is that we have increased digitality, and that will also make monitoring more smooth and easier. We also want to make a strong contribution to this. They asked about nature travel. I just didn't answer it. We all remember that just over a month ago, Finland was chosen as the best nature tourism country in the world. Regrettably, I saw some headlines about this anywhere. Now let us make sure that this is also reported and communicated around the world and to us Finns. Finland is the best nature tourism country in the world. By the way, it tells us something about our actions, about our nature and about the possibility that this involves, and also about the willingness to invest in it in terms of routes, in terms of operating conditions, but it is clear that we need even more, by leveraging more resources to ensure that we are able to maintain and keep in good condition all those structures that we have. As far as food exports are concerned, we have a goal and it must first be the Swedish level and then the last objective is the Danish level. When comparing Finland, Sweden and Denmark with regard to food exports, we are helplessly behind the other Nordic countries. Here we have something to tighten up because our production can withstand any comparison, including with these countries. It's obvious. When we talk about food — and the point was made here too — that price intensity is the most important thing. Let me remind you that cheap food always pays for someone. It's always someone's price. What's that? It is a farmer, it is an animal welfare, it is an environment, it is a climate. That's what it costs. These are cheap food. In other words, food has both value and price, and we need to get this thing right more clearly. And that is where this Finnish approach — responsible, sustainable — is very, very good. Well, then, predator policy. We have been working very hard for two and a half years in that Europe so that we can have flexibility in our predatory policy throughout Europe and thus also in Finland. That work is still going on, and we are now, probably right here in the near future, getting to know the ruling of the European Court of Justice on our position-making hunting. We will then draw conclusions on how we will deal with this. At the moment, it is not possible to do that in the case of the wolf, because we are there in the court, Finland is there. But we have the two lines, the police line, that is, the removal of the animal — the harassing animal, the animal causing damage and danger — and the other line is that we receive damage-based permits issued by the game administration. We hope, of course, that we will have more flexibility. That is what we are working on and we have worked hard on, as well as all the other issues relating to agriculture, rural areas, forestry policy in the European Union. We, as the presidency, have not started lobbying in Finland, but we have done so strongly before. That is our duty and that is what we have done. And I can certainly say that it has been done and it has been done a great deal so that these northern conditions, our conditions here, will enable sensible, profitable competitive action. And one more detail about this CAP 2027: It cannot be that more power is transferred to the Commission — it cannot be that way. And the Commission itself proposes in its own communication that the Member States should have more room for manoeuvre in the new CAP. This is a good thing for us, and that is what we are holding to as a presidency, that is quite clear. Animal Welfare Act, schedule. We'll have to go a long way in the next year. I cannot yet say the exact date for that, but next year we will have to be very far along with it, and we want to take it forward. Finally, Mr President, the proposals of the sparsely populated network. They are very good and the remaining 30% will be looked at in a very positive way. It was a very good piece of paper which you have achieved in this House, and thank you for that too.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u58	Thank you, Mr Leppä, Minister for Agriculture and Forestry. Let's switch sectors to the educational and cultural sectors. — Minister Andersson, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u59	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Whether it is about reducing inequalities, promoting employment or the need to increase understanding and interaction in society, the debate will always return to education and its enormous importance. The investment in education now makes our welfare state stronger and prepares it for the challenges of the coming decades. Education is also a specific response to the challenges that Finland is facing at the moment. Technological development raises skills requirements in the sector as well as in the field and role as in the task. At the same time, the skills gap is becoming more and more vulnerable to unemployment. Companies are currently suffering from skills shortages and difficulties in finding a skilled workforce with a record number of job vacancies. At the same time, however, the rise in Finland's educational level has stopped so that in the late 1970s, the births are estimated to be the most educated generation in our country. Equally worrying is the increase in inequalities in education. Inequality is reflected in an increase in learning differences due to regional, gender and the student’s home background. The Government has set the goal of education and training policy that education and skills levels should rise at all levels of education, that learning differences should be narrowed and that educational equality should be increased. The draft budget for 2020 will finally bring the desired direction to education policy. After too long training cuts, the situation is now looking brighter than it has been for a long time. Every child's equal right to full-time early childhood education will be returned to the whole country. The child’s right to early childhood education is no longer dependent on where he or she lives or whether his or her parents are employed or unemployed. The law amendment is expected to enter into force in August 2020, and in order to enable the change, the central government share of municipalities will be increased by EUR 7.1 million in 2020 and by EUR 17 million annually. The sizes of child groups in early childhood education are also reduced to take account of the child’s individual needs. In the future, there may be children over three years of age, instead of up to seven today’s eight. This change also increases the central government share of municipalities. A total of EUR 125 million will be allocated to the quality and equality programme for early childhood education for three years. The programme will develop, among other things, a model of three-step support, pilot two-year pre-school education and extend the free part-time experiment of five-year-olds. A total of EUR 180 million will be allocated to the quality and equality programme for basic education for the years 2020 to 2022. The aim of this programme is to strengthen educational equality, support teaching and strengthen the quality of basic education. The project aims to address the segregation of learning outcomes, to strengthen support for learning and the quality of education, and to support flexible and individual transitions in early years. Important efforts are also made to promote quality and equality in education and training. We are proposing to increase the resources for education and guidance in vocational education and training by EUR 80 million. This additional appropriation can be used to recruit new teachers and instructors, to increase the number of lessons for current hourly teachers and to recruit the necessary staff to support the teaching. With these efforts, we want to secure the right of students to adequate contact education, while creating a model for whole study days and weeks in cooperation with the education providers. From 2020 onwards, the unit price of upper secondary school education will be increased by EUR 18 million, of which the central government share will be EUR 7.5 million and the municipal contribution will be EUR 10.5 million. Mr President! In a rapidly changing world, Finland’s strongest competitive edge is a high level of competence
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u60	Minister Kosonen, including five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u61	Mr President! The 2020 budget proposal includes a number of additions related to higher education and science, culture and art, sport, sport, youth work and student support. These measures raise Finnish expertise and bring stability and peace of development to higher education institutions. The funding of art and culture supports creative work and production and their equal accessibility. Funding for sports and young people promotes a physical life, well-being and health — physical activity for all. Funding for higher education and research will increase by a total of EUR 144 million in 2020. The rise is due to index increases and the increase in basic funding, of which universities account for 40 million and polytechnics EUR 20 million. The increase in this level of funding is permanent.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u64	And now for those of you who want to ask these supplementary questions on the affairs of these sectors: stand up and press the V button. — Chairman of the Education Committee, represented by Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, ministers. After all, there is a lot of good in this budget here in the education sector, and I will return to that study a little later. But with such a long teacher experience and a lot of research on this subject: when we always talk about it, and the government program also invests in the trust of the researched knowledge, now that the economists or other experts have been asked where to invest, they say we should invest in early years. We're having problems with the joints. Ten per cent have major problems in the various stages of their studies — 6,000 young people decide on comprehensive school without literacy, writing or arithmetic. And what happens at second grade? There is also the 10% suspension rate. We have a lot of distance learning, teachers don't have the resources to be under practical guidance, skills are fading — and now we're investing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u66	Mr President! Over the past 30 years, more than half a million jobs have been lost in Finland for which primary education has been sufficient. At the same time, as much as 16 per cent of the age group are left to primary school alone. Less than half, 41.6 per cent, of those who depend on primary school alone are employed. Major structural reforms have been called for in this debate on the budget and are now coming. One of them is that, in a changing world, when nine years of primary school is no longer enough, the government is now extending compulsory education in order to ensure adequate training for everyone and to improve people's access to employment. If you remember the time when a Finnish success story was created in comprehensive school, then the right-wing opposition to comprehensive school was about the same arguments as the extension of compulsory education now, even though it is precisely the question that the entire nation will receive adequate education. When, Minister Andersson, will you bring a proposal to extend compulsory education here in Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u67	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The additional funding for education is really important and that is what preventive work is going to be. Thank you for that. There are 20 million additional contributions to universities of applied sciences. In both cases, the number of qualifications is increasing and this will lead to the continuation of a decline in the resources allocated to one education after the investments. One-off investments in early childhood education are well below the government programme figures. So you're not interested in investing in early childhood education anymore? What are we going to do about teachers? And, as you yourself have said, Minister Andersson, there should also be such multiprofessional cooperation within the walls of the school, which then responds especially to the needs of the challenging students: people who have time for them. These deceived promises are no longer something you would like to hear — as is the case with the fact that almost all government parties promised non-parents who live independently for over 18 years before the elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u68	Mr President! Firstly, I must say to this topical debate that I am very pleased that education and education are of great interest. The second thing I want to say is that I think that Finnish comprehensive school and the Finnish education system are still top-notch in the world, and it is a wonderful thing that this government programme has invested in it so clearly from a baby to a grandfather. As far as this programme on quality and equality in early childhood education is concerned, I think it is the right way to leave this early stage to increase support. There have been a number of concerns about the need for support for vocational training, for example, and I fully sign them. I would like to ask Minister Andersson how this development of three levels of support and the improvement of quality and equality in early childhood education is linked to the work of this programme for the change in child and family services.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u69	Mr President! Thank you, ministers, for the good introductions. I personally think that the most important value in this country is that the right to equal, good childhood and equal education should belong here to every child. And from next autumn, every child in this country will again have that equal right to participate in early childhood education, and children will no longer be divided on the basis of their parents into those who are excluded and those who are allowed to participate. At the same time, group sizes will be reduced and quality improved. This is an act against children's class society. The bad decisions of the last government will be withdrawn and quality will be improved, because, just as has been said here, those first steps in the learning path will be the most important steps. In early childhood education, however, every single euro is needed. This budget, if any, is a budget of equal education and equal childhood.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u70	Mr President! It is indeed the case that education policy is radically changing, and that is a great thing. As Minister Andersson pointed out in his speech, there is a great deal of concern about the growing differences in learning, especially according to the background of children, the social class. In addition, the level of competence and the level of education are falling. We have talked a lot about the low participation rate in early childhood education, and I would have asked Mr Andersson what the means are to improve this now, and what the level of effort is and what the long-term cost implications are that this change is supposed to have. Last season, 940 million people were cut off from education and I would like to hear from both ministers how you assessed the impact of these cuts on the whole field of education.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u71	Mr President! Prime Minister Rinte's government has received rosary praises for investing in education. I now have the fine song of Vera Telenius, “a million million, a million roses”. This is true, namely that now the direction is changing, the government parties kept their promise to restore honour to education. I would like to take the floor briefly if I could read the comments of all those who thank me. Two examples: ‘Academia is satisfied with the Government’s presentation’, says Peter Lempinen, ‘The management of the OAJ’s EasyMother wishes to The Education Committee was a guest of the OAJ for an hour and a half this morning, and there was a special rise in this vocational education and training.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u72	Mr President! At all levels, the Finnish education system must focus on the health of the working environment of pupils and teachers, the ability of staff, the moderation of group sizes, the humanity of journeys and the eradication of bullying. Mr President! Bullying results in serious social and health problems that have been investigated. Bullying a child can make school a real hell. It even drives children and young people into suicides. The State must make use of all possible means to eradicate bullying. I would like to ask: what does Minister Andersson intend to do to eradicate bullying? And I would ask again: do you think, Minister Andersson, that the bully should change schools? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u73	Mr President! Yes, now it seems that there are many thorns among these government training roses. Recruitment of additional teachers in vocational training is a good thing and a very good thing, but hiring teachers only temporarily is an act of confusion on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u74	Mr President! Yes, I am surprised at the speeches made by some of the opposition representatives about this civilised budget, which is, in fact, an all-time civilised budget. I myself have been working for about 20 years right there in the grass-roots front line and I can assure you that the grassroots level thanks for this budget. It is a clear and concrete increase in the level of the welfare state. First of all, I would like to thank Minister Koso for his exceptionally strong increases in favour of Finnish higher education and polytechnics, i.e. an increase of nearly EUR 130 million. How to ensure such territorial fairness and the impact of appropriations on the level of education
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u75	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Early childhood education is the right of every child. The time for educational cuts of two parliamentary periods is now over, and the direction has changed. The Government will first restore subjective early childhood education rights to each child and reduce group sizes. Research shows that quality early childhood education is an excellent investment because it narrows learning gaps at an early stage and prevents exclusion. No child shall be replaced. To confirm this, the government has committed itself to three levels of support so that each child receives appropriate and timely support in early childhood education. Our children deserve the best, and it is up to us adults to offer them the best possible building blocks for a lifetime journey.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u76	Mr President! In Finland, comprehensive school has been a success story worldwide: every child has been offered an opportunity to study. I would like primary school to be the best comprehensive school in the world in the future, but there are great concerns, and here I would like to raise our children's literacy, arithmetic and writing skills. Literacy, math and writing was a concern for the past season. We will have a large number of children and young people, school graduates who cannot properly read, count or write, and I personally would see that if our children get through the elementary school classes without proper basic skills it is a disservice. Now I would like to ask: how do you intend to act in the Ministry so that in future no children will come out of our comprehensive school who are not good or at least moderately good at reading, counting and writing?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u77	Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister for Education now that this second-degree reform is being put into practice — when it was started during the last period by cutting and taking away the opportunities for sensible preparation: how can we ensure the completion of vocational education and training for the various learners? With my own dyslexia, I can tell you that the path would be really rocky at the moment. When I dropped out of vocational school, there was not so much desire to read, but there was a desire to work. At the moment, young people have no paths to the profession. How do young people, boys and girls who want to work but who are hindered by the lack of a secondary education certificate or a high school certificate work in this section? In many cases, the apprenticeship path does not open, as employers still require a qualification basis. It's a distress call that we don't want to.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u78	Mr President! Every child must have the right to learn. Unfortunately, this is not the case, it is not the case in early childhood education, it is not the case either in basic education or in secondary education. The need for special education has increased throughout Finland. There's a desperate shortage of special teachers. I'm sure we've all heard about it and received feedback about it. It is not just a single child or young person who needs special support, but it is a whole learning group and environment where all children could learn, and therefore the importance of special teachers in the need for individual education, but also in the learning of the whole group, is extremely important. Now I would ask the Minister: what will the government do to improve the availability of our special teachers in both early childhood education and basic education?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u79	Mr President! Secretary Andersson! A large number of teaching professionals criticise this increase in compulsory schooling age for 18 years and say that drinks should instead be invested in basic education. I have also heard this from many Members here that the problem is there, certainly not there in secondary education. However, now that it is being brought into the law, have you noticed that the need for individual support in secondary education there will increase enormously, because that basic education will become students whose basic skills are not sufficient for that secondary education?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u80	Mr President! First of all, thank you, because it is absolutely necessary to give them. It is great that education is being invested in and, for example, there will now be investments in early childhood education. However, I would also like to ask about this, since, according to the studies, it is also impressive to invest in this particular area in the early years and we still have the lowest participation rate in early childhood education in comparison with the other Nordic countries: do you now have a budget to continue with the increase in participation rates, i.e. two-year pre-school pilots, the continuation of the free early childhood education experiment for five-year-olds, the reduction in payments in general? The second point I would like to ask you is: Of course, during the last term of government, a lot of money was cut — also returned to education — but one of the things that was taken care of all the time was that public investment, direct investment in research, remained on an ever-increasing path. Now 31 million are being cut from the Finnish Academy’s admissions mandate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u81	Mr President! I thank the government for investing in education. Education is the strong foundation of our society. The compulsory education age is now rising, and various types of studies, forms of support, which can then be included in upper secondary education, are being built into compulsory education. They want to catch kids. Young people have three paths after basic education: vocational education, upper secondary school and third path, i.e. folk high schools, tenth grade classes, workshops, rehabilitation and preparatory education. The costs related to compulsory education are fully reimbursed to the providers of education. It is great that there are many paths for young people, because we are not from the same tree, we are different learners. Among the young, there are handmaidens who find it difficult to sit on the school bench. They are well suited for apprenticeship training. I'll ask Minister Andersson:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u82	Mr President! The government is increasing the funding of physical activity, good, but there are, of course, grey clouds on top of it, because it seems that in the future, at least in the near future, Veikkaus will be making less revenue, which will also have a direct impact on the financing of physical activity and sport. In particular, it may be reflected in the construction of sports facilities or in support of non-governmental organisations, and so on. Should the resources of physical activity and other beneficiaries of Veikkaus' funding be more secure from the state budget than from Veikkaus in the future? Or will, for example, the speeding up of the lottery law and its new possibilities have a more positive impact on these resources, what will these beneficiaries have in the future? It's a vision of this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u83	Mr President! Returning Sweden to high school writings is one of those things that evokes a wide range of feelings among boys, and it is known that boys have considerable problems with this. In addition, it can be considered among Finnish-speaking people that studying Swedish is not in such a way equal that Finnish-speaking people live mainly in municipalities where no Swedish is spoken at all, while those who speak Swedish as a rule, in their municipalities or neighbouring regions have a huge number of Finnish-speaking people, so it is much easier for them to study this language. Minister for Education, will he return?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u84	Mr President! I would like to express my appreciation for the fact that there is now another opportunity to invest a little in education. This is important because, in the early years, in primary school, the second stage creates the conditions for future success in working life. In the field of special education in comprehensive school, it is quite often the case that resources are not such that teachers, for example, have enough time for three steps of support; administrative papers take too much of this effort. I would like the Minister to be able to open up some of his ideas about this, how, for example, we could strengthen comprehensive school by means of teacher training or other measures. I also welcome the fact that it has been decided to continue to secure the funding of physical activity, even if the profit margin is reduced. But, Mr President, when the Greens came to the government, the Academy of Finland is now being cut off: was it the idea of the Greens, or where did this come from?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u85	Now both ministers have asked for an answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u91	Minister Kosonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u92	Mr President! The representative of Koponen's question about the degree objectives of the university of applied sciences education or the additions to the place of origin: We have discussions between universities and polytechnics that will take place until that spring, and together we will consider whether they can be raised in relation to which university, polytechnic or whether they can be maintained in the current objectives. The reason we are on the uphill road is because this is precisely the wish that has come from the university field. A very good question, too, about the training of teachers: We have a pull coming up, we're just getting started, so let's really think about those needs and also the reasons why it's going down a little bit at the moment. I've got to get this over with right now. In response to Mr Honkasalo's response to the effects of these cuts: In the Government Programme work, we made a good statement that the most important thing is to restore the peace of work for the university. Perhaps the most important act of this — even from the mouth of universities — is that the indexes have now been restored for the entire government term and that basic funding has also been significantly increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u97	We shall now continue the debate and the round will be opened by the chairman of the Committee on Education, Mr Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Let me be more specific about Mr Kosonen: I am very pleased that you have received the fact that this is not the basic funding for universities. It is a great thing that we can start these additions in the coming year. But I'd like to ask if there's money coming to the starting points separately, and I'd like to ask you which starting points are actually going to rise. As a particular question, how about in the field of social services, for example, when we need a lot of new people there. Will you be brief about them? Then there is this R & D funding: the objective is that 4% of GDP should be reached at some point. So what kind of plan do you have for that path?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u99	Mr President! I must say that the most important aspect of this budget proposal is that we now have the honour of restoring education and research after years and years of cuts. It's changing, and it's important. But if one decision here should be raised, if only one decision, then the most important decision of this sector is that from next August one single child from the day-care centre will not be sent home before meals just because the parents are unemployed — just because the parents are unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u102	Mr President! In the field of education, many important issues are outside these actual monetary factors, at the level of the policy. In basic education, it is important to safeguard the peace of the school, which requires the restoration of the authority of the teachers. In learning, it is important to monitor and measure learning and to set requirements for students that are also adhered to. This phenomenon-based learning should not be taken too far, but the management of the basics must be given sufficient attention first. Inclusion in schools has not functioned on the basis of the feedback received. In these matters, Finland has moved in a bad direction. At the same time that Finland was acclaimed as a model country in all international comparisons at the turn of the millennium, we ourselves have started to imitate trends from elsewhere too much, to our own detriment. Minister, do you intend to look at the fundamental issues I have raised above to genuinely correct errors, to preserve the conditions for learning and the highest possible level of Finnish school?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u103	Mr President! Happy Aleksis Stone and Finnish Literature Day for all! Even now thousands of teachers and schoolchildren are at work, and teachers have received a lot of messages about how many are tired. When you do that work every day, you will see how different the needs of the students are. One needs to be separated because of dyslexia, the other because of the new Finnish language, one needs to be held and tender because the teacher may be the only adult in the everyday life of the day. The teacher may take care of the sugars of a diabetic student, even though he has no training in the field. On the other hand, there are situations in which the student has to fear the parents and their encounters. So many people experience that fatigue in their work, and this has just been seen in the applicant statistics. I would like to ask how the government intends to improve the daily lives of schoolchildren and school staff to invest in it, and how we are investing above all in the management of schools.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u104	Mr President! Education cuts in the previous years and a ploying education policy have undermined trust, quality and equality in the field of education and, fortunately, this is changing now. The road to education cuts has been completed, and all levels of education will be invested in from early childhood education onwards. Of course, we'll have to start from the rear by cleaning up after the drastic cuts last season. Perhaps, in reference to the previous speeches that have been made here, it is good to say that the Greens have consistently worked hard for every euro targeted at education. It is really great that a civilised government has now been established in Finland, where these things can be promoted together. Is it the conscience of the members of the coalition who force them to find guilty of their own mistakes elsewhere? For good reason, the government has set itself the goal of increasing the number of children in early childhood education, and this will require both the removal of barriers and new forms of encouragement. In addition to these cutbacks, it is great that the quality and equality programme
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u105	Mr President! I would say that this is a work done by five parties and a government programme. And I thank the ministers, I thank the whole government and all those involved for finally and finally getting the credit back to the Finnish primary school system that belongs to it. It's a brand in the world. People admire it. School meals are free, they do not exist in many other countries here in the world, and that is also a very important issue. School health care must continue to be focused on and on these specific needs of young people, and on the need for special support. It is certainly a resource that you can never put too much effort into, but now this government is investing in it too, which is very important. The subjective day care right is the right of the child to early childhood education and it is important that it is returned. The last government — the Finns of Peru and the National Coalition Party —
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u106	Now there are also a few speeches about the National Coalition Party and the Finns of Peru, so let us give them the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u107	Mr President! However, in order not to forget the truth, it is now honest to say that without the increase in employment created by the Sipilä government today, there would be no increase in education appropriations. No one wants to cut their education. Some were just faced with such a situation at the time, and now it is easier to speak when others have handled the matter. [Jukka Gustafsson’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u108	Mr President! What are the reasons for the government’s finding that safeguarding the exclusive right of Veikkaus will curb gambling disadvantages? When the Board of Directors stresses the need to safeguard the operating conditions of Veikkaus, why does the Board not at the same time want to require the addition of experts in the decision-making bodies of Veikkaus Corporation? How does the government intend to address the minimisation of financing of socially important sites with speed levers recycled through Veikkaus? And how does the government intend to secure for those with gambling problems a public environment both physically and online where they are not constantly exposed to aggressive gambling ads?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u109	I must return to Mr Vikman's speech. Actually, there was a double error. You criticise the fact that, exceptionally, the government has decided on these investment funds for five years to hire teachers, instructors for vocational training. I can promise you that, if and when the demos are in the government after the next election, these working relationships will continue, of course.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u112	Congressman Gustafsson, time is up. Congressman Laiho's turn.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u113	Mr President! Every young person should have the opportunity to study on an equal basis, both in comprehensive school and in further education, especially in further education, if there are prerequisites and motivations. The number of higher education places is clearly lagging behind from other OECD countries, and Finland is on this trail. At the same time, we have a crying shortage of social workers, for example, in child welfare, in the early services of children, and they are trained specifically at the university. In addition, there is a crying shortage of kindergarten teachers, speech therapists and nurses. However, this draft budget contains only 1 million, which is apparently intended for university of applied sciences. This is a losing little, a ridiculous little, to put it bluntly. How much do you intend to increase the number of higher education and polytechnic places and in what areas could you tell us about these areas?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u114	Mr President! Mr Li Andersson, you are about to order a demonstration in front of this House. We have talked a lot in this Chamber about the fact that young people must not be sidelined, and most of all I have received messages from young people about forced Swedish. Young people aged 16 to 19 are concerned that, in accordance with the entry in the Government Programme, you have written: ‘The Board shall set the target for the return of another domestic language as a mandatory requirement in the matriculation examination. “ Have you calculated the cost of reducing young people’s opportunities for further learning, especially for boys? It's an act of marginalisation, marginalisation, young people. And I would ask you, the government parties, not to be present in that sword, as you were in that climate sword to protest against your own policy. Mrs Suomela, Mr Ovaska, Mr Kemppi, do not be present when that demonstration is being held in front of Parliament against the forced Swedish.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u115	Mr President! It is true that this first budget proposal by the government deserves those rose flowers, as Mr Gustafsson, a civilist politician of my esteem, said here. [TimoHeinonenarvous] As far as this Academy of Finland is concerned, Minister Kosonen here well stated that these changes are technical. And when you look at the university policy line of the government and the draft budget, this strengthening of basic funding is the main line.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u116	Mr President! The importance of language skills can never be overemphasized. Several studies have made it clear that the earlier language learning begins, the easier language learning will be, and language learning will also play an important role in preventing educational inequality. It is very good that the important project carried out by the Sipilä Government comes into force at the beginning of next year — the A1 language learning begins in the first grade, and it is very good that you are keeping this going. I would like to thank the Government for its efforts to promote free leisure opportunities in connection with school day, i.e. the creation of the Finnish Icelandic model. And I would like to ask you about a more precise timetable: when is this Finnish Iceland model supposed to come into force? If you can tell me more about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u117	Mr President! Indeed, the Government Programme states that ‘the effectiveness of special education legislation and its relatedinclusion and the adequacy of the resources allocated to them’. At the beginning of July, Minister Andersson promised in his own blog article to take measures specifically to improve special education. With regard to the effectiveness of Inklusion, it has long been established that it does not work. Special classes and small groups have been abolished in its name. However, these closures have not transferred the resources used for special classes with these children to those large categories. The budget book does not contain a word on the teaching side about the resources of the intensified support students, or special education, let alone a reduction in class sizes. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for more concrete measures and the euro to ensure that there is sufficient support for special pupils. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u118	Mr President! According to a survey commissioned by Statistics Finland, around 15 per cent of all comprehensive school pupils received intensified or special support for learning in 2015, i.e. about one in six children or young people. At the same time, however, in early childhood education and basic education, group sizes have increased specifically in recent years and special groups have been abolished. This government finally wants to correct this and, among other things, reduce the group sizes of early childhood education. Equally strong attention should also be paid to ensuring and implementing the accessibility of children and young people with sensory hypersensitivity, which also has a fundamental impact on the ability of children and young people to learn. Special groups should continue to be available for triangularity, and this is something that this government wants to take care of. I would now like to ask the Minister: what is the government going to do to improve the identification, understanding and implementation of sensory integrity? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u119	Mr President! The availability of vocational education and training speaks throughout the country. While in the south there is a great deal of pain about training places, there is great concern outside the regional centres about access to vocational training. So I ask the ministers: what does the government do to ensure that the provision of vocational training is equal in geographical terms?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u120	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say to the new government parties that it is also worth remembering the situation in which the Sipilä government started four years ago. If the Sipilä government had not put the economy and employment in order through its own efforts, we could not be aggravation here about what is being put into everything. Then I'd like to ask Minister Andersson: Over the last few years we have been talking specifically about the constitution and equality of men and women, and I personally think, at least, about early childhood education and basic education, that we will have major problems in ensuring the cultural rights of children and young people when we also have so many large-scale municipalities in sparsely populated areas. Since you are well aware that in our 90 municipalities at the moment fewer than 20 children are born, I would like to know whether the government and the minister have already given particular thought to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u121	Mr President! I have to say that as big a problem as school bullying in this country, there is no money available in the budget for bullying in schools other than ‘promoting the well-being of learners, community and continuing efforts to reduce school bullying’. Everyone knows how past measures have worked. No way. Seriously, aren't there any members of the government who have been bullied at school? You really don't have any? There's over a hundred of you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u123	Mr President! In this matter of compulsory education, there are very good things to think about in terms of the whole, this early childhood education and the extension of the compulsory education age. It is an act of equality for children and young people, enabling them to acquire a profession regardless of their income... [Department : Now my silence! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u124	Congressman Hopsu.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u282	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u287	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u288	Congressman Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u289	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u294	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u295	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u296	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u297	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u298	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u299	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u300	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u301	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u303	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u304	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u305	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u306	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u307	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u308	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u309	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u310	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u311	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u312	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u313	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u314	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u315	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u316	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u317	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u318	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u319	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u320	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u321	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u322	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u323	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u324	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u325	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u326	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u327	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u328	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u329	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u330	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u331	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u332	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u333	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u334	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u335	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u336	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u337	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u338	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u339	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u340	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u341	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u342	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u343	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u344	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u345	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u346	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u347	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u348	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u349	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u350	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u351	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u352	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u353	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u354	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u355	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u356	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u357	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u358	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u359	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u360	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u361	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u362	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u363	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u364	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u365	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u366	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u367	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u368	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u369	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u370	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u371	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u372	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u373	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u374	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u375	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u376	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u377	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u378	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u379	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u380	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u381	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u382	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u383	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u384	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u385	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u386	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u387	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u388	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u389	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u390	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u391	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u392	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u393	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u394	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u395	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u396	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u397	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u398	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u399	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u400	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u401	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u402	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u403	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u404	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u405	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u406	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u407	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u408	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u409	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u410	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u411	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u412	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u413	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u414	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u415	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u416	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u417	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u418	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u419	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u420	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u421	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u422	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u423	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u424	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u425	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u426	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u427	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u428	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u429	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u430	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u431	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u432	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u433	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u434	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u435	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u436	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u437	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u438	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u439	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u440	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u441	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u442	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u443	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u444	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u445	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u446	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u447	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u448	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u449	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u450	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u451	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u452	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u453	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u454	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u455	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u456	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u457	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u458	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u459	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u460	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u461	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u462	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u463	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u464	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u465	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u466	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u467	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u468	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u469	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u470	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u471	Next question, Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u472	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u473	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u474	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u475	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u476	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u477	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u478	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u479	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u480	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u481	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u482	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u483	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u484	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u485	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u486	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u487	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u488	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u489	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u490	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u491	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u492	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u493	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u494	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u495	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u496	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u497	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u498	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u499	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u500	Madam President! We're having the world's mental health day today. Mental health problems affect thousands of Finns and their relatives. It is a pity, therefore, that this debate did not find the time before this Question Time. That is why I would like to ask only briefly the Minister so that perhaps we can hear the answer: What is the government going to do to promote access to low-threshold mental health services at the level of primary health care? Are you going to support the implementation of the therapeutic guarantee, or are we still waiting for these services to be improved up to the time when the reform of social services will take place?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u501	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u502	Mr President! I think the rest of your question gave the answer the right direction. There is no time to wait for structural reform, but there is also a substantive reform. I have already said here that mental health problems are a serious social threat, not only from the wider perspective of society but also from the perspective of the individual. Life should be offered to all, and it also includes the right to mental health. In this respect, the problems are not new. This regime has now been going on for almost four months. We have put a mental health strategy in the field and it gives us a plan for what will be done. Everything has to do with the need for a low level of access to the health centres of the future, as part of basic health care, to the doctor and also to treatment. Not everyone needs just a doctor or a doctor alone, but needs treatment. And this will be done as part of the national treatment guarantee that will be implemented. And the therapy guarantee is exactly what you want.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-10-ps-48.u503	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
