ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 41/2018 vp. The committee proposes that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u2	Mr President! This has been a very much debated issue in committee. This is therefore a citizens' initiative which actually proposes an amendment to Article 50 of the Health Care Act. This is a debate on the need for extensive round-the-clock emergency services. Currently, pursuant to Article 50 of the Health Care Act, a large 24-hour emergency service is concentrated in 12 units. Accordingly, a large-scale emergency care hospital provides services in a number of specialist medical fields 24 hours a day and immediately, and the law requires that such a hospital also have the resources to maintain the necessary preparedness in health care and to deal with special situations. The citizens' initiative suggests that the Hospital District of Vaasa should be included in the list of 12 such units. Mr President! This conversation has a long history. First of all, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs already stressed the linguistic rights of Article 17 of the Constitution in its opinion when the amendment to the Health Care Act was made here in Parliament and stated that the best solution to implement them would be to invest a large-scale emergency services unit in the Hospital District of both Vaasa and South Ostrobothnia. This opinion is therefore from 2016. Article 50(3) of the Health Care Act, following the above-mentioned opinion of the Constitutional Committee, introduced a provision that, in order to safeguard the linguistic rights of the population, the Hospital District of South Ostrobothnia must provide on-call services in Finnish and Swedish so that the patient can receive the services in the language of his choice. Consequently, that form of Article 50 of the Health Care Act was determined. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has also examined this issue from a large-scale emergency hospital as part of the social and regional reform. In its draft report on social welfare and regional reform, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health also examined the citizens' initiative to amend Article 50(3) of the Health Care Act in the context of Article 11(2) of the draft Law on Social Welfare and Regional Reform, i.e. the citizens' initiative which we are discussing today was linked to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to the examination of social welfare reform. There was a great deal of clarification then and the committee stated in those draft reports that, according to its report, the Hospital District of South Ostrobothnia has organised training in Swedish for its staff in recent years more intensively and, according to the information received, it is also available to us the detail that the Swedish language skills of staff in the on-call area in particular have been improved and that more than 300 employees have participated in the Swedish language training. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health informed the committee that in 2017, 1.3 per cent of the outpatient visits to the hospital district of South Ostrobothnia were from the Hospital District of Vaasa and 182 of these persons had declared Swedish as their mother tongue. All in all, 25 Swedish-speaking residents of the Hospital District of Vaasa had used the services of the Emergency Hospital of Seinäjoki Central Hospital. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, after the amendment of the Health Care Act 2016, Vaasa Central Hospital has been able to maintain comprehensive emergency services that safeguard the services of the population. This draft report, to which I referred, was part of the committee's work on the reform of social welfare and health care. The Committee's reports went to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which stated in its opinion of 2018 that the reports presented in the draft report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health do not properly reflect the adequacy of the measures needed to implement linguistic rights and whether the legal obligation previously imposed by the committee as a matter of order to ensure that the Swedish-speaking people moving to Seinäjoki can use their native language in practice is sufficiently precise. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not therefore consider the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on the follow-up. On the other hand, the committee reiterated in a very recent opinion a couple of weeks ago that the best solution to implement the basic linguistic rights of Article 17 of the Constitution would be to place a large-scale on-call unit in the Hospital District of both Vaasa and South Ostrobothnia. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has now come to an end to the reform of social welfare and health care. The Council of Presidents of Parliament is in line that, due to the resignation of the Government, Parliament is no longer in a position to deal with social and regional reform. As a result, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health notes that the right of the Swedish-speaking population to emergency hospital care and other social and health care services in their own language and according to criteria similar to those for the Finnish-speaking population must also be safeguarded in practice. The Committee would like to remind us of the organisation of services, but also of patient safety and the importance of the quality of services. In conclusion, the committee notes that, on the basis of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the adequacy of the measures taken to implement linguistic rights and the need for better regulation still needs to be clarified, and that this report should be carried out by the Government. Therefore, the committee's statement is that the government should consider the status of Vaasa Central Hospital as a hospital for extensive emergency services as part of a whole of social and health services. Finally, it has to be said that this has often been the case in committee, and this committee's report also contains an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u3	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u4	Mr President, värderade talman! Social-och halsovårdsutskottet har i dag behandlat medborgarinitiativet som föreslår en ändring av älsovårdslagens 50 § så att Vasa centralsjukhus tas med i lien på fulljoursjukhus och att textten om att sjukhuset i Seinäjoki förutsätts ge vård och tjänster på både finska och svenska stryks.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u5	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! I politiken ska man aldrig ge upp när man vet att man jobbar för en viktig sak som handlar om rättvisa, om manniskors rätt till dirt behandling. Riksdagen har öjlighet att ta det viktiga besluet att bevilja Vasa centralsjukhus omfattande jour, helt i enlighet med det medborgarinitiv som 67,000 personer har undertecknat. Medborgarinitiativet är är är vä berett och därför borde riksdage helt i enlighet med ledamot Rehn-Kivis reservation godkanna initiative och fatta beslut att Vasa centralsjukhus får omfattande jour. Varför ska man skjuta på saken till nästa regeringsperiod då det finns alla förutsättningar att fatta beslut nu? Grundlagsutskottet har upprepade gånger constatat att de språkliga rättigheterna förverkligas bast om såväl Vasa centralsjuchus som Seinäjoki får ha centralsjukhus med omfattande jour. Det är nu vi ska fatta beslut. Det finns inga hållbara argument för att skjuta upp saken.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u6	Madam President! This citizens' initiative has taken quite a long time in that Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and just as has been said in the previous speeches, this has previously been dealt with as part of the government's reform of social security and its law of organisation, HE 15, which once set out this list of the hospitals which will have a large number of emergency services in the future. This extensive on-call service is already in practice in these hospitals that are on that list. In the case of Vaasa and Swedish speakers, these emergency on-call cases have then been handled in cooperation with Seinäjoki Central Hospital. As far as I am concerned, this service has played perfectly well, but the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has still raised questions during this process as to the effectiveness of this matter, as regards the safeguarding of linguistic rights, and has not been entirely convinced of the arrangement which, as it stands, has been proper from the constitutional point of view, but is not, of course, the best possible one, as has been said. So the best possible arrangement is what is proposed in this citizens' initiative, i.e. that both the Central Hospital of Seinäjoki and the Central Hospital of Vaasa are both on call at large hospitals. It is the best solution for the realisation of linguistic rights. It is probably also the best solution economically and functionally, because I personally do not see it as the best course of action, that, because of some dozens of patients in Seinäjoki, in principle — and in practice there is a need to support — to train employees to manage Swedish in practice. It is bureaucratic, it is a waste of resources if we have the option that these things can be dealt with at the end of Vaasa. The region has also become a strong expression of will in the form of this citizens' initiative. These close to 70,000 signatures were quickly collected. Seinäjoki Central Hospital and Seinäjoki Hospital District support the inclusion of Vaasa in this wide range of emergency clinics. And this initiative must be supported on all sides. In particular, this initiative must now be supported because, once the reform of social services has fallen in the form proposed, it can no longer be invoked — which has of course been a little problematic in the ranks of the government parties — that, once this group of large-scale emergency hospitals has been designated in that legislative project, it has been politically difficult to separate this issue from it. Now that it has fallen, we have a right and we have a duty to look at this issue as a matter of our own. As far as the quality and technology of this citizens' initiative are concerned, I have not seen any such clear citizens' initiative, which is succinct, briefly stating the reasons. It is a very well-drafted, simple and easy-to-go initiative in legal terms, because it wants to change only one paragraph and it is drafted in the form of a legislative initiative. Thank you very much for that. Instead, this proposal by the majority of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which I myself did not support — I supported this citizens' initiative there, Mr Rehn-Kive’s motion — is rather vague. As such, this statement welcomes the fact that this issue of Vaasa is being re-examined, but it is only technically clumsy. However, it says that Parliament would require the government to look at the status of Vaasa Central Hospital as a hospital for large-scale emergency services, as part of a whole of social and health services. The question arises: which government? At the moment, we have the Department of Delivery. We cannot oblige the next government; that is always a political issue. If we have a chance to deal with it here now, I think we should do it now. As an absent Member of Parliament, at least, I definitely want to make a contribution to this right now. I do believe that this initiative, when it is here in the last few minutes from the committee, will receive the support of a majority in this vote. I therefore appeal to all Members of Parliament, particularly those from the constituency of Vaasa, to have the opportunity now to deal with this matter, and now I wish them the courage to take this decision. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u8	Mr President! In this case, I suppose I should say: arade talman! This matter of Vaasa’s extensive emergency services was at the hearing in the context of the referral to the Law on the organisation of social services. After all, the background was this previous section of the Health Care Act, which had 12 hospitals with extensive emergency services. In the context of its reinforcement, the President of the Republic made a kind of reservation. This unfair decision then led to this talked-about citizens' initiative, which was signed by so many people. In connection with the debate on the subject of the war, the committee heard a very large number of experts on the Vaasa emergency services, and about all the experts were positive. The main arguments on behalf of Vaasa can be summarised as follows. First of all: In Vaasa Central Hospital, about half of the staff have their mother tongue in Swedish, which guarantees bilingualism. A truly bilingual service cannot be created artificially in a Finnish-speaking area. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has already stated that basic linguistic rights under the Constitution can best be achieved through geographical solutions. Secondly, the treatment results, quality and patient safety of Vaasa Central Hospital are top-notch in the country's assessment. Thirdly, the distance from Vaasa Central Hospital to the nearest university hospital is significantly longer than from any other central hospital, even Lapland. Fourthly: Vaasa Hospital District has a strong population base of about 170,000. And fifthly: Vaasa Central Hospital has already been able to maintain the current wide range of emergency services, while costs have been reduced, i.e. there is no financial justification for stopping the emergency services. In the expert consultation, the Seinäjoki Central Hospital also supported the Vaasa and Seinäjoki model. As has already been mentioned here, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also dealt with this issue in the context of the debate on social security, and in its opinion it was considered best that both Vaasa and the Seinäjoki should be hospitals for large-scale emergency services. Indeed, at the very end of the day, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in its opinion on the draft report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, returned to this issue and renewed its position that both Vaasa and Seinäjoki should be hospitals for large-scale emergency services. Well, it was well-knownly lost in the process of dealing with the war. At the very end of the day, thanks to Mr Rehn-Kiven, the discussion of the Vaasa citizens' initiative had not yet been closed. The committee has now come to an end, that is to say today, on the subject to which we had the opportunity to return. As I said earlier, the arguments on behalf of Vaasa are overwhelming. It is clear, however, that there is no possibility at this stage for the committee or Parliament to open up the Health Care Act and formally start preparing the necessary legislative amendment, although, as Mrs Saarakkala said, it is relatively simple, and the initiative itself is very well done. The committee states in its report that the necessary legislative drafting should be done by the Government. If we had gone down this road of drafting the law today, I believe that this would certainly have been a matter of time short-lived. That is why the committee's report is good. After all, the final decision states that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health notes that the adequacy of the measures taken to implement linguistic rights and the need to clarify regulation still needs to be clarified in the light of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The committee notes that the report must be carried out by the Government and the committee makes a statement. The adoption of this good initiative at this stage, without a corresponding formal amendment to the law and its proper preparation, would not in itself be binding on anything, at least on the basis of the administrative legal consultation that I have received, and if, therefore, this parliamentary statement, which is now being made, is adopted, it will ensure that the matter does not lapse and that the matter is brought to the political debate in the next government under the obligation of Parliament. The purpose of the statement is therefore to ensure further consideration of the matter. Mr President! Finally, it must be borne in mind that this necessary issue of emergency services at Vaasa Hospital is completely separate from the social models. It also does not lead to any domino effect. The decision is in itself simple and fair for the residents of Vaasa Central Hospital and the region. I therefore hope that when the next government, on the basis of a statement, takes the matter up, it will come to a broadly-proclaimed good solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u9	Thank you. — — — —
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u10	Mr President! I very much appreciate Mr Puska's expertise in this area and also the content of his speech, which irresistiblely demonstrated that this extensive emergency service should be in Vaasa. That was a clear line, as has been the case in previous speeches. But I do not understand his conclusion that nothing is being done here, but that a pious wish is being made to transfer this matter to the new government after the elections, when, as Mr Puska said, it is ultimately very simple: either there is a need and there is a large number of emergency services or there is no such thing. It is not so complicated to understand from outside the constituency either. I am very pleased that my party chairman, Mrs Rinne, at a very early stage, when this problem arose, said clearly that she is in favour and that the SDP is in favour of a large number of emergency services coming to Vaasa. I believe that this should now be resolved and that no commerves will be able to move it again. This is of genuine importance both for the development of Vaasa and for the rights of minorities in particular.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u11	Mr President! As Mr Puska well described in his speech, experts on a very large scale believe that the central hospital in Vaasa has a large number of emergency services. There are many reasons and reasons for this, not least the language issue, but also the distance from Vaasa to the nearest university center hospital. People living in Ostrobothnia are very strongly affected. Last Saturday In Vaasa, many came to me to ask what would happen to our central hospital. Perhaps my concern is precisely that, if we do what Mr Puska has said here, the uncertainty will continue, and it will be evident not only among the people in the region but also in the operation of this central hospital, in recruitment and in the day-to-day routine. That is why I think it would be most clear to make a decision tomorrow when we vote on it and to give Vaasa and the Central Hospital of Vaasa the status of a large emergency hospital. It would also be a strong positive signal of the credibility of the political system, which, in my opinion, has also received some unpleasant features in this process.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u12	Mr President! Yes, it is indeed surprising that we would like to move this matter to the next term of government when a decision could be taken already. What is really good about this is that the Social Democrats and, above all, Kim Berg, the head of trust at Vaasa Central Hospital, set up this citizens' initiative with 67422 names. What was unfortunate, however, was that it was not taken into account at all in the news on a national level. But in any case, we, the Social Democrats, were already on the point of taking this matter forward. That ball was immediately caught by Mr Rinne, who said at a very early stage that if this thing goes that way — as it now seems — we are not getting this full duty, then the Social Democrats will change that sooner or later. Now I wish that we could, together and in agreement, change this, because we have the same interests as the RKP, the Central Party,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u13	Madam President! There is a need in this Chamber for people who are capable of working together in a solution-oriented way, and I think it is time to make clear decisions in these last days. If I think of the Vaasa Central Hospital, too, when I worked there myself in my day, it is indeed the only genuine bilingual hospital that has worked very well with all the instruments. As we have already heard in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, there was no reasonable reason why there could not be and should be a large 24-hour emergency call at the central hospital in Vaasa. If, on the other hand, we think of the Central Hospital of Seinäjoki, and when we heard how few Swedish-speaking on-call patients go there on the other hand, we all understand that if the learned Swedish language is not constantly practiced and then a Swedish-speaking patient suddenly arrives at night, evening, morning, then the native speaker will probably not be able to serve in the way he is supposed to serve. In other words, in order to genuinely safeguard bilingualism, this emergency service on a 24-hour basis must be at the Vaasa Central Hospital.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u14	Madam President! It is true, as Mr Urpilainen pointed out, that the status of the hospital is relevant to the willingness of staff to recruit. At the moment Vaasa meets almost all of the features of the extensive emergency services hospital. There is a shortage of neurologists, and, at the moment, neurology is one of the major shortcomings in Finland. In other words, the status of the hospital as a whole could help with recruitment, but on the other hand, what are the conditions of the local hospital and bilingualism for this to be successful? It can then be examined whether the right solutions were taken in the definition of the Health Care Act, in the division of hospitals into two categories, in large-scale emergency hospitals and then in hospitals that can choose the scope of 24-hour emergency services. Vaasa meets the criteria of the hospital for extensive emergency services.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u15	Madam President! The Finns also support the inclusion of Vaasa on the list of extensive emergency services, and here I would also like to correct the mistake that Ilkka and Pohjanen, among others, reported that I would have voted against the citizens' initiative in committee. I have not voted in favour of the citizens' initiative. I also think it is very important that we talk about patient safety, and the Hospital District of Vaasa shines with that patient safety. The patient safety data sheet will be published there, for example, and the 2017 newsletter, which I have read here, is absolutely wonderful to read. I also attach great importance to the fact that when we talk about caring for a person — and now I say the nurse’s point of view — the mother tongue of the heart is the mother tongue that is the best and most important of all, and it lasts the person’s whole life. In other words, in the mother tongue of the heart, treatment should be provided, and it also avoids these injuries and patient defects. The nurse and the doctor need to understand each other, and this is one good criterion why this should be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u16	Mr President! Excellent speeches have been made here. Special thanks to Mrs Saarakkala: absolutely excellent. It is also a central hospital on the export coast. Industry invests heavily there. I do not understand the idea that we should ban the optimal development of the hospital — we must ban the optimal development of the hospital — as part of an ecosystem that brings euros to Finland every day through exports. Let us deal with this tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u17	Madam President! 67,000 medborgare har skrivit under det ox medborgariativet och ännu fler människor än så önskar att Vasa centralsjuchus skulle få fulljoursstatus. Grundlagsutskottet har sagt sin åsikt i frågan, Presidenten har sagt, de flesta sakunniga har sagt det. Jag citerar vad Presidenten rain i sitt utlåtande i december 2016:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u18	Mr President! Thank you very much for your excellent contributions. It seems that there is now a considerable amount of support in this Chamber for providing the Vaasa Central Hospital with that extensive emergency support. It would now also be an indication that, thanks to the citizens' initiative, which has many, many, many of the deputies involved in collecting these names across party boundaries, across municipal borders, across language borders, citizens will see that Parliament can add one word to one section. One word is at stake. It does not require any further action or further preparation. So many experts have already been heard, so much we already know that this is really a simple thing to do, as long as that political will is found. And now it seems to me that tomorrow that political will will will be found and widely.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u19	Madam President! The Christian Democrats support this citizens' initiative to maintain the 24-hour emergency service in Vaasa, and one can say that tomorrow we will have the opportunity to show in this Chamber that we can really make this important change. Here, too, I would like to thank Mr Henriksson for the work he has already done through his own legislative initiative, which was also here across party borders and, exceptionally, across opposition and government borders, and in this way, now that this citizens' initiative has been brought in at the right time, we will be able to put this right. All in all, this concentration regulation, which is actually behind these problems, shows exactly what was so weak in the social reform, that is, that we do not understand the diversity of regions, but try to impose the same model on everyone. In that sense, it is now a good opportunity to be able to dismantle this follow-up to the concentration regulation and indeed to take account of people's needs in that area. Here, Mr Strand also highlighted the needs of the business community. We need this 24-hour emergency service in Vaasa, and it is indeed a pleasure to be here as party chairman to support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u20	Mr President! There are therefore two issues here: one is the citizens' initiative and the other is the corresponding legislative amendment and the law. Personally, I am certainly in favour of extensive emergency services at Vaasa Hospital, but I would like the people who have spoken here to take a stand on the administrative issue of the adoption of this citizens' initiative without a corresponding legislative amendment, and that is what I referred to in my speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u21	Mr President! I will return to these linguistic rights and their importance, particularly in health care. In health care, if any, this linguistic question is at its greatest. When a person is sick or has more years and is part of a series of elderly people and needs health care, the worst is if he cannot function in his own mother tongue. It is also known from bilingualism that when more years come, then, in many cases, as 90 approaches, this bilingualism begins to deteriorate and goes back to its own language as a child, its mother tongue, and that is why this is really very important. I fully understand this initiative and I would like to strongly support it explicitly from outside the constituency of Vaasa. We too must have the heart to look a little past the questions of our own constituencies, and that is why I hope that this will be adopted, and that is why we have officials and, ultimately, institutions to ensure that the right decisions are taken here. And when this is here, it's up to you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u22	Mr President! Representative Talja mentioned that there would be a shortage of neurologists in the direction of Vaasa — well, there is, by the way, there is a shortage of neurologists in the whole of Finland, as well as psychiatrists and general medical specialists as well as some surgeons — but if this is now considered to be the reason why not give full emergency services to Vaasa, I just ask you if you really think that Seinäjoki will have Swedish-speaking psychiatrists and that Swedish-speaking neurologists will be more easily available there than Vaasan. Certainly not, because the coast of Ostrobothnia is 51 per cent Swedish-speaking people who speak Swedish as their mother tongue live there. 46 per cent are in Finnish and the rest are in other languages, and here is the big thing why we need 24-hour emergency services where our second domestic language is spoken as a majority language. This just is simply like mathematics too.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u23	Mr President! Thank you very much for your excellent contributions here, who are in favour of adding Vaasa to the list of hospitals for a wide 24-hour emergency call. I would have said to Mr Puska that we have now received statements on this new... — yesterday, for example, a statement was received from the Ministry of Finance on just what effect this amendment will have, and the Ministry of Finance in its own opinion said that there would be no significant financial impact, and the price of such a new speciality would be between 2000 and 500000 per year, but on the other hand, Seinäjoki would save 250,000 per year in investing in these languages alone, so that there would be no major impact.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u24	Mr President! It may be that this issue became not only a question of justice, but also an issue of authority at some point, but that stage is now over. Now this issue is a matter of physical and mental separation from social reform and can be dealt with as a case of its own. The hot air has been released long ago, and now focussing on this case, Vaasa, and it can be resolved now. In fact, in the RKP’s protest the word “Vaasa” is six letters in the Finnish Health Service Act50§. This is not rocket science, it is acceptable in this form tomorrow, so we should not postpone this now. The better welsh is sometimes a better solution, and that solution will be taken in the right direction tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u25	Mr President! The cost of maintaining one on-call tyre is approximately EUR 600000 according to various studies. I would have commented on the fact that it was mentioned here that there is a developing province of solvency. The starting point of our social and health care reform was to guarantee equal conditions everywhere in Finland, the ability of the province to pay for equal services in the region. I do not think it is possible to use the argument that one province has the capacity to pay when, in fact, we should compensate for this ability to pay by the State. That is why the reform of social welfare and health care started that at the time this basic princely wing, which is here, should be the kind of thing that we are talking about similarity.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u26	Mr President! When you have been involved in that war process as a representative of the then government parties, you can only recall how efforts were being made to push forward the biggest administrative reform in the history of Finland, when there were a few days of time and constitutional problems piled up. They said we could do it. I told you, I don't think it's gonna work. It is now said that it will not be possible to change this one piece of legislation, which has therefore been drafted in a rather brilliant technical form. I have never seen such a clear citizens' initiative. As a result of the citizens' initiative adopted here in the previous period, we have a change in the law on marriage, which was also drafted in the form of a law, but which at least had some technical problems. That too eventually went to the finish line, which, in itself, was what I was opposed to at that time. This is in response to Mr Buska. This has been drafted in the form of a legislative amendment. This is clear and simple. There is no point in having this academic debate about whether there is a problem with further preparation or otherwise. It's an academic conversation. It belongs to other arenas.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u27	Mr President! In my earlier speech, I referred to the statement by the President of the Republic. I take it that he meant that linguistic rights should not only be realised on paper but that linguistic rights should actually be realised in practice. Representative Heinäluoma spoke well about how important it is that when a person is sick and especially when he gets older, he becomes understood in his native language. I can say that I have been working in this work for eight years now, and mostly I have spoken in another Finnish, which means that Swedish is my native language, and in a way, Finnish is my second language. If I spend two weeks abroad and use a lot of English, I find that my Finnish skills are rusty. How can you be in Seinäjoki when very rarely Swedish-speaking patients are there and doctors and medical staff do not get to maintain the language as much as they should so that they can communicate with sick patients who come from the coast, including the Närpiö region, how do we know that there is a very difficult dialect, which I do not always understand? All the arguments are on this side, so let's get this over with tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u28	Madam Speaker! As representatives of Wall and Saarakkala have just said, this is easy. Vaasa Central Hospital meets all the requirements of extensive emergency services, it has been established, and according to the Constitutional Committee, linguistic services are best served if Vaasa receives extensive emergency services. We all know in this Chamber that Vaasa is the only viable solution if we want to safeguard linguistic rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u29	Mr President! It is precisely so that linguistic rights are fundamental rights. Mr Talja, the Constitutional Committee is very clear about the fact that the best way to implement linguistic rights is to give the Vaasa Central Hospital a wide range of emergency services. You can't get over it. You can't get around it. It is so clearly said so many times that it should be equally clear to everyone. Then there is the difference between the fact that of course Ostrobothnia is a strong region and, of course, as a prime minister, we are proud that we have a strong business life and so on. And of course it is also the case that the fact that there is a large number of emergency services in the hospital also means that it encourages people to move to Ostrobothnia and the Vaasa region and why not also to the region of Pietarsaari. So I would also like to thank Mrs Saarakkala for her very good speech. I think you raised the important issue of how simple and clear it is now to take that decision and adopt this citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u30	Mr President! I myself have been able to visit the Hospital District of Vaasa, and it was an educational experience. They do a very good job there, don't they? Patient safety is one of the best in our country. To the extent that I have been following this debate over the years, I think that the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is very logical. As a pragmatist, I must say that giving the Hospital District of Vaasa a large-scale standby status would be a sensible thing to do. It would not be out of the region of South Ostrobothnia, in the case of Seinäjoki, because the solution would be that both regions would have access to it. When I have been quite familiar with this matter, this option, in terms of cost, to maintain this extensive emergency service in the Hospital District of Vaasa, would make sense if we were to talk about the cost of a few hundred thousand, practically full-time neurology services at this point. But it is no longer a matter of a few hundred thousand in cost for the Swedish-speaking emergency services to Seinäjoki. In this way, I personally agree with the SDP that this is a very smart thing and that the solution is that this citizens' initiative will be adopted tomorrow when it is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u31	Irade fru talman! Frågan om fulljour i Vasa är oerhört viktig och den Engagerar. Just därför är frågan fortfarande kvar i riksdage trots attåren har gått. Below is a som tyckt att etta är oerhört viktigt har inte gett upp. Medborgarinitiativet samlade nödvändiga 50000 namn på rekordsnabb tid. Det visr hur mycket den kor frågan berör, inte enbart i Österbotten, utan också i många andra delar av landet, inclusive mitt eget landskap, Åland. När man är sjuk och svag är behovet av service på sitt eget modersmål extra stort. Att Vasa inte skulle få ha omfattande jour skulle vara oerhört anmärkningsvärt och vara en nedgradering av den Svenskspråkiga servicen i landet. Man måste naturligtvis säkerstä att under 85000 Svenskspråkiga i tvåspråkiga Österbotten också har till en fungerande jour på sitt eget modersmål. Att ätta upp scyltar på svenska gör nämligen inte automatiskt att Seinäjoki sjukhus fungerar på svenska. Det logiska skulle därför — fortsättningsvis — reserve att både Seinäjoki och Vasa skulle får ordna omfattande jour. Det är är ologiskt att etta skulle rett nollsummespel där man ställer dessa två orter mot varandra. Man har nämligen tidigare sagt från social- och älsovårdsministeries sida att en så kallad 12+1-modell inte skulle bli nämnkärt dyrare att ordna. Det är den lösningen man nu bör gå in för. Det är det logiska att göra. Det handlar om att ätta in ett enda ord, Vasa, i lagen. Det har vi nu chans att göra, och vi ska ta den chansen, för det finns ingen anledning att kanta. Irade the Talman! Tack till ledamot Veronica Rehn-Kivi som drivit den ox frågan i social- och älsovårdsutskottet, tillsammans med många andra både inom och utanför utskottet, och som fish saken till omröstning i Morse i utskottet. Rösterna föll 9-8. En omröstning i salen i morgon kan nu avgöra den ox saken där Vasas fulljour kan tryggas. Ettersom det rauh framför allt inte handlar om pengar handlar det uteslutande om politisk grain. Av den anledningen är det nu dags att sköta och lösa den ruus frågan aur och nu, inte att vänta till effecter liet. Att Vasa ska ha fulljour brode vara en självklarhet för att på bästa sätt garantera de Svenskspråkiga österbottningarnas grundlagsenliga ragtigheter, i enlighet med de skrivningar som också grundlagsutskottet tags in i sina utlåtanden. Irade the Talman! Åland påverkas inte dir. av jourbeslutt, men nog ind. På Åland har vi följt frågan activt effectsom det är en principiell fråga som på sikt kunde riskera att påverka svenska språkets ställning i landet. Därför måste man slå vakt om de i practiceken fungerande Svenskspråkiga strukturerna och domänerna i landet. För för att det officiella Finland ska kunna fungera på två språk måste det finnas fungerande Svensk- och tvåspråkiga strukturer också i practicekken. Av den raus anledningen är det av helt avgörande vikt, inte bara för Vasa utan för hela tvåspråkiga Finland, att Vasa också i framtiden får ordna omfattande jour. Låt oss ordna den bull saken ox nu i omröstningen i morgon.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u32	Madam President! Once again, the people have used the most powerful weapon they can use to bring matters here to the House, that is, the citizens' initiative. This citizens' initiative collected 67,000 signatures related to the maintenance of the emergency services at Vaasa Hospital. This citizens' initiative proposes to amend Article 50 of the Health Care Act by adding the Hospital District of Vaasa to the list of comprehensive 24-hour emergency services and removing the obligation for the Hospital District of South Ostrobothnia to organise emergency services in Finnish and Swedish in such a way that the patient receives the services in the language of his choice. The initiative considers that the Hospital District of Vaasa fulfils the criteria for organising a comprehensive round-the-clock emergency service. The People's Party supports this citizens' initiative, and we also support Veronica Rehn-Kive's protest. I am a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and I strongly support these speeches on behalf of the citizens' initiative here in Parliament today. At the same time, I would like to correct the misinformation in the press, including that of Ilkka and the Ostrobothnian, that I have voted against this citizens' initiative. That is not what I have done, that information is incorrect and I have tried to correct it. Madam President! After all, this citizens' initiative was dealt with in the context of the social welfare reform in the big package, and now that it fell, this good and important citizens' initiative was left in the air. It is a great thing that Mrs Veronica Rehn-Kivi raised this in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and vigorously pushed it so far that we finally got it here, we can talk and vote on it. I do have that feeling, and I believe that when you know how important it is to people in their mother tongue, tomorrow you will hear the voice of the heart, and I believe that this debate on the citizens' initiative will have a positive decision tomorrow. I hope that Members will vote in favour of this initiative. It is very important that when a patient meets a nurse, nurse or doctor, that common language is understandable. It's the first step in patient safety. It's the most important thing for that common communication. I think it is important that this is the case for both young people and older people, especially older people, when it is the first mother tongue and everything else is forgotten. This is the truth, and it is very important that it is respected. The Hospital District of Vaasa shines with good meters in relation to patient safety, and that is a great thing. I have made a lot of noise here in Parliament about the patient safety theme, and it is significant that we have HaiPro systems in Finland, where patient damage is recorded, analysed and learned from them and then anticipated. Take the example of flight safety, that people receive good care. Not only is it humanly right but it is also economically sustainable. Every patient’s injury is too much, every patient’s injury is very expensive for society, not to mention the human suffering. So we have such an area that invests in patient safety, where a separate patient safety data sheet will appear two to four times a year — now I am correcting my recent statement from that place: it is already the 2018 newsletter that I have read last — and it is a great thing that in a way things will also be made transparent, because in very many hospital districts we do not know the amount of patient damage and we do not know what kind of patient damage is happening there. It's about people investing in things and they think it's important. In 2018, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs pointed out that the reports presented in the draft report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health do not properly reflect the adequacy of the measures needed to implement linguistic rights, nor does it provide for a statutory obligation previously regarded by the committee as a matter of order to ensure that Swedish-speaking people moving from Vaasa to Seinäjoki can in practice use their own mother tongue with sufficient precision. This position of the Constitutional Committee is very binding. I also recall that our President of the Republic, Sauli Niinistö, also spoke and expressed his concern about the constitutional need to obtain services in its native language. These are very important things to remember. As a nurse, it is very important that we receive treatment in Finnish and Swedish. We all do not know that Swedish, but nevertheless this is a very important theme. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u33	Irade fru talman! Precis som många av mina kolleger har sagt är det ox synnerligen klart och entydigt. Förändringen berör en paragraf i älsovårdslagen, ett moment: ett ord stätts till och en mening stryks. Förarbetena till lagen är redan gjorda, under sakunniga är hörda, grundlagsutskottet har uttaat sig och till och med Presidenten har uttaat sig. Det är mycket angels att läja att stöda denna paragrafändring i morgon.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u34	Madam President! Many good speeches have been made here on behalf of the 24-hour comprehensive emergency services at Vaasa Central Hospital. This citizens' initiative is certainly to be welcomed. All Christian Democrats are in favour of it, and already during this period, when the fate of Vaasa Central Hospital has been at hand, we have been heavily on a 24-hour basis to support, simply and simply because it is the only sensible solution. Vaasa Central Hospital has worked very well and, as I said before, it is the only truly bilingual hospital and, as has been said, there is no economic justification, either, according to experts, to move a large number of emergency services out of it. In fact, in addition to those previous speeches, I would like to focus on patient-doctor communication, because patient safety is one of the key issues. We know that there are a lot of elderly people living in Ostrobothnia, including Närpiö, and if we are thinking of on-call time and morning or evening or early morning emergency services, it is very likely that there will be, at least several times, elderly people there. There really are many elderly people in that area who really do not know the Finnish language well, and at least in situations where you need to tell them those feelings, symptoms and events, you need that language of your own, and they have it in Swedish. So it is very important for patients to be able to use the language in which they can genuinely tell us what has happened and what is the situation when speech is left. But then I would also bring up the health care staff. I would like to highlight the situation of the nurses and bring up the situation of the doctors. If you think you're going to be a patient and you speak Swedish, you should also know your doctor well enough not only to speak Swedish himself but also to understand the patient's Swedish language. The doctor should be able to ask the right questions and understand the answers, and in addition to that, especially in the case of on-call situations, it should also be possible to write those things quickly; to make referrals, analyses, statements or summaries — all of this in Swedish, and also in a way that the patient understands enough. I used to work at the central hospital in Vaasa, and I remember the first weeks when I had to use it in Swedish, even though I had worked in Sweden before, but that's how it goes. If I think that such a patient comes to the on-call time perhaps once every three months or once every four months, then the language skills will certainly not be good enough unless the language is constantly used. Therefore, I am thinking of the staff and doctors at Seinäjoki Central Hospital: if they do not continue to use the Swedish language, it is certainly the service that the Constitutional Committee has also intended, it cannot be provided there.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u35	Ärade talman, Mr President! Det är inte fel om du vill ha någon sådan läkare eller sjuksköterska som kan prata med dig om du är sjuk. Och det är just så att om du måste snacka svenska i Österbotten och om sjuksköterskan eller läkaren kan inte det wastebra, det funkar inte. Och som ni kan höra, jag har lärt mig svenska i Skolan, men denna svenska vad jag pratar, den racker inte i sjukhuset.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u36	Mr President! Some words more as a Member of Parliament for this debate. When I have learned about that situation in the Hospital District of Vaasa, I have come to the conclusion that, in this case, the best way to ensure the practical implementation of linguistic rights is by giving the Central Hospital of Seinäjoki and the Central Hospital of Vaasa the right to act as a hospital for extensive emergency services. In fact, the question is quite simple: if there was also a political commitment for both of us to give this round-the-clock comprehensive emergency service, why not do so? In this regard, it is very strange that, in fact, the Hospital District of South Ostrobothnia has had to take very costly action following this decision of the past, which amended the Health Care Act in order to include the fact that there were only 12 round-the-clock emergency services. Now that we are in a situation where the Hospital District of South Ostrobothnia has been quite effective in organising training in Swedish for its own staff and has tried to ensure that these 24-hour emergency services can also be provided in Swedish, it has not become cheap fun. In this regard, the pragmatic question is: would it, however, where there is already a very large number of emergency services, be cheaper for society to have the end, a very large number of emergency services so that in the area where there is already a bilingual central hospital but not as large as these 12, this could be done? According to the information I have received, this is largely a question of securing this 24-hour neurology emergency service, and then the money will move in about a few hundred thousand euros. In this regard, I personally feel that it would be reasonable to allow the Vaasa Central Hospital to operate such a single large-scale emergency unit. This would be the most cost-effective option in this situation, and the SDP has come to the conclusion a long time ago that it would be worthwhile to do so, in practice, both in order to safeguard linguistic rights and in accordance with the will expressed in the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, it would now be appropriate to come to the conclusion that this change is being made. This is a very small change to that list. Much more unprepared matters have been dealt with in this House of Parliament,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u37	Värderade Talman! Jag skulle grain tacka mina kolleger här i dag som oavsett region eller modersmål eller parti har förstått att det ox förrutom patientsäkerhet och rättvisa också handlar om grundläggande rättigheter, det vill säga språkliga rättigheter som är köpplade till detta med att få vård på sitt eget modersmål. Speciellt i ett senare skde av livet, när kanske också de bästa språkkunskaperna börjar tryta, finns bara modersmålet kvar, och då är det viktigt att man får vården på det egna språket.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u38	Mr President! As I have said, I find the arguments for Vaasa's extensive emergency services very strong. I have been concerned about this legal process and administration which, with these citizens' initiatives, is probably a little unclear to many, and I have now tried to find out what this is all about. Obviously I was right that the citizens' initiative and the law should be decided separately tomorrow, and, as far as I understand it, this citizens' initiative will be formally rejected, but then the committee's report and the related law will be voted on separately. I hope that Parliament's secretariat will clarify this point again, because, at least for me, it will clearly change this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u39	Madam President! Just a few words about this self-imposed citizens' initiative. I agree with what has been said here about the fact that this citizens' initiative has been very skilful and well done. When there is a debate on citizens' initiatives, there are sometimes initiatives that do not necessarily have the legal technicality right and right, but nevertheless I think it is important that we deal with all those citizens' initiatives, and we cannot expect or demand that citizens be able to take such an impeccable legal initiative that there are no mistakes. This initiative is now truly exemplary. This is good and, as I see it, it is to be carried through, and I hope that people will continue to take citizens' initiatives, despite the fact that it is not always that way. This is good, and the Finns of Peru support the citizens' initiative and indeed the protest made by Mr Rehn-Kive, and we will vote in favour of it. One patient injury is too much, and we think it is very important that every life in Finland should be taken care of and stand up for people because it is humanly right and sustainable. It also provides financial savings.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u40	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here today and I would, in fact, only like to talk about this quality of the citizens' initiative or about the various models. There are two kinds. There are those who simply entrust themselves with the task of preparing legislation, but this is one where the law can be adopted as it stands and then comes into force, and in that sense it is easy to make this decision. When, for example, there is only a text or there is a desire for major changes, that is different. It will then be necessary to go ahead and prepare the legislation from the beginning, even if Parliament accepts that idea, but it is now quite possible to adopt the law and make that change in this house. You don't have to wait for another preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u41	Mr President! I still want to correct that thought that might have been created here. We now have a draft report by the majority of the committee, which was produced by a vote of 9 to 8 today, on the practical rejection of the legislative initiative by Parliament and on the practical resolution of this matter during the next parliamentary term, under the leadership of the next government. I understand that the draft report has been written in such a way that it has a strong tone that this matter should be dealt with, but it would then be dealt with in the next parliamentary term when it comes to the whole of social and health care. Another option in the committee was that the inclusion of the Hospital District of Vaasa as the 13th large-scale emergency hospital in the list mentioned in Article 50 of the Health Care Act would have been directly accepted. This solution was therefore also on the table in committee. We have had a great deal of discussion on this issue during this parliamentary term, and we specifically had the articles in the committee which did not do so, but it was criticised by the Constitutional Committee for the various years in which it was wondered that there was no way in which the Hospital District of Vaasa could now be included in that list. I personally feel that once we have secured the extensive emergency services of the Central Hospital of South Ostrobothnia and we also want to secure a large number of emergency services in the Hospital District of Vaasa, I see no obstacle to this decision being taken. In fact, the hospital network is a political decision in Finland, and the fact that, as the only bilingual hospital in Vaasa, instead of the hospital district, someone else would take care of the full-time fulfilment of the on-call obligation, the Finnish-language hospital, does not make much sense to me. After several hundred hours of this reform of social welfare and health care, I would like to say once again that tomorrow we will have the opportunity to put this matter right by voting differently. This is the basis of the committee and, as I said, it would now propose this wreck, and that will be decided tomorrow. But a proposal has also been made in this Chamber, which my own political movement, the SDP, has supported, and we in the committee and this evening have proposed that this matter should be put right tomorrow. Then, after the first reading, the draft articles will be tabled tomorrow at the hearing, and tomorrow it will be decided whether to act in this way or whether to act in the way proposed by the majority of the committee that the bill should be rejected at this stage. These two options will be decided tomorrow, and it will be as simple as that, i.e. make it a value choice on the hospital network. This same choice of values was also made in the Government's reform of social welfare and health care. All the other things that are happily discussed in this debate do not speak for themselves, but, in fact, it is a question of political choice. I myself have taken the view that this should now be done immediately tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u42	Mr President! Just as has been said here, the citizens' initiative includes this amendment in section 50, and when I have protested against it, which has received support, I suggested at the beginning of this debate that this be taken as the basis for the debate, and this bill is also included in it. In other words, this is quite clear: while the citizens' initiative is being adopted, this piece of legislation will also be changed. I hope that also the representative will: The bush could be behind this when we vote on it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u43	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 42/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Chairman of the Committee, Mr Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u44	Mr President! Indeed, this morning we have done a great deal of work in committee. Three more reports were received here in the Chamber. First of all, I would like to thank Parliament's administration for the fact that it was possible to make these arrangements, but also the President, who is on the hook today, for still completing these important issues. It is therefore a matter of amendments to the Child Welfare Act, and there is serious concern that children in child protection, especially children living in institutions, have been in a very vulnerable situation. In this respect, the legislation on self-determination has been prepared by dismantling and introducing new provisions on the protection of children and bringing them to Parliament separately. This house has strong support for putting these details in order on the Child Welfare side. This has been a social law in the past. In that respect, work has also been done in the Ministry to bring this whole package of child protection here. There was not much time to prepare, because the Constitutional Committee issued its own opinion on this only recently. On that basis, then, we have received some changes to bring this whole into the Chamber. This is a very large proposal, and I will go through a few key changes to form the basis for this debate. Key amendments to the Child Welfare Act are now being made, in particular, how we confirm the right of a child who is placed outside the home to good treatment, care and education, which is actually the right of all children. This is a long-standing debate on the way in which new provisions are needed to ensure that this right is well treated. The changes thus clarify the difference between the restrictions on education and the fundamental rights of the child and also clarify the conditions for the use of these restrictions. In this respect, the grey zones which may have existed have now been firmly placed in books and covers and have also been subject to these restrictions and to the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In this respect, the fundamental rights of the child have also been reviewed from the point of view of child protection. These changes clarify this current situation, and one can say that these changes alone will improve the state of child protection in this country, but it is also important that the changes specify the general conditions for the use of restrictions, guide the use of restrictions in this practical work and also increase the ex post evaluation of the use of restrictions. These are the issues that have been raised in connection with the Ombudsman's inquiries as such serious deficiencies in society. In this respect, the committee will specify precisely these general conditions for the use of restrictions in the daily lives of children in child protection. As a new restriction measure, it is possible to remove tobacco and nicotine products from the child. In addition, the new provision on the return to the institution of a child who has left the institution without authorisation or who has not returned to it clarifies this unregulated state of affairs. This is another point that the committee has carefully considered, and it may be that in the future the issues relating to these transports in particular will have to be clarified during the next term of government. The right of children in foster care to early childhood education, basic education and other post-primary education are also strengthened by this law. The committee therefore proposes to adopt a statement that the rights of children in foster care for balanced development and well-being and the use of the restrictions contained in the Child Welfare Act will be assessed and clarified as part of the preparation of the legislation on customer and patient self-determination. The question is, therefore, that we have also had to consider the opinion of the Constitutional Committee after having received the impetus of the Constitution, as it were, to determine the way in which this type of normal education is ensured for children in the field of child protection. The question is, of course, that every child in this country is entitled to good treatment, care and education and that everyday life, such as in institutions, cannot be subject to these restrictions. In this respect, the Ombudsman's work has been good and substantial, and in this respect we note that there are still matters here in general that may need to be clarified during the next term of government and clarified further in this respect when the legislation on self-determination is being prepared. Finally, Mr President, the committee approved this legislative initiative on the government's proposal to increase the age limit for child welfare from 21 to 25 years.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u45	Madam President! This proposal proposes to amend the Child Welfare Act to strengthen the child’s right to good treatment, care and education. It is very important that, at the end of the parliamentary term, we have received this government's proposal for the Child Welfare Act to be debated here. Every child has the right to good care and care, and society must make an effort to make these things come true. Everyone will be taken care of and, in fact, after Mr Kiuru's speech, one can only say that resources will also be allocated to child protection there. It is very important and good that this law also highlights the number of staff, skills and training, and it must be ensured that there are no shortcomings which would then cause problems in the practical field. It is important that there are enough nurses, there are plenty of foster care places and there are skilled, skilled staff, because that is how our young people and children get a strong foothold in the future and are also well placed in society.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u46	Mr President! As such, when talking about the rights of the child and talking about the Child Welfare Act, it is good that certain issues are taken into account and dealt with. But I am speaking here about children who are very close to being of age but are not yet of age, which means that they are clearly children, between the ages of 15 and 16 and are up and down. In child welfare, it would be good to take into account that it is not enough to talk about good education, but also the fact that if something has gone wrong and, for example, if a youth has been addicted to drugs or alcohol or games, then these issues should be dealt with through the laws that apply to them. It is extremely important that any young person who is addicted, alcoholic, or gambling addict should be treated. They must be given treatment because it is a subjective right in this country for all these people. Unfortunately, these people do not know their rights, which is the duty of the adult who works for children and young people. In addition, the Child Welfare Act works a little backwards in that situation if the child is in so-called voluntary custody, i.e. if the child or young person has been asked for help at home and the child or young person has been taken into care. If the same problems persist at the place of custody, for example, a child does not go to school, or a child cuts or drinks — exactly the same thing that is there at home — and then perhaps even worse because a child becomes depressed because one cannot be in a familiar and safe and good home when a child is asked for help at home, so when the child is in this voluntary care, it seems completely impossible to return him home in this country. Even if parents would like to have a child home, the child himself would like to go home, the child himself promises that I can go to school now, not once taken into care, they will be kept there until they are at least 18 years old. What is extremely good in this law is that aftercare is extended to 25 years of age. Children who, for one reason or another, are transferred to institutional or home care experience major trauma when separated from their parents. Of course, in some cases, it is definitely better for the child to be away from home, better to be in a safe environment, and we should ensure that that environment remains safe. But when we talk about these addictions, that's another thing. I warn you, really, about this section, which is that a young person can be taken out of tobacco and tobacco products. If a young person has been addicted to tobacco — we know that it is unhealthy, completely unhealthy — then I can assure you that it will only make the situation worse if tobacco products are taken away from a 16 to 17-year-old if he is a smoker if he has been smoking. It would be wise to use reason here and see where you can smoke and where you can't smoke, but the fact that addiction is being forced to stop will not work. It does not hear, dear friends, dear colleagues, even in this house. It was tried, tried hard, for more than six months, driven straight, but it just didn't work because addictions aren't treated that way. Addiction can be treated by offering nicotine products to a child in custody, by offering substitutes to get out of tobacco, but that does not mean that tobacco products are collected and then said that you are without. I admit that this sounds wild because tobacco is unhealthy, but I can tell you that salami and liquorice are also unhealthy — new studies tell you that, you can also look at them. I would like to see some real sense being used in these, especially in the case of young adults, in the case of young teenagers, through discussion and, above all, through a different kind of therapy, to get inside the head and reach a common conclusion that would then give the young person a good opportunity to live in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u47	Madam President! The right to good care, care, care is the right of all children. The right is also to good education, and in this respect the role of the social worker of the municipality of residence is at the heart of these objectives. He's got last-hand control. He or she must ensure that the care provided meets the objectives set jointly that meet the needs of the child. Mr Tolppanen raised the issue of how to deal with problems arising with children's development. We discussed this very much in committee on how to manage the interface with other legislation. Then we will have health legislation, we will have other legislation on the use of drugs, and so on, for which we will then have to resolve the fact that no one will be left without treatment. The Child Welfare Institute is not just a place to invest; it must provide the conditions for future good adulthood.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u48	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 43/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The general debate will be opened by the chairman of the committee, Krista Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u49	Mr President! Today we are debating the amendment of the Act on Keva. We finished this this morning too, and I can say that this is a very expected legislative change. A provision would therefore be included in the Act that Keva would be obliged to carry out a risk assessment as part of strategic decision-making and risk management. This proposal would also add a provision on the tasks related to the reduction of the disability risk in Keva. Activities related to the reduction of the risk of disability would also be entrusted to Keva in the case of state employers. Mr President! Firstly, with regard to the risk management of Keva, there is a welcome change. The committee considers this proposed amendment to Article 25a to be appropriate. According to the proposal, a pension institution must regularly prepare and update a risk assessment as part of the strategic planning and guidance of its activities in the event of a material change of risks. It should also be noted that, due to the financing model, Keva does not have a solvency requirement unlike private pension insurance companies and is therefore not required to make a solvency assessment. As regards the operation of Keva and risk management, the Committee therefore notes that these are acceptable changes. Another major change is that of disability risk reduction activities. The purpose of Keva’s statutory tasks is to add tasks related to the reduction of the risk of disability. According to the explanatory memorandum, the amendment is not intended to change Keva's current services and does not increase the cost of managing pension provision for Keva's member communities and the Evangelical Lutheran Church. The Committee notes that this maintenance of working capacity and the prevention of the risk of disability are important factors for the sustainability of the financing of pension provision. The Committee would point out that Mr Kevan should submit an annual report to the Ministry of Finance on the activities related to reducing the risk of disability and improving occupational capacity management. Mr President! The committee also drew attention to the need to develop future regulation. In the government proposal, the Committee on Economic Affairs has drawn attention to this environment and also to the fact that Keva's supervision is divided between the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Supervisory Authority. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has considered it important to prepare legislation to organise supervision by concentrating these overall responsibilities and powers on financial supervision in order to ensure the completeness and effectiveness of supervision. In addition, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has drawn attention to a number of shortcomings in the regulation of Keva's administration and tasks and to the regulatory needs highlighted by the Authority. The committee has also noted that the supervisory functions of the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Supervisory Authority in relation to Keva are not, of course, changed in this context, but there has also been a great deal of discussion. On the basis of this opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy notes that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy needs to be carefully assessed in the preparation of the Government's legislative proposal, not in the context of this proposal. The committee also points out that this draft law on the maintenance of Keva's working capacity and the prevention of the risk of disability gives Keva the same opportunity as private pension insurance companies already have. The committee notes the need to harmonise the regulation of this activity in the above-mentioned studies. Our report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u50	Mr President! The chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health very rightly opened up the content of this government proposal, which has also been unanimously discussed by the committee. One can only say, in fact, that, as we have discussed here along the way whether this is now extending the activities of Keva to a whole new area, I think that the chairman of the committee said quite well that this is where the most important thing is to be done in the Keva Act on the reduction of the risk of disability which it has already done today. On the way, we have also discussed whether we should have looked forward to further studies on the possible integration of pension systems before we start making these changes. But I am very pleased that the committee was able to deal with this and to make these corrections at the end of the line — you can say that at the very end of the line. After all, we have just completed the work of a working group on reforming pension systems, and what is perhaps the most important thing to note was the unanimous work. And it will provide the basis for further legislative work, preparatory work, in the next parliamentary term. If this is a political decision, it certainly would require government programme records, but I would like to stress that this work will certainly take years, and before we can combine these pension systems, if that is the case, the end result will then be visible after a long transition period, and it is therefore important that we do not leave these small but necessary corrections unnecessarily waiting for uncertainty and the future. Finally, I would just like to express my thanks for the great fact that this has now been brought here and that it is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u51	Mr President! Very briefly, I am very pleased that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has dealt with this matter on a very short time since the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy gave its unanimous opinion on the importance of this matter after a long period of preparation, and it has now been brought to the Chamber. The main elements of this amendment of the law have been well described here, and I think it is very valuable that we are completing an important reform involving, of course, this assessment of the risk of disability, the involvement of state workers in this system and, in the future, the strengthening of this supervision, and perhaps, then, in particular, bringing it into the framework of financial supervision. Significant legislative reform, and thank you to all those who have contributed to this proposal and its discussion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-14-ps-178.u52	Madam President! Action to reduce the risk of disability is extremely important. In Finland, health promotion activities are carried out in many localities. This is about this same activity. In the case of Keva alone, 40000 pensioners are entitled to an early disability pension. They have not been able to treat themselves, their own health, which they could have affected in such a way that they could normally, some of them, retire. The costs of paying disability pensions exceed EUR 400 million for Keva. For this reason, it is extremely important that, as private pension insurance companies invest significantly in this very cause-based prevention, it is also a legal opportunity for Keva to carry out this same activity. I personally think it is extremely important that in future, on the basis of this report, the pension insurance system should be examined in its entirety during the next parliamentary term and on the basis that all insurance activities are based on the same principles.
