ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 15 January 2019. In the debate, Ritva Elomaa, supported by Sami Savio, has been protesting against 1 and 2. a proposal for a statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u2	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the proposals for statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u3	The 3rd issue of the agenda is the joint topical debate on combating climate change and the global extinction wave of species, i.e. 3rd and 4th. the issue will be discussed together. The first five minutes of the debate will be used by Krista Mikkonen and Tytti Tuppurainen, the first signatories of the discussion initiatives behind the debate. Mr Kimmo Tiilikainen, Minister for Housing, Energy and the Environment, will speak for 5 minutes. Then, in the order I am considering, I will give you 1 or 2 minutes of answers. Answers are reserved by V-button. An hour and a half is set aside for the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u4	Mr President! Last Friday, the stairs of the Parliament House were filled with young people. They are calling for climate change to be stopped now. When asked why you are not at school, they replied: ‘If the decision-maker makes a serious climate change effort,we do not have a future,for example,to use the school. “ We are responsible for the future of these young people. The message of science from the International Climate Panel is clear. The increase in the average temperature of the earth must be stopped to 1.5 °C. It requires unprecedented and rapid action. We Finns emit much more climate emissions per capita than most people in the world or even in the European Union. If everyone lived like us, we'd need four worlds. Everyone understands that this cannot continue. We have a responsibility to act. Finland's current climate action is not enough to achieve the 1.5-degree target. We decision-makers must be able to change the structures of our society so that our lives will be carbon neutral as early as 2030. After that, more carbon must be removed from the atmosphere than we can get there. There are only three parliamentary terms until 2030. The next Parliament must already be able to make significant decisions. It will determine whether or not we can achieve this goal. We need to think bigger: instead of thinking about how to promote climate action within the current economic framework, we need to reverse our thinking: climate policy must set the frame for the economy. We need an ecological tax reform. The climate-friendly option must always be easier and cheaper. You have to pay for the emissions. The tax reforms that have been carried out so far have been tinkering. The next reform must be a billion-dollar reform. We need to think again: many solutions already exist. Incentives, support, standards, prohibitions and economic guidance are needed to put them in place. Our energy economy and our mobility must be transformed into zero emissions. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u7	Madam President! The loss of species wealth of earth’s animals, plants and other organisms is a cause for concern and grief. The loss of species has been worrying the scientific community for decades. The natural balance between the birth and loss of species has been shaken. Species disappear at a rate that compares with the great extinction waves of earth’s history that have taken place hundreds or tens of millions of years ago. According to the World Natural Foundation, more than half of the 4,000 species observed have disappeared in less than half a century. Two per cent of vertebrate species disappear each year, and for other species the development is unsustainable. According to the IPBES assessment report, an international nature panel of 130 countries is at risk of loss of more than 40% of biodiversity by 2050. Mr President! It is necessary to preserve species-riching. The interaction of species forms complex ecosystems. An individual species may be significant in the food of other species, in the control of the stock of other species or in other ways in the maintenance of balance. The loss of biodiversity will inevitably reduce human life opportunities. An example of this is the collapse of pollinating insect strains. The production of food crops requiring pollination threatens to become overwhelming. No human technology replaces the work that insects do. The loss of species weakens the prerequisites for both mitigating and adapting to climate change. In a species-rich environment there is more biomass to absorb atmospheric carbon dioxide, and there are more species that are more likely to survive global warming or changes in rainfall. The causes of the threatening extinction wave are obvious: it is because of human activity. As a result of human activity, the climate is changing faster than the ability of species to adapt to change, and alien species and invasive alien species transferred by humans are taking over from indigenous species. In addition, most of both land and sea areas are already fishing areas directly exploited by humans, land for logging, grazing or cultivation, or built environment. Mr President! The United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity, which set the objective of preserving diversity, was adopted in 1992 in Rio de Janeiro. The agreement has not halted the impending development, but some of its objectives are still in the process of being achieved. A UN report published last year allowed considerable progress to be recorded. Seven per cent of the world's maritime areas and 15 per cent of the land are protected. Action is needed globally and closely to save biodiversity. With the EU Presidency starting this year, Finland must put the implementation and follow-up of the UN Convention on Biological Diversity on the agenda. The EU must persuade the current leaders of the United States and Brazil, Trump and Bolsonaro, to abandon measures that threaten the protection programmes of these large countries. Here in Finland, President-in-Office, I propose three practical measures: national support for rural and agricultural farming must be directed towards grazing livestock on tree-based felling grounds, whose loss is a serious problem for biodiversity in Finland. This adds to the wealth of the species. The adequate funding and continuation of the Metso programme must be secured. Our late top ecology researcher, Academician Ilkka Hanski, should be applied to urban environment planning and construction while preserving species diversity. Mr President! We have a beautiful and rich world. The most beautiful in it are the creatures living in its soil and its waters. The extinction of the species makes the earth dreary and poorer. For many environmental problems, we have managed to find remedies at national and even global level. Finland’s inland waterways and European rivers have been cleaned, the ozone layer in the upper atmosphere is returning. As the species disappear, there will be no return. When a plant or animal species disappears, it will never be recovered — by any means, never.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u8	Mr President! I would like to thank the authors of the debate initiative, the signatories, for having the opportunity in this House to focus on these major issues: climate change and the loss of biodiversity. At the same time, I am pleased to be able to tell you first of all what the government has already done. But of course there's a lot of work to be done. During this parliamentary term, the Government has pursued a more ambitious climate policy than ever before in Finland: halves of imported oil until 2030, decarbonisation, uplifting of renewables to more than half of total energy consumption, carbon neutrality target for 2045. And these are not just objectives, but they are also, hopefully, legislative proposals adopted by the Parliament — concrete, necessary actions. Wood construction has been promoted, it is a carbon storage activity. In EU policy, we have raved Finland from such a poet to a pioneer, a courageous pioneer in climate policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u11	Thank you. — Then we go to 1 minute answers, which can be reserved with a V button. First of all, let us take the speakers. — Mr Mikkonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u12	Mr President! Indeed, combating climate change and taking care of diversity are common challenges for us. Minister Tiilikainen listed what this government has done. They are good deeds, but we know we need more. We all have to do better than that. Only then will we be able to ensure that this planet is viable in the future too — not just because of our youth, not just because of our children, but because of all of us, because the threats are so great and we know that when a certain limit is exceeded, the speed will accelerate in terms of both the loss of diversity and global warming. That's why if we wait too long, we won't be able to come back and fix it anymore.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u13	Mr President! This is a very good thing that Parliament is having these debates together, because, just as the Minister said, the loss of biodiversity is far too little consideration given to the importance of the problem that threatens our entire future together. These factors are in dynamic interaction, climate change and the loss of biodiversity, and actions are needed in both. I would now like to emphasise biodiversity in particular, because it also gives us a buffer to adapt to climate change when nature has the capacity to be flexible and dynamically changing, and that is very important. President! I would like to remind you that the programme for the protection of bogs must also be extended during the coming parliamentary term, and the Metso programme must also be extended during the coming parliamentary term. These are long-term issues, and we in Parliament must find a common vision of how these will be financed and how these limited resources will be invested. It's about this planet and its future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u14	Mr President! It is a good thing that this government has carried out the things that the climate law prepared and enacted by the previous government and parliament has required, but we have all known all along that it is not enough to control climate change by 2°C, let alone 1.5°C. It is excellent that eight parties agreed to tighten up the climate action. It makes it possible, although it does not yet guarantee that we are really carrying the straw that is due to Finland, to the 1.5 degree of mitigation of climate change. It should be borne in mind that climate change and the loss of biodiversity are linked together and that one of them is aggravated by the other. That is why, in addition to achieving zero-emission energy and transport, we must also, for example, deal with forests.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u15	Madam President! The recipe for combating climate change is ultimately quite simple. Emissions must be brought down, sinks must be raised and cash flows must be mobilised to support ecological reconstruction, away from fossils towards a climate-friendly economic system. No reduction in emissions will be enough if we do not at the same time strengthen our sinks, which means that Finland's forestry policy must strengthen sinks and not reduce them. Fortunately, we have huge forest reserves, so we have a chance of doing this. We also have a great potential for strengthening sinks in agriculture: it is also possible to turn arable land and farmland into a carbon sink instead of a source of emissions. Forests and landowners therefore play a key role and, with the right support and political decisions, they can become climate heroes. Mr President! Last Friday, a large group of young people gathered in front of Parliament to ask and demand that we save the climate. It was another reminder that in the future we will be judged according to how we managed to curb climate change.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u16	Madam President! According to Eurostat, Finland was the country that reduced the EU's most climate emissions in 2017. Finland’s net emissions have decreased by more than half since 1990, compared with an average EU reduction of only 26%. Our energy taxation must not be tightened, it undermines our competitiveness. For example, the technology industry accounts for more than half of Finland's exports. It employs over 300,000 people and makes investments of over EUR 5 billion annually in Finland. So we must not weaken our competitiveness and transfer our jobs to countries that are more polluting. It is an ecological act when we keep jobs in Finland and give our industry the opportunity to employ and work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u17	Irade the Talman! Minister Tiilikainen talked about emissions trading and it is one effective market-based way to help us in a situation where emissions are reduced. However, emissions trading is a rather limited instrument at the moment. In California and Quebec, it has been extended to cover a significantly larger proportion of emissions. Emissions trading is also problematic in that we may know what will happen with it until 2030, but then we will not, and that means that there is great uncertainty about investment. We know what our global remaining carbon budget is, it is about 500 gigatonnes. It can be assumed that Europe may account for about 50 of this. If emissions trading were to be based on this and if emissions trading were to be extended to all sectors, both predictability and the path that would actually take Europe to this 1.5-degree target would be achieved. I ask Minister Tiilikainen: would this be an appropriate opening for the Finnish Presidency of the European Union – a renewal of emissions trading based on the remaining carbon budget and a substantial expansion?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u18	Madam President! About a year ago, 15,000 Nobel Prizeists and bioscientists gave the earth another warning. The first warning was given 25 years ago. Tens of thousands of plant, animal and insect species are dying off the planet. If we were to spend as much as we Finns in the whole world, we would need two and a half of the world — this one would not suffice, we are so hard consumers and polluters of natural resources. So now we must ask ourselves a serious question: What are we going to do? Forests are the key to us. We should not only talk about the number of forests, about the quantity of wood, but also about the quality of wood. We have about 3% of forests in Southern Finland, so-called old forests that maintain biodiversity. It has already become clear that we are unable to comply with the commitments of the Nagoya Agreement, in which Finland is involved in promoting diversity. This is a serious matter. We need to think about what we are doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u19	Madam President! It is very important that we talk here about both diversity and climate change, as has been demonstrated in these good debates. In fact, as has been said, the loss of biodiversity is perhaps even a greater threat to human beings on earth than climate change. However, I would say that forest owners and farmers are already heroes of carbon sequestration and climate change, not just future heroes. It is with the help of Finnish forest owners that forest growth has grown by 50 per cent since 1970 to date. International engagement is an extremely important part of the fight against climate change, and I thank you Minister. A brick band for a very good job so far. Among other things, the addition of heating to emissions trading is an extremely important tool, and I would like to ask: Where are we with this? Can we soon see in the EU the day that heating has been included in the emissions trading scheme?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u20	Madam President! About 80% of greenhouse gas emissions that cause global warming come from the production and consumption of energy, including transport. A number of Finnish researchers recently suggested that all petrol and diesel-powered cars be banned within eight years. The proposal includes a ban on imports of internal combustion engines from 2025 and a total ban on sales from 2027. The proposal is considered entirely unrealistic by operators in the sector. The climate debate has become a station war between fossil fuels and the electrification of transport. As technology develops, not only electric cars but also biogas cars and hybrid cars will gain a larger market share in the Finnish passenger car market. In the future, propulsion can be based not only on biogas but also on hybrid technology or renewable diesel fuel. I ask the Minister: is it not too early to bury diesel engines?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u21	Mr President! In recent months, passenger transport has discussed climate change, including the climate report prepared by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. It was crystallized that car charges would be increased and internal combustion cars banned in the next few years. In climate change too, it is often a question of who pays and who benefits. Some kind of redistribution of money is on the way here, and it must be very precise, because if we go wrong, then the payer will be the current Finnish and winner of the internal combustion engine in the sparsely populated or smaller city, at least in the red-green model, who lives in a large city in the city with free public transport and who does not use the internal combustion engine, whether it is prohibited or not. So you have to be very precise — even though the climate is important and action needs to be done — who benefits, who pays, who is the winner, who is the loser. We don't need climate hysteria. We need a policy based on facts. That is what I hope of all of us and how this new distribution of money is going.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u22	Mr President! The World Climate Forum and the WWF have estimated that the number of wild animals has fallen by 60% over the last 50 years. The threat posed by alien species is also becoming increasingly obvious in Finland. Approximately half of the 400 habitat types in Finland have been estimated to be endangered. Far from improving, the situation has worsened over the past ten years. We are well aware, as has also been pointed out in this debate, that climate change is still speeding up the disappearance of species. It is therefore clear that, during the next parliamentary term, real changes must be made to how we are able to combat climate change and to participate in the work that world temperature does not rise above 1.5°C. We have already seen in this debate that here too we have a very different approach to things — we therefore need one.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u23	Mr President! This climate - policy debate brings to mind religious revival movements, where the late ones bear the most intense witness. Global awareness of environmental problems and the threat of climate change already emerged in the early 1970s at the time of the Stockholm Conference on the Environment, when the Rome Club published its report on the limits of Growth. We, who were then familiar with this issue, have implemented a policy of sustainable development for our part. This recent climate debate has indeed been such a competitive singing, who needs stronger measures. We must remember that Finland's contribution to creating climate change is negligible and our ability to influence global climate change is also negligible. We need a sense of proportion, my friends.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u24	Mr President! I focus on nature conservation and biodiversity, where there is indeed a major global threat, which is also present in Finland. The talk of government policy that excites the Minister's fantasticism is not in line with the honest picture of truth that scientists have presented. In Finland, almost half of the habitats are endangered, and the state of bogs and old forests in particular is very challenging. Species are constantly extinct in Finland. At the end of the last term of government, the Truncated Government, led by Minister Grahn-Laasonen, pushed down a long-standing programme for the protection of bogs, and this government has not initiated or continued the statutory programme for the protection of bogs. Only about one third of the objective of soil protection has been achieved. In other words, with the aim of protecting 100,000 hectares, state countries have now been protected by over 30,000 hectares, depending on the method of calculation. How can the Minister honestly see how Finland can implement Nagoya's goals to protect its bog nature so that the objectives of the protection of bogs are realised and, at the same time, combat climate change?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u25	Mr President! The decline in biodiversity and global warming are one of the most important issues for mankind's future. There is a very broad consensus between the parliamentary parties on this, and I too thank you for the joint work that was done at the end of last year. These guidelines, which were achieved, are heading in the right direction, but they are not sufficient. We are committed to the 1.5-degree target, and now these concrete actions must also be in line with our big objective. It is important for the SDP that when climate action is taken, it is done in the most equitable way possible in society. The line needs to be clear. It is a 1.5-degree line so that the climate does not get any warmer, but then these measures must be done in a socially just way so that they do not increase income differences, well-being differences between people. That is our clear line. I will take up what Mr Salolainen has said about forests, that not only the number of forests but also the quality of forests is the issue we need to talk about, and I fully agree with that. For example, the results targets of Metsähallitus should be moderated in such a way that forests of high natural value can be maintained. Is the government taking up this performance?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u26	Mr President! Indeed, Finland accounts for only 0.14% of total global emissions, and according to Professor Esa Vakkilainen of Lappeenranta University of Technology Finland is one handful of countries that have already reduced their emissions. In other words, Finland has already exceeded its share and is an excellent example, given that Finland has the coldest climate in the EU and the longest distances. Indeed, listening to this climate rhetoric of other parties is now going to be a kind of competition for who makes the most ambitious demands without being interested in calculating what it costs a normal taxpayer, a homeowner, a motorist — or is it so wonderfully expensive that even a price tag should not be lowered? The money of Finns goes mainly to housing and driving, and that's all there is left to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u27	Madam President! Climate change mitigation is about the total amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. It is affected both by emissions, as has been shown here, and by how much carbon we can remove from the atmosphere, namely carbon sinks. So we need to get the emissions down and the carbon sinks up. If we succeed in this, we will have the opportunity globally to achieve this 1.5-degree goal that we want to achieve — almost all parliamentary parties are jointly committed to it. But at the same time as we are talking about climate change mitigation, we must also talk about inequality. We need a sustainable tax reform that will ensure that the people who pay for climate policy do not become low and medium incomes. In many cases, environmental taxes are of an increasing nature, and their effects must then be taken into account in other taxation or other social policies, so that the fight against climate change, to which almost all of us are committed, is also a fair policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u28	At this stage, we will take three replies, then the Ministers’ answers, and then we will proceed with the debate. These three persons are representatives of Maijala, Talvitie and Judgments.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u29	Mr President! Climate issues are an important issue for all of us. Today I can be very proud that I am a rural person, because in the last 50 years people in the countryside of Finland have worked hard for the forest so that the growth of forests has doubled. So even though there was no mention of carbon sequestration at the time, nor of climate change, work has started seriously. A lot of results have been achieved. Thank you for that to all those who have worked for Finland's forests and for this growth, a very big thank you. But now we're in the next phase. It is now important that we increase the growth of forests, new forest areas. It is important that we also get money for research so that we can develop energy issues so that we can develop Finland's natural resources and nature as a whole very much forward. I would ask the Minister what measures are being taken to increase the energy side of the countryside and increase the growth of our forests?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u30	Mr President! It is important that we have this debate together. And why do you have to take care of the environment? It is not a gift from our past generations; it is a gift from those who come to borrow. At least for 20 years, I've had one foot in politics. Of course, we can do legislative work here in the Chamber. It is important to create an environment that, both in terms of taxation and incentives, we can get the citizens to act, we can get the local authorities and businesses to act, but also the countries at European and global level. What can Parliament do in addition to legislative work? Today we had an information meeting of the Parliament's Sustainable Development Task Force, which the President was also opening, and during this renovation, which Parliament has done, a lot of things have been done here for heating, lighting and air conditioning, which also contribute to the balance. We will also assess in the next month, two months, in this Sustainable Development Task Force whether there is a need to make some air compensation payments, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u31	Mr President! When Charles Darwin published his 1859 works The Origin of Species, he described a process that had taken hundreds of millions of years. If someone gets to write a work The Death of Species, he describes only hundreds of years of development. In this way man has influenced his environment, that the birth and death of species in the natural cycle have increased a thousandfold in relation to the earlier disappearance. It may be thought that the capitalist who beats up rain forests and sets up a steak farm makes profit and increases national income momentarily, but he impoverishs all mankind and then destroys the quality of our future life and perhaps the conditions of life. Therefore, too little attention has been paid to this loss of biodiversity. It is good that we are talking about climate change, but these two things belong together, and we know what climate change can bring, but we do not yet have any idea.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u32	Then the ministers give short answers, and then we go on. Ministers Tiilikainen, Mykkänen, Berner, two minutes. You can talk about the place.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u33	Madam President! Thank you for the good comments. A few comments: This fairness and the fight against inequality — which Mr Arhinmäki and Mr Modig raised here in particular — is extremely important. Of course, science tells us how much emissions must be reduced, science tells us what means and technologies we have available, science tells us what kind of economic governance can be used, but it is up to politicians to take action that is acceptable to the public. That's our job. Concrete, real action was called for here. I do not know anything more concrete or real than a ban on coal. It has been discussed in Finland since about 95 C.E. Now this government carried out its proposal. It is in the hands of Parliament, hopefully it will be adjusted. Representative Lehto said that emissions decreased most in Finland from EU countries. Fortunately, that is true. Why? The main single reason for this was the use of renewable fuels in transport, which is the fastest way to reduce transport emissions. Last year’s statistics show that — Mr Pekkarinen nods because he knows what he is talking about because he has been creating the system. Biogas is an unparalleled possibility of combining many benefits: firstly, renewable energy, rational treatment of manure or other waste, which can improve the nutrient treatment, decentralised production, the possibility of new incomes in rural areas and so on, plus the possibility of further reducing the nutrient load from the fields. This is one good example of the concrete measures that we hope will be taken in the future. Industry is also taking care of this and I am very pleased that Finnish industry, including at the mouth of the Confederation of Finnish Industries, is committed to this 1.5-degree target. It's about the responsibility of our industry. Representative Judgments made a fine illustration here — if rain forests are cut and then beef cattle are grazed, it is a long way from being able to endure. The Finnish meat herd that Mr Tuppurainen called for to be grazing on forest pastures: it is thanks to sustainability and diversity.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u35	Next up, Minister Mykkänen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u36	Mr President! One might suddenly think that climate change has any effect on the Minister of the Interior's actions, but in fact these issues are at the heart of the Ministry of the Interior's remit. This hall can rarely affect what has happened yesterday or the other day, quite a bit of what is happening this year, but we have a pretty big responsibility for what the world will be like in 20 years' time when today's teens are approaching middle age. For that world, perhaps the biggest single question is how many millions of people will be forced to leave their own region because of climate change, desertification, rising sea levels. And of course it is the case that Finland's emissions do not solve this, our carbon footprint is 1 per cent. But our handprint is and can be positive many times. Solutions have already been developed here that are being exported to China, India, where emissions are being solved. And if we take an ambitious attitude — as it seems we dare to take more and more — then even more solutions will be developed here to turn the world in the right direction. That is why I am very pleased with the broad-based approach adopted by the parliamentary parties. In my opinion, there are two essential elements: First of all, Finland leaps, as Minister Tiilikainen also pointed out, from a braker to a pioneer and forwarder in the European Union when it comes to the ambition of the emissions initiatives. It can have decisive effects in future negotiations. We in the EU need an increase in ambition for the 2030 decision because of the threats facing all of us children. Secondly, a clear line that electricity and heat will be produced without emissions in Finland by 2040 means a clear signal as well as the future of natural gas and peat, and investments are moving in that direction. Thank you for the fact that this policy has been possible, and in the spring we need a long-term emission pricing programme — whoever is in the government negotiations — so that it goes on and on.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u37	Secretary Berner, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u38	Madam President! Compared to the Nordic countries, Finland's emissions per capita were the second largest in 2016. Finland’s emissions per capita were twice as high as Sweden. Transport accounts for about 20 per cent of Finland's emissions and for about 40 per cent of the emissions in the burden-sharing sector. In the national energy and climate strategy and in KAISU, we have agreed together to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport by 50% by 2030. We have also agreed that transport will be carbon neutral by 2045. This would require a wide range of measures. If you have read the report of the Ministry of Transport and Communications and not just refer it to others, the report states that, in order to achieve these objectives, care must be taken in particular not to create discriminatory measures and that measures may differ between cities and rural areas. At the same time, it also states that there is a need for a comprehensive tax reform, which is not just a tax on transport. At the same time, it is also stated that Finland is a country of long distances and we need vehicles and certainly diesel cars in the future. It is also a question of our need for energy in transport being so great that we cannot simply satisfy it with biofuels. This also means that we need other solutions alongside this. One possibility would also be to consider creating a voluntary national type of emissions trading solution for transport, which would also enable us to extend our timeline to those national solutions that are necessary in the longer term.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u39	Mr President! Indeed, our generation will be judged by how we manage to control climate change. It is up to us whether there will be something more left behind for future generations than just interesting ruins. It will not be easy, otherwise it would have been done already. We are required to make radical changes to all sectors of society from transport to diet, from forestry to housing. Compared to that, trash and junk and fighter acquisitions are cheap, easy little wieners. Yet some here dare to shout: Who pays? What's the cost? It costs a lot less to the owner, the driver, the towner, than not doing everything right now, now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u40	Mr President! Every species on this planet is important. Each species has a role to play in the natural cycle. Man has seriously shaken this balance by gradually taking more and more space from the earth, leaving the rest of nature increasingly cramped. Extinct waves have been seen in the history of the earth before, but this sixth is exceptional because it is caused by one species, that is, man. We can no longer reverse the extinction wave, because the species can only die once, but we can stop the extinction of the species. This means saving and restoring the habitats of the species. Land use, poaching, use of waters, overfishing and so on must be constrained in construction and food production. We must stop global warming so that corals can survive and Arctic species can live. We need to protect the life-supporting variety of species.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u41	Mr President! In the big picture of climate policy, we agree that as little emissions as possible and a huge amount of action can be taken to increase carbon sinks. But when we go into the details, with which we are able to replace fossil fuels, for example, everyone is prepared to say that plugged electricity is coming, but when we start talking about what it is then produced, then we have had very different viewpoints — at least to date. Every time something's done, it doesn't happen, it doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u42	Madam President! The authors of the initiative said that it would be more expensive not to do anything, and still that if we do not succeed, everyone will be losers — well said. In this parliamentary term and in previous years, the pace has clearly changed. The spiritual ancestor on our side is Pertti Salolainen, who has been talking about this since the 1950s, started alone, and now we are talking together. In recent years, there has been a Paris climate agreement, a climate law, a common climate policy for parliamentary parties. Last week, the Coalition Party announced its environmental programme, budgeting for sustainable development, and the ban on coal has just been discussed in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. Yesterday we were talking here about the demolition of additional construction, which of course has to do with energy-efficient construction and closer urban structure. Good things. I agree with the draft nature. We have in the environmental programme that we need to protect the nature of the marsh and we need to move it forward. Rail transport: How, Ministers,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u43	Mr President, ärade talman! I, too, would like to thank Minister Tiilika for the good work that has been done in the cooperation of the various parties and for producing some sort of bottom paper, which we are now going to work towards better results. I believe that the young people who were standing on those crabs are, in fact, also satisfied with it, because their greatest concern is that we are not on the map, that we have not realised that this is not a competition but what is necessary for the earth to be saved and for them to have a future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u44	Mr President! Indeed, Finland must play its part in halting climate change and safeguarding biodiversity. When it has been recalled, I would venture to recall that I myself put forward 2006 that Finland should set the goal of being free from oil use in 2030. I remember that it was a bit of a surprise that what the President of the SDP was saying. Today, everyone is talking about this. But this is an even more demanding objective, because that is not enough of the ambitious measures that we are taking, and not even what the European Union is doing, but whose whole region has been woken up to this, but the whole world must be involved in this. The United States dropped out of the Paris climate agreement. What is our foreign policy doing? Here in the box, Secretary of State Soin should be there to tell us what he is doing about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u46	Mr President! This is probably the most important and far-reaching debate of this parliamentary term. Ecological restructuring is needed. Its ecological restructuring must be fair and fair at the same time. On the other hand, you have to ask yourself, "What's the price if you don't do anything?" In 2006, that famous Stern report was published, stating that when economies collapse and business activities sink down, there will be real threats to our economy as well. When we have the Finnish Presidency of the European Union at the end of this year, I think there are two things that need to be strongly raised: the second is a more functional, wider emissions trading system, which raises the cost of genuinely carbon ton, so that alternative energy solutions become profitable. The second is a better system for the calculation of sinks, its development so that Finland can genuinely benefit from sinks and their development. Swallows can be our future product. In Finland, the use of wood construction must be promoted.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u47	Madam President! In order to combat climate change, it is absolutely essential that we do our own work well, and that is what we have done. Finland's share of total emissions is slightly over the prom, and the decline continues all the time, so we are going in the right direction. The talk that we have some problems in forests is just populism, because if we start to think analytically about the management of climate change and the effects of climate change, we have a great opportunity to manage climate change policy sensibly by increasing the growth of forests, which in turn binds more and more coal. Then, on the other hand, when we consider that climate change will in any case come to some degree, the only forest that can withstand its great burden on the forest is a growing, prosperous forest. This has been studied at the research station in Mekrijärvi, for example, with research funded by the Academy of Finland. So it is worth remembering that if the forests are in good condition, climate change will also be taken care of on the side.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u48	Mr President! Climate change and the extinction wave are things that will change everything. Despite the fine speeches here, however, the policy has been very different. Right at the beginning of its term, this government directed its biggest cuts to the environment. More than half of the natural protection funds were cut and emissions auction revenues were no longer directed to climate work. On the other hand, subsidies that are harmful to the environment have been left very undisturbed. The industry will be paid new emissions trading compensation, the mining industry will be supported by lower taxes, the taxation of peat will remain lighter than it was when this government starts, and indeed the tax on motoring has been reduced by tens of millions of euros. At the same time, the government is determined to push for forest felling, even though scientists have repeatedly warned against their climate and environmental damage. At this rate, Finland will not stop the loss of biodiversity in the target period and we will not accept our responsibility for the 1.5-degree climate target, and that is the reason why we all need to do much more.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u49	Madam President! Indeed, in recent weeks, there has been a lot of cooperation in recent months, as this joint eight-party report shows, and I think this is a fine step forward. However, I think it is very important that the whole work on climate change is based on studies and research results. Now, for example, the very big question is the forests of Finland. There have been so many discussions over the last few days about how they act either as a carbon sink or do not work whether the carbon sinks are growing or not. It would really be good if we had a united vision and we would also be united on the European front in terms of how much we can use our forests, how much we also need to defend diversity in forests that are in a state of nature, but now it seems that we do not have a coherent and proper understanding of the fact that we should speak with one voice and that it will also prevent economic investment in the exploitation of forests. So I ask the Minister: how can we find such unity in this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u50	Mr President! I quite agree with all the speakers that we have received serious warnings about environmental pollution and emissions, but there have been many speeches that have overlooked the fact that we should reduce emissions by 45% worldwide in just over ten years. Finland's share of it is less than a per mill, so even if we catch Finland today - I do not mean that we do not have to continue with this good work - then that goal is almost unattainable. In other words, we should now mobilise the means that we can take, and, for example, under the EU Presidency, pressure other EU countries to do their part. Poland, Romania — they have huge emissions compared to us, and yet we are taking on their burdens. Another factor affecting biodiversity and environmental protection is the explosive growth of people in Africa and India, for example – I have often spoken about this here, but I have never received an answer as to whether Finland is discussing this at international tables – because the more people, the more space is required. There won't be any of those hors d'oeuvres.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u51	Madam President! First of all, briefly to Mr Heinäluoma: Minister Terho is promoting Finland’s national interest together with the President of the Republic in China — in short. In this regard, Mr Kalli raised an important point which, in my opinion, reveals the fact that the Greens are based on expert knowledge and the claim that all means must be used is hollow. For ideological reasons, the Greens continue to oppose nuclear power, although it is one of the most effective means of producing the maximum amount of energy at the lowest possible environmental cost.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, there was someone here who was wondering when I was going to give Mr Elo another floor. In the topical debate, all groups must be able to debate. If there is only one person in the group, then we must also give him the floor, so I would now ask you to take this point into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u55	Mr President! I believe that this debate would require a somewhat more realistic approach and fairness. We all know that there has been much discussion in this Chamber recently about whether Finland's forests can withstand fellings more or less. I think that Finnish forest management should be awarded an eco-label. It must be remembered that over the past decades Finland's forest growth has accelerated significantly and carbon sequestration has increased, and this has also been supported by the actions of the current government. It is extremely important to remember this. I believe that more intensive use of wood should be made even more effective, which is extremely important. We can make wood much more than today. One wooden apartment building binds coal to the same amount as 700 cars a year emits carbon dioxide — one wooden apartment building. This is a concrete example, and I think this could be an example of wood construction.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u56	Madam President! The excessive use of natural resources and climate change are also part of the cause of conflicts and refugee crises, which means that combating climate change is an essential part of security policy. Of course, efforts and cooperation from all countries are needed to solve global problems, and Finland certainly has its part to play. Finland also has the opportunity to be a pioneer in many areas, including the development of various technological solutions. It is therefore important that the cuts made by this government to the financing of innovation and research should be stopped. We can also be exporting forest expertise to other parts of Europe and, on the other hand, we can be exporting common afforestation projects with other EU countries to Africa, among others. Energy self-sufficiency needs to be increased by improving the energy efficiency of production, transport and housing, and we really need to get rid of fossil fuels as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u57	Mr President! On the basis of current information, disconnection does not seem likely. This means that economic growth and less emissions are not possible at the same time, but we have to choose. If we choose economic growth, it means that a considerable proportion of the ball becomes unviable, the food production of societies collapses. And if we choose sufficient global measures to stop global warming, that means zero or minus growth with all the consequences that we are well aware of. In recent days it has been hoped that things will be spoken in their true names, so let us say this now: capitalism in its present form is not compatible with a viable planet.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u58	Värderade Talman! Klimatet och den globala uppvärmningen är faktiskt en av vår tids största utmangar för mänskligheten, och jag har stor förståelse för alla de ungdomar som stod på trappan ox uranför riksdagshuset senaste vecka.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u59	Mr President! Thank you to the authors of both discussion initiatives. I'd like to raise the education to this conversation. Jukka O. Mr Mattila recently contacted us, a few members of the Committee on Education, Public Health and Consumer Policy, and raised an important issue, namely the systematic involvement of climate change and, more generally, biodiversity in our curricula. He stressed how we would need binding solutions for both qualifications and curricula in primary schools, upper secondary schools, vocational education and also teacher education. This may sound obvious, but I am counting on an experienced teacher whose distress call was at stake here. He believed that many teachers have not so much awakened to the reality we need to prepare our young people for if we are to achieve this objective of carbon neutrality in 2035 and make all the major structural changes that we need in taxation, forestry policy and other policy areas in this country in the coming years. I would therefore like the government to bring this up immediately so that we can go through the curricula for next semester. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u60	President! I am starting from this carbon sequestration and growing of trees, because coal sequestration is at its peak in the forests that are well-managed, which are breeding forests. In other words, management measures taken at the right time will increase carbon sequestration and forest growth. Old forests are again very diverse. Everyone needs to be taken into account. Forest growth in Kainuu and North Ostrobothnia is in a really good phase, progressing well, and forests currently bring most export income to Finland. In the future, we hope that permanent plastics or even wood-based clothing and fibres will generate additional income. One-third of Finland's surface area is swamp and one-third is swamp forest, which must be managed very carefully in order to act as a carbon sink. Now I ask whether, in future, forest owners or landowners could be paid for this carbon sequestration.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u61	Madam President! The carbon footprint of the Finnish, that is, each of us, is more than 10 tonnes per year, each of us being Finns. Even though the Indian carbon footprint is less than 2 tons a year. So it is of great importance where some 5.5 million people from around the globe are taken. Let's talk about the global significance of the emissions of that crowd. Mr President! Today’s most important news in today’s newspapers and media has received little column space. For example, infatuation with stuffed lips in the columns of Helsingin Sanomat gave the whole opening space, but the news of the melting of the glaciers of the South Pole could only fit on the edge of the page in a small column. I think this tells us a lot about how we should change our thinking both in the media and in decision-making. If, for example, the U.S. Space Administration, NASA, discovered that a large asteroid was on a collision course with the country, this information would probably be number one in the world. That melting of continental glaciers has the same effect, but that is not what we have discussed today.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u62	Mr President! Many plans and targets to curb and halt climate change are good, but, for example, plans to ban the sale of new petrol and diesel vehicles by 2035 and to replace them with electric cars, for example, raise doubts. My own province, North Ostrobothnia, is a province of long distances. There are few charging points for electric cars, and it does occur to me whether it is very profitable to even bring them to small places. In view of all the manufacturing of an electric car, it takes nearly ten years to talk about environmentally friendly driving. Public feedback also speaks for the use of ethanol in newer cars. By adding ethanol refueling points, older cars could be used up to the end. I would like to ask the Minister responsible: could resources be allocated to tackling the challenges posed by the use of ethanol, for example, in the condition of the car?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u63	Mr President! EU citizens have the right to expect protection from cross-border threats from the Union. Either we answer them with responsible cooperation or we leave them to populist fuel. Climate change must be combated by a number of means, one of which is taxation. We already have an EU-wide emissions trading system that needs to be stepped up and extended to transport, including air transport. The taxation of production needs to be accompanied by the taxation of consumption, a CO2 tax which must also be at least European Union-wide, because every single country uses competitiveness as a pretext for inaction, as has already been heard in this Chamber. The Sipilä Government has taken a hard look at the European Union's own resources, which call for responsible international cooperation. Could Finland, during its Presidency, promote a common CO2 tax and extend emissions trading as a new hope and justification for existence for the European Union? Our kids don't want us to inherit 400 TV channels,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u64	Madam President! I believe that climate change, which makes many areas unviable, together with population growth is one of the greatest threats to world peace, because this combination is driving human flows. We have already seen how the currents then wave political systems around the world. But, Mr President, I believe that there should be realism in this climate debate, as it is now. For example, we cannot frame forest management and the forest industry. They've been saving the world for 50 years. And the question is why they cannot continue this work, for the number of trees, the number of carbon stocks, has risen by more than 70 percent in 50 years. And if we are really concerned about transport emissions, then we need to talk about the renewable car fleet, no matter what the power, and interfere with the car tax, which is constantly increasing imports here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u65	Madam Speaker! Very good points of view have been raised here. At least it must be said as a positive thing that in Finland, as in the Western world, this respect for nature has become a trendy choice for both private and business alike. That's where I see potential. The problem, however, is to a large extent the problem of scraping everything from abroad and maintaining the level of octopus, filling the corners of China-krääta from the country that pollutes the most. This is an absolutely intolerable problem in the big picture. The issue that should always be taken into account in this climate change debate is population growth, as it is a very important part of the increase in emissions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u68	Mr President! It is ridiculous that the government, which has cut low incomes, has increased the tax benefits of high incomes and reduced progressive income tax, is now concerned that climate policy is the one that weakens the position of low incomes and increases inequality. After all, climate policy is not a separate part of other policies, but the answer to the question of who pays depends on the kind of economic and tax policy the parties are committed to. It is understandable to me that a large number of Finns now fear that climate change will bring with it a situation in which equal taxes are rising and people’s financial position is deteriorating. That is why the Left Alliance believes that climate policy should be guided by climate justice, so that subsidies that are harmful to the environment for large companies are reduced and, if changes are made to environmental taxation, they will be compensated for the low-income through tax and income transfer policies at the same time as the taxation of high-income people. It is also possible to solve this social problem in a socially just way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u69	Madam President! The well-being of the environment, climate and nature is a condition and condition for all other well-being. Mankind has taken a quick boost in building well-being on the fossil economy and using natural resources regardless of tomorrow. That quick lever has impoverished us all, and the real annual interest rate and effects of the loan are visible to us all. In this debate, it is important to remember that climate change, environmental change and loss of biodiversity are all linked to the same phenomenon. And since climate change changes everything, we must inevitably change all our ways of producing, consuming and moving. This work requires taxation, legislation and agreements to achieve carbon neutrality and to ensure climate justice, as Mr Andersson also pointed out. All parties must explain their concrete commitment to cutting emissions down and raising carbon sinks and safeguarding biodiversity. The citizens have earned it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u70	Madam President! Coal is the best carbon binding if left unexplored and is also the share of lignite. These are totally ecological disasters in Poland and Germany, which means that, in this EU policy, we must very strongly take the message that this must be changed. It is in the hands of Parliament that we now have this prohibition on the use of coal, and I hope that it will also go through this Parliament in the Constitutional Committee. I'm sure the minister has earned his medal, the climate hero's medal. We have about 640,000 forest owners, and according to Mikko Tiirola’s arithmetic, every forester is responsible for the carbon emissions of about 130 people, which means that this will probably lead to the sink of about 80 million people. It's worth preserving, they're worth strengthening, but we need to develop this emission side too, Finnish forests can't swallow all the shit, to put it in Finnish as far as air is concerned — excuse us.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u71	Mr President! Sustainable development, the fight against climate change and the preservation of species diversity require policy coherence. Policy coherence means taking matters into account in all decision-making, in the impact assessment of legislative proposals and also in the preparation of the budget. The current budgetary practice does not take sufficient account of these issues. In part, the lack of policy coherence is due to the fact that we do not have proper indicators in place. GDP does not take sufficient account, for example, of environmental pollution. From the point of view of sustainable development, the signals provided by GDP can even mislead us. The more unsustainable economic development is, the faster GDP increases in the short term, to which the representative of the Court of Justice referred. Among other things, the EU, the United Nations and NGOs have become more active in developing indicators of well-being. Hopefully we could be pioneers and during the EU Presidency we could highlight the welfare economy and these new welfare indicators, which also take into account the well-being and sustainability of nature.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u72	Mr President! We were talking about the climate elections. It is also an immigration election. We know how climate change causes climate refugees. People's lives are shrinking, poverty is driving them into exile.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u76	Next up, Congressman Savola. Let us leave these people who have not yet received the floor but who are here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u77	Madam President! The Government has done a lot of climate action, and companies in particular have done a lot of climate action in real terms. Bio-based materials have come to replace oil-based materials. Wood construction has been promoted and progress has been made. Bioenergy is produced. In fact, Finnish food production is the answer to climate change mitigation. Finnish grass binds coal, our land is suitable for grass cultivation. It can be formed for humans through the flesh as food. There is Finnish game, diversity, everything we have in the forests. The processes can also be produced as a by-product of biogas, which is an important form of energy. As far as energy is concerned, however, I would like to remind you that it is a matter of putting the head in the bush if the energy is brought to us from the outside. We must remember security of supply in any case, both in food production and, in particular, in energy production.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u78	Madam President! As Mr Mikkonen said in his opening speech, young people in particular have been perhaps the loudest part of the debate on climate and biodiversity in recent times. That voice has been very demanding, and it has been absolute. It has been great to see that that voice is heard in Finland and that it has clearly also been an international phenomenon. There has also been a lot of strong contributions from young people from the world. At the moment, young people are often also the population group in society that is already doing the most in support of biodiversity and the prevention of global warming. But at the same time, the fact is that many young people also experience anxiety about climate change, and feel powerless about not being able to influence, are unable to participate or may not even be informed. I myself think that the issue of inclusion and the right to information for young people is also an important issue when we talk about combating climate change. The representative, Mr Torsti, mentioned the school system and education, and young people have also received a strong message that information in schools may not always be up-to-date. These are questions about where new information comes from all the time, and it is therefore important to ensure that:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u79	Mr Karimäki, Mr Kääriäinen and Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto have not been given the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u80	Mr President! The sixth wave of mass extinction in world history is now under way. The fifth wave was 65 million years ago when dinosaurs disappeared. That's when the mammals survived. Now one mammal, man, releases fossil fuels and warms the climate so that it also destroys biodiversity. The speeches here in the Chamber have clearly awakened to this crisis and there is a desire to act, but the measures needed are many times more effective and many times more impressive than what has been done so far. In the case of nature conservation areas, for example, it will be quite necessary to increase the amount of EUR 100 million per year for the purchase of nature conservation areas next season. A timetable must be set for how to drive down all fossil fuels during the 2020s. We need to do all the politics with our eyeglasses.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u81	Mr President! Fifteen minutes ago, Congressman Reijonen told us about a 16-story wooden apartment building in Joensuu — I think it's an apartment building built by Reijonen's company. I'm just saying, you better do better than that. Mr President! Finland is on a good path in this fight against global warming, and it is particularly comforting that ambition exists, there are very hard goals towards the future, as it should be, both for Finland and for the European Union. It's the right thing to do. But I would like to stress that it is not enough, of course, to prevent this global disaster, but it will require the full involvement of the world outside Europe in order to achieve a real result that will enable us to live here on earth in tens of years' time. At the same time, I would like to stress that when tough measures are taken here in the country, social justice must always be remembered, that the disadvantaged in our society do not find themselves in quite intolerable situations to deal with this important issue. To the end, the forests have our chance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u82	Madam President! Indeed, in halting climate change and safeguarding biodiversity, we need to move from words to deeds, and all actions are counted, as has been said here. For example, the transition to carbon-neutral transport would require, among other things, the introduction of a flight tax or air travel compensation, and I would have been interested to hear what the Minister of Transport thinks about such matters. Minister Tiilikainen, on the other hand, welcomed the recent strengthening of the Saimaan seal, but climate change is threatening to accelerate the extinction of species, and this also applies to the Saimaan elephant. Among other things, our backward mining law threatens to destroy the clean habitat of the Saimaan elephant, which means that, among other things, the mining law should be urgently reformed,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u83	I would like to give three more replies: the representatives of Tuppurainen, Mikkonen and Salolainen, then the ministers' replies, and then this debate is over.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u84	Madam President! Clock's ticking. Finland is also committed to the UN Convention on Biological Diversity, according to which the loss of biodiversity had to be halted by 2020 — that is, by next year. Deadline will be next year, and that is why it is very important for Parliament to have this debate now. It would probably also be necessary to have such a Stern report on biodiversity in order to open up to large-scale civil society, which is also important for the economic loss of diversity. In the next parliamentary term, additional efforts will be necessary. For example: The Nature Conservation Association has proposed EUR 100 million a year for the expansion, restoration and management of nature reserves. In addition to this, funding comes from the EU budget, the Structural Funds and other funds, and there is now a risk that the EU budget will be reduced as a result of Brexit and also as a result of the Finnish Government's savings targets. It is inevitable that we must now prioritize. Funding must be found if we are to respond to the diversity challenge and climate change.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u85	Mr President! This debate has shown that the majority in this Chamber understand the great challenges we face. It is great that we have also been able to set common ambitious objectives, but those objectives will be weighed first and foremost during the next parliamentary term: how do we get them into action? We must make a change so that it is socially just, that is clear. But we can do it if we want to, because we in this Chamber are the ones who can determine how taxation is targeted, how to compensate the most low-income ones so that they do not find themselves in an unreasonable position. There was a lot of talk about the woods around here. We have a great opportunity in the forests, but we must ensure that we use them sustainably. From a climate point of view: forests are binding on coal — the extension of the round of logging alone would be a decisive factor in improving it, and wood construction of course. More science is needed in how forests are used,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u86	Madam President! I would like to quote that I am very pleased and pleased that this debate has now taken place here. I can tell you this is historic. I have been here for 38 parliaments when these end, and never before has this Parliament had such a debate. This is historic and unique, and I take it as this Parliament is now finally waking up to what we as mankind are going to — and we as Finns too. We're not innocent. I'm a hell of a bag of sins myself. I fly a lot, travel a lot, have a car and a summer cottage. I'm a sack of sins, just like all of us Finns are. We must all recognise that something important must be done in the near future. My final point is this is not rocket science. Small things can take care of things. For example, pollinators: there are no longer enough bees and insects in Central Europe;
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u87	Then the answers of the ministers. Minister Tiilikainen, do you have three minutes? And Minister Berner, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u88	Mr President! Thank you for this diverse debate which we have had and which Mr Salolainen described as historic with his own long, commendable perspective and perspective. There are a few more things I would like to comment on: First of all, I did not have time to say to this concern raised by Mr Niinistö regarding the protection of swamps: As far as the state countries are concerned, that conservation programme has been implemented. Those who are threatened by other forms of use, i.e. mainly those with trees, have been protected through the Metso programme, and in honour of Mr Niinistö, it has to be said that the swamp classification that was laid down in the previous period will largely protect valuable bogs from other uses. So the point of the swamps is pretty good. However, it is good to move forward when the money goes in. Mr Adlercreutz and Mr Kosonen asked about the extension of the emissions trading system, just like many others: So in April I took the initiative to extend emissions trading to individual heating. Now it is in this common line of eight parties. The expansion of traffic is a little more problematic. Even now, in many countries, fiscal control and the setting of carbon prices for transport fuels is significantly higher than the level of emissions trading, so it is not as simple as whether it will help or not. But, of course, we are taking the expansion of emissions trading at EU level forward. Representative Aalto well stated that the fossil economy is the quick lever of humanity. It is well said, and the answer is that we are moving from a fossil economy to a bio-economy and a circular economy, and of course its bio-economy, especially the exploitation of forests, must be sustainable, both in terms of diversity and climate. That's what we're aiming for. There was some concern about population growth worldwide. Perhaps this is where the best remedy is for girls' education and health care in development policy, because they are proven to be working in this direction. I thank Mr Haavisto for his very constructive approach. I'd even like to say welcome to the government line. Your listing that we need more efficient emissions trading and that the system for calculating sinks could be developed in such a way that the large sinks also benefit — an excellent idea — and the increase in wood construction show the consensus-seeking that we have, fortunately, widely. Mr Heinäluoma is now busy elsewhere, but he has raised this foreign policy dimension, and it is really a pleasure to tell you that today, together with Prime Minister Sipilä, we have invited Nordic prime ministers and climate ministers to a joint meeting in Helsinki on 25 January. Why? The Nordic countries can be a bigger player than their size. Many people have thought that Finland is now so small, but the Nordic countries together are already the eleventh largest economy in the world. We have shown that we can increase people's well-being and the economy at the same time as emissions go down at a high speed. We have technological know-how to share with other countries, we are able to influence what other countries are doing by means of climate diplomacy, and we are a reliable partner in development policy. We can take solutions and support weaker, poorer countries to act responsibly. Mr Kontula asked an excellent question in relation to capitalism, and in fact I would say that my own view is that neither capitalism nor socialism will solve climate change and the loss of biodiversity, nor any form ofism — rather such a direct road in the midst of a free people, by the name of directing the economy in an ecologically and socially sustainable way, in a spirit of sustainable development.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u89	Then Minister Berner, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u90	Madam President! For my part, too, I would like to thank you for this debate. A few comments: At the beginning of this year, the Ministry of Transport and Communications has established a unit for climate and environment. Its aim is to ensure that the ministry's expertise in this sector increases and that decisions can be very well prepared. Emissions solutions for transport include more than fossil fuels for road transport. The decision on the principle of walking and cycling and the promotion programme have been completed last year. Aid for the purchase of electric cars has been decided until 2021. Similarly, solutions have been made for the conversion of vehicles to biogas and ethanol. We've been using a scrapping fee. Support has been built to develop public transport in large urban areas, to promote digitalisation and the serviceisation of transport, and we have joined the Transport Emission Reduction Alliance. As far as rail transport is concerned, efforts have been made to ensure that we have maximum conditions for raising the volume of our passenger traffic and freight traffic in the next period. To this end, the piloting of regional rail transport and the preparation of decisions on three projects are under way. Efforts will be made to increase the supply of rail transport and to ensure that we also have genuine financing solutions for the development of rail infrastructure. A Green Deal agreement has been signed with the car industry and a wood construction programme for transport infrastructure has been built in order to genuinely ensure that the number of bridges built from wood is growing in Finland as well. Moreover, the reform of the car fleet is an absolutely central issue and requires tax reform. The Government or the Ministry of Transport and Communications do not have a plan to ban diesel cars. I do not think it is necessary, but it is also almost impossible to do so because our car fleet has also grown old, that we must first ensure that we have a genuine common will to reform the car fleet before we move out of bans. I have some reservations about air tax. This is a very global mode of transport, and I think it is important that Finland is increasingly active in ensuring that emissions from both air and maritime transport are genuinely agreed internationally, resolved with ambitious targets and required to be monitored. Thirdly, on the list of two points by Mr Haavisto, I would like to say that we can genuinely better monitor the effectiveness of our emission reduction measures and their calculation, so that we will make the right decisions in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u91	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 22/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u92	Mr President! The safety investigation shall be carried out in the case of a significant accident and incident or any other exceptional situation. It will no longer help those who have lost their lives, but it is an effort to learn from the contrary. The report by the Administrative Committee underlines the importance of effective cooperation between the authorities. The police are conducting an investigation into the allocation of legal responsibility, which is not part of the safety investigation. Given the purpose of the safety investigation, I believe that it is justified to transfer the organisational location of the investigation team investigating an exceptional event from the Ministry of Justice to the Safety Investigation Centre. I doubt there have been any major problems here today, but it is important to emphasise the independence and impartiality of these qualifications. The investigation may be a very delicate and mind-blowing event. It is not enough to have an impartial investigation, but it must also look like it as much as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u93	Mr President! This is indeed an amendment to the Safety Investigation Act which we have had before the Administrative Committee. Essentially, the change is not very big, but, as Mrs Maijala said, there are certain things that deserve attention in these areas too. In the future, therefore, the task force for investigating such an exceptional event would be to place the Safety Investigation Authority in place of the Ministry of Justice, and the monitoring of the implementation of the recommendations made as a result of such an exceptional event would be delegated to the Accident Investigation Authority. In addition, provisions on accessibility, reporting obligations and cooperation between public authorities would be reviewed. It is important that, when specific accidents and the like occur, the investigation that follows is independent and impartial. It is also important, of course, to draw attention to the fact that the necessary and sufficient expertise has been guaranteed in relation to its investigation. When it may be a matter of very different degrees, it is important that we have cooperation between the authorities and that the investigations proceed in such a way that when the conclusions come, then we have full confidence that this is the result of the investigation, in a way like in many other matters. All in all, a worthy government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u94	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u95	Mr President! As a representative of Parliament over the years, I have been able to participate in numerous visits around Finland in various Finnish everyday environments. One of my most memorable visits has been a visit to a children’s home where young people attended school at a comprehensive school set up in connection with a children’s home. The principal reported that the majority of young people have serious childhood traumas and abuse. Some of these young people already had children of their own. In the school home, they finally received the help and support they needed much earlier. I always remember thinking at the time that we owe these young people. The value of society is measured in the way it treats the most vulnerable and the most vulnerable. The principal of this school said that he was saddened that the aftercare of young people in child welfare now ends too early, at the age of 21, just as a youth is moving into his own home and still needs the help and support of society. These kids have a high risk of suicide. Many young people feel that the end of aftercare has been abandoned. What's the point of this, I remember thinking back then. If we did not leave the young person alone, we could help him catch up with his studies and working life. Now we are telling the young that reaching the age of 21 is an obligation to survive alone from now on. It is a harsh message to a young person who has been taken into care just because there has not been enough support and help in his immediate circle. Mr President! In my bill I propose to amend the Child Welfare Act to increase the age limit for child welfare aftercare to 25 years. Today, the age limit for the end of aftercare is 21 years. The current age limit is too low, as many young people are at risk of exclusion when child welfare comes to an end. The exclusion of young people is a serious problem. According to the estimates of the Me Foundation, there are currently nearly 66,000 marginalised young people in Finland. If a child ends up in child protection at an early age or at 12 to 16 years of age, the risk of exclusion as a young adult may increase by up to five times. Concrete measures are now needed to address the plight of children and young people. My initiative would give child welfare professionals more tools to do what's best for young people. It also has the strong support of key expert organisations in child protection, and they have promoted it, for which I thank you. Mr President! I am therefore very pleased that the majority of MPs have been sending out a strong signal with this bill. A total of 115 MPs from all parliamentary parties have signed a bill. With this message, we say that effective child protection is in the interests of society as a whole. The strong support of MPs is important in promoting the importance of child protection now and in the future. Child welfare and its aftercare must be seen as a social investment in the life of a young person. It is also clear that this legislative amendment alone is not enough. Resources are needed to support children and young people and families. The number of clients of child welfare employees should also be limited by law, as the number of clients is excessive in a large part of the country. Mr President! This legislative amendment would give child welfare professionals one more concrete way to tackle the exclusion of young people. It could provide support, help and brighter prospects for young people who have had a hard experience at the beginning of their lives. We owe it to these young people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u96	Madam President! It is extremely easy to agree with this bill. I really welcome this, and I would also like to thank Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto for taking the initiative and for getting such a large number of parliamentarians behind the initiative. This is an important part of preventing the exclusion of young people, and it is important to remember that young people with a child protection background often face much more challenges in their lives, with which they struggle and go a long way in life. It may also often be that certain stages of youth may begin later, such as the start of studies at the second stage — it does not necessarily begin at the very age of the majority of young people, but rather at a later stage — and this also supports it beyond the need for support. On a practical level, there are also a lot of things that can be learned, which is also important to take into account in the need for support and precisely in the need for it to go further in life. For example, I met a youth with a child - welfare background, and I found it interesting that he himself had started to spend time with friends who already had children of his own. He did this because he had realized that he has no experience of living in a more traditional family with parents and two or three children, and he had to start to feel, to learn that as an adult, at the age of 20. So these are also possibly the backgrounds we are dealing with. At the same time, of course, it is important to remember that we would not allow the child protection background to mark the young person and his future, but that it would be perfectly clear that all paths and doors are equally open, and there are also many young people who do not necessarily need that much support. I also met a youth of child protection background who is currently studying at a university, and he himself said that when he applied to a university, his main obstacles were school counselors and, as it were, their suspicion that he would be able to proceed to university studies. It is also important to remember this. A truly worthwhile initiative. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u97	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto for the fact that this bill has been adopted and has been discussed here. The number of signatories probably reflects the fact that the subject matter may have come across different routes and is such that in many ways this is, as it were, an indisputable and justifiable change of legislation. Two points of view that I wanted to raise in this debate: First of all, when Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto raised what are such touching moments, perhaps one of the unforgettable things that has led me since then to all the work that has been carried out by young people and this whole discussion of exclusion, Vamos perhaps five years ago joined in presenting a picture with the title, say now, “25-year-old Happiness”. It then listed all possible contacts with the authorities over the 25 years, and of course there were over a hundred, and it had been found that, despite all this, at the age of 25, he is homeless, toothless, unemployed and so on. So something on our system level just hasn't worked. After all, this has resulted in a lot of research into what, on the one hand, are the key experiences or situations that suddenly lead to a situation where the reality of a 25-year-old is not so gloomy and, in general, one logical reason is one adult or a timely intervention earlier or later. Now, in a way, this bill allows it to continue to be a good start in a certain way, because it often happens on the eve of adulthood if the problem has not been resolved in the past. The other is, in fact, a little touched on what Mr Toivola has also pointed out. The last time we discussed the free second stage in the Committee on Education, Public Health and Consumer Protection today, it once again came up precisely by Save the Children's Association that, especially in the case of client children in child welfare, it may often be delayed and, in a way, it does not apply to the type of law that people think about the educational path, and it will be possible to take this into account as a whole. In other words, let us hope that this bill will be dealt with quickly, because it will enable those who work in the sector to have the tools that they do not currently have. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u98	Mr President! Children and young people in foster care often need support after a long period of adulthood. This so-called aftercare is one form of support. Now the age limit is 21 years and the initiative proposes that it be raised to 25 years. In the light of current knowledge, this is all the more necessary and justified, but it must be remembered that these people may need different kinds of services, such as therapy or other services, for example, for a long time after that. Thank you, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, for this initiative. It's a really necessary performance. Let's turn to exclusion. Displacement is often inherited. It can cost society a lot of money. If the fact that a few years forward can help young people in these matters brings about the prevention of the inheritance of exclusion or many other things, then what a great economic significance this will have for our society. Personally, I am grateful to my own family and family for allowing me to grow up in a whole community. But now, as a mother of four, I’ve been very close to watching what it could be if things weren’t all right. Although these young people, what I have, have now got into the study and everything else and quite a bit like their own, they can still come from mother and father and family every now and then to ask what this is all about. So they have support and security. How important it is that this family’s protection also exists for children and young people. But if a young person doesn't have anyone to really ask, then how big is it? It would be a real shame if this proposal were not adopted and taken forward. I hope this is taken seriously. Even if this is the end of the parliamentary term, this could be dealt with. If this issue cannot be dealt with during this parliamentary term, we hope that this will be remembered when the next government programme is being drawn up, that is to say, taking into account this position of young people, how we will care about our young people in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u99	Mr President! As has already been said here, this initiative is very important and worthy of support. We often talk in this Chamber about the exclusion of young people and how to deal with it in concrete terms, and this initiative, which has been taken by Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, is one concrete way of doing so. If we raise this age limit for aftercare from 21 to 25 years, it will really mean a lot to these young people that they will still be able to get help after 21 years — help and support in coping with everyday life, living, living and studying. I am very pleased that Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto has taken this initiative and has received broad support here in Parliament. It has been signed by 113 representatives and is a strong signal that this will require a change. After all, with quite a small change, we are able to influence the lives of so many young people. In this situation in particular, when we know that the investment of children has only increased, that this problem is not even diminishing in any way, but is growing, it is important for society to be able to support young people for as long as possible, for everyone to find their place in this society, for help and support and not be alone, such as now that it is a critical 21 year old and not necessarily an adult, no supporter. With this amendment of the law, we would be able to help for at least a few years to come. Indeed, although, as has been said, the parliamentary term is really far along, I would like to see a common understanding of this and this change being made when we know how important it is. Various child protection organisations have also been strongly supportive of this initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u100	Madam President! I would like to express my warm thanks to the Members of Parliament who have been present for this debate. Although we are unfortunately few in this Chamber debate, I am very pleased that this initiative itself has been signed by a majority of parliamentarians, indeed, and if you think and consider that there were 115 signatories and that ministers generally do not sign the initiatives and the chairmen of the parliamentary groups, then this initiative really does have very strong support across party boundaries. I did hear that when I was talking to the MPs. A great many pointed out that this age of 21 is indeed artificial. It is a legal age, and it does not respond to the need and distress that a young person may have. Indeed, this message that when you turn 21, from now on you have to cope alone, is a rather unappreciative message from our society to this young person. I sincerely hope that we will be corrected. In fact, at this very moment in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, there is a Child Welfare Act, which includes, among other things, a section on such a customer plan, which, as it were, agrees on what kind of support a youth in child welfare needs. For example, I think that it is precisely this support to pass secondary education, as well as this raising the age limit for after-care to be appropriate, which could also be stated in this law, but in itself my draft law specifically concerns a separate law concerning this age limit for after-care. That law would only change this one number to the second, 21 to 25. Yes, the idea is that the young person will get the support he needs. This would have great human significance and then economic importance. At the end of this session, I will return to this principal I met and told you about in that speech. Yes, he said that he marveled at the fact that, when caring for these abused children and young people who were already in care of them at a young age is also quite expensive for society, he does not understand that once they have been transported through basic education and perhaps even through secondary school, they will be deprived of the help and support they need. He said that he cannot understand the fact that we are wasting these human and financial resources. This is also a matter shared by all those Members who put their name on this initiative. I thank you for this debate and I hope that this initiative will be successful. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u101	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. First speech to the author of the initiative. Congressman Skinner, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u102	Mr President! The position of a Finnish athlete is not always easy, and the career of an athlete is often very short. We can easily see on television and other media when players and professionals celebrate gold medals, and of course it is nice to have them and they are fun to celebrate, but we have to remember that the working life of a top athlete is very short and based on physical ability, which we all take a certain amount of time, which means age sets its limits. The average working life is well under ten years, and in professional series it may even be under two years. It is therefore great that this model has already been launched in Finland in the 1990s, Mr President, and one can say that it is a model of trade unionism, i.e. it has started to protect the life after its short career in such a way that athletes have been able to fund their salaries. The problem, however, is that in other parts of Europe, particularly Sweden, there has been much better opportunities for funding, and this creates a considerable competitive advantage for Sweden at the moment. We see it, for example, in domestic hockey, so that our players leave for Sweden precisely in connection with this possibility of funding. In other words, in Sweden, you can fund your salary as much as you want and raise your funds whenever you want or need, because there is no obligation to use it. This, in turn, makes it possible for an athlete to receive his own old-age pension without investing in society. The proceeds from the Fund shall be taxed on the basis of earned income when the funds are raised. This competitive advantage in Sweden, as I said, has affected the departure of many players from Finland instead of staying in their country of origin to continue their gambling career and pay taxes in Finland. By changing the state of the funds that I am presenting here, the situation of teams and also of individual athletes will improve and sports will become a more desirable profession, although still risky, which will affect the economy in many different ways. The general interest in sports, as we have talked about here, for example, with regard to the report on sports policy, is very important in terms of public health. Sport as a profession gives and allows for the management of its own financial situation up to retirement pension, which would also be a good competitive advantage for domestic series and clubs. Mr President! Under the current law, i.e. under the current law, in Finland, an athlete is allowed to fund his or her sports income up to 50 per cent of gross income or EUR 100000, which is lower. These funded funds will have to be raised within ten years of the end of the career and, of course, a normal income tax will be paid on withdrawals. So this is the difference between Sweden and Sweden, where there are no such borders. And now what we are proposing here with the other signatories to my bill is that Finland would become competitive here too, in line with the Swedish model, and we would not lose these talents when we were young, or even a little older, in Sweden and pay taxes there. The fiscal impact on the state here is very small. It may even be the opposite, because when all these are raised at some point, then, of course, the cumulative sum is large, and even the maximum tax is paid when the progress is discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u103	Mr President! I myself have been an active athlete when I was young, but when I started a family and became the host of a farm, I was forced to give up my sports career. After that, even the magazine could no longer read about the successes of friends when I said that I made my choice and here I am. Well, this has happened, not bad, but anyway. So I know that young athletes have to make painful choices in their lives about how much they can invest in their careers. Economic issues are one factor in this reflection on sportsmen's choices of life. Of course, many athletes still do a good and well-earned career after their active career, even if in the service of sports organisations, as a coach or in some other profession. However, the reasons for this initiative are strong in that the rule on the funding of sports incomes should be relaxed. The initiative has well compared the situation with the situation of Swedish athletes and their better rights in terms of the funding of sports income. Do we want to give Sweden this kind of competitive advantage? This was indeed such a good bet to compare the Swedes in this competition that immediately rose this kind of rival's blood: it occurred to me that would not be given up here either. By the way, the fact that people have the financial capacity to venture into a full career as an athlete is also important for public health. Our respected and successful athletes act as motivational sources for Finnish fitness and sports, especially for children and young people. Even before the wars, Finnish children ran in sports fields and village tracks inspired by Hannes Kolehmäinen and Paavo Nurmi. And we now have all the new inspirations, for example, we are now awaiting the nomination of the athlete of the Year. So we are a competitive athlete, but we must make sure that we also have those in the future that our children will be able to follow and consider as examples.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u104	Madam President! Representative Skinner's bill is very good and worthy of support. It is true that in Finland, as in the rest of the world of course, the income of athletes is such that when you are young and your career is at its best, you can make a lot of money if you are very successful in sport, and then, when you can fund it rationally, you can take advantage of that accumulated balance at a later age. And if this excellent initiative by Mr Skinner were to succeed and come into force one day in this country, that would of course mean that this person, at best, would provide himself with comprehensive pension provision and would probably remain in this country. At its worst, it usually happens that a top professional athlete goes somewhere to live in a low-tax country and takes the money with him, of course, and then a lot of the experience and knowledge he has gained during his career. I would hope that this issue in this House will now be considered thoroughly. It is unlikely that this parliamentary term will come to that, but this is an excellent initiative. When I guess Mr Skinner's political career is at a good start, but certainly not at the end of it, then I believe that he will have time to take this good thing forward. Then the one thing I think it is worth mentioning in this context is that Finnish envy should be a little more restrained, that if someone happens to succeed in sports and get a little better income, then taxation is not worth driving away from Finland, because the person who succeeds in it would probably then be an inspiration for our younger children to go to sport. It is clear that a very small number of people will become top athletes, but if all children are made to move — play hockey, football, baseball, running, general sports, swimming or anything — it is definitely the best solution for their lives. This bill by Mr Skinner is a matter for the top, a small part, of the great group of sports enthusiasts that has just been mentioned. So here we are not making a huge loophole for Finland's taxation; on the contrary, it would be possible for those people to stay in Finland, so that they would then be here to liven us up and, above all, a good example for younger people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u105	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen, next to me, raised the issue of how we could inspire people to move. In this parliamentary term, we have had a lot of social issues in the debate, but I cannot help but say here that the most important thing is that we make everyone move, because the first thing about reducing social spending is that everyone takes care of their own condition. So we take part in Finland's biggest savings projects and move, and every single initiative that I hear, how we can increase Finnish exercise, I really welcome it and I am happy about it, because we are jointly responsible for how we can move forward here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u106	Mr President! Thank you, colleagues, for your encouragement. I would just like to point out the fact that, although the former hockey player is speaking here — and then, of course, hockey is often the kind that is similar to my initiative, and of course it is true that in the 1990s there was probably Lipponen's number one who started this fundraising activity — and naturally in the Finnish SM league, the average wages are different from those of some other species, but I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that when we talk about cross-country skiing, the top names from the North Karelian region or even the Lapland region, this affects everyone, individual athletes and team athletes, all of us. It is certainly not just a matter of a few types of team, perhaps the most publicised, but of the fact that neither is the long career of the representatives of their individual species and that they can then fund their income and thus plan that time and life after their top sports career.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u107	Mr President! Still not saying: Knowing that Mr Skinner has a strong background in hockey, I understand his point of view that an athlete who is a hockey player, even now, has a huge risk of injury. If you get bad luck and get badly hurt, it may be that the athlete’s career is over in one blink. After all, in such cases, where a person has to quit sports because of the injury, the profession and the incomes and everything goes at the same time. So you're in a zero situation: you're unemployed and you're disabled, which doesn't necessarily help you find a new job. In any event, if this initiative by Mr Skinner, which he has prepared and made very well, were to succeed, that would also mean that if a person goes into sport and gets a nest egg collected there for the remainder of his life, then — and this initiative by Mr Skinner makes it possible — this would act as a kind of assurance for the protection of the life that remains of this person. I don't know how these athletes convince themselves, whether they have accident insurance or some other insurance — I'm sure they will — but they usually cost a lot of money. However, if such a procedure were successful, it would be the best pension provision and, at the same time, insurance cover for this athlete, because, for example, during a ten-year hockey career, if you do well, you can collect a nice, nice amount of money that you can manage at a later date. At the same time, it acts as a kind of pension insurance and accident insurance, which I think is very good. I hope that this initiative will be successful, and I also hope – I would bet that Mr Skinner’s hockey career will be over for the most part – for him, as a hockey player and as a human being, the best success in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u108	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u109	Mr President! On this subject, it is easy to jump into this subject, i.e. a legal initiative to change Article 5 of the Law on the Payment Conditions of Commercial Contracts, because the life of a small entrepreneur is very often a sport, because when contracts are made with larger companies and companies, for example, payment periods tend to be prolonged. It is not unusual for a small Finnish entrepreneur or self-employed person to have to wait for performance, not for 30 days, but for 60 days, even 90 days, or even 120 days. The economy of a small entrepreneur is just like that of any of our private individuals. If there is no money in the cash register, it will be difficult to pay employees, let alone get something. I know something about this because I too have experience of working as a small entrepreneur and then working with big companies, and it is also — I might say and dare say — a rather immoral activity that big global companies keep their money, continue to invest it and only then pay when they think they are paying. All in all, when the Payment Time Act was adopted, the objectives have certainly been good and the contractual relations between traders have been defined as ‘up to 60 days if the parties did not take part in the other decision’. Recent examples have just indicated that some have wanted to agree otherwise or to do otherwise. On the basis of the problems encountered, the Ministry of Justice then clarified the payment periods between companies in the spring of 2014 and their development and the need for changes to the legislation in this area, and this resulted in a change in Article 5 of this Payment Period Act in 2015, which reduced this to 30 days, while maintaining the possibility of otherwise agreeing. In this case, the Ministry of Justice’s solution for payment periods was also examined for the mandatory maximum payment period, but it was abandoned due to opposition from some of the contributors. Mr President! What we have signed, the representatives who have tabled the bill, is that this law should be amended further in order to make it easier for the small entrepreneur's everyday life and the billing life, if you can say so, to be easier and these delays would not occur. In practice, Article 5 of the Act on the conditions for payment of commercial contracts It is proposed that the maximum payment period of 30 days for commercial debt-to-business relationships between goods or services should be converted into absolute terms. The reference to the possibility of agreeing on a longer payment period would be deleted. In such a case, the agreement on a longer payment period would be null and void and instead the 30-day payment period would be respected. This is a big deal for small entrepreneurs, it would be a big thing for us to dare to become entrepreneurs, and this would be a big thing this season for this government to take care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u110	Mr President! I did not know this industry before, but now that I have listened, I am so excited and I am really grateful that there are even some who are raising the issue of micro-entrepreneurships, because who in this society actually defends the position of micro-entrepreneurs? There is no such thing as a big voice group, but the majority of Finnish entrepreneurs are really small, one-person companies. Now that it was shown that ‘if not the parties to the agreement’from the timetable,how many micro-enterprises have then beenin a larger party position? Boy, he's gonna have to do almost what the bigger one says on the side. Today, a significant number of these small, small entrepreneurs are former employees of larger companies, who have now, in one way or another, been subcontracted. In other words, as a small micro-enterprise, they are in practice subcontracting these specific services to this company. And what is this relationship really? They are entrepreneurs, possibly they can do similar business services to others, but they are still very much linked to a larger company, and then larger companies can very much decide whether these micro-enterprises can survive or not. Today's spirit is that we should get business done. There is talk of entrepreneurship and many other small forms of enterprise. But how can we keep these small, small businesses alive? All such small things should now be taken up as a whole, small pieces that we can use to help these really small businesses in life forward. Thank you, Mr Skinner, for this initiative too. We agree on many points, even though there are sometimes compromises on fish issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-16-ps-142.u111	Madam President! Thank you to Mrs Maijala for her excellent speech and for raising this particular problem with regard to smaller subcontractors and the practical problem that exists in today's working life. Of course, I myself do not want to say by name or the combination of letters which do so, but this really affects all sectors very widely, from the food sector to industry, to the ict sector, because, in the final analysis, it is often a large, even global or domestic large, bigger company, even a giant company, that dictates those conditions. They're non-negotiable. For this reason, such a ‘unless it is best to ‘hear’the ‘good’ and ‘will’ of a free contract,the ‘will’,the expression,but this’s a hard-core undertaking
