ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u1	The Parliament has received a special report from the National Audit Office on the audit of the central government's financial statements for 2018 and the Board's annual report (K 13/2019 vp)
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u2	An open letter from the President of the Republic on the change implemented by the Government on 29 May 2019 has been distributed to the representatives and entered in the minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u3	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u4	Mr President! Thank you to the National Audit Office for this special report. I'm gonna make three picks out of it. The first concerns the municipal economy. As we know, the economic situation of municipalities is challenging and the new Government Programme is about to impose heavy additional responsibilities on municipalities. I therefore attach particular importance to this improved and realistic assessment of local government finances as part of public finances. In particular, it is important to recommend that the conditions for achieving the budgetary objective set for local government should be assessed as a whole, taking into account the net impact of the measures taken by central government municipalities on revenue and expenditure, as well as the uncertainty inherent in the estimates. This is a subject of growing concern to municipalities year after year, and a dimension that we must not forget about the sustainability of public finances in this Chamber either. The second point relates to the consideration of long-term effectiveness. The government is found to have largely achieved its objectives excellently or well. However, reporting focuses on monitoring the achievement of the objectives set for the Government term, and in this respect the long-term strategic impact of the Government Programme should be taken into account even more strongly in the review and evaluation process. Here I am looking at the new government program. Its title focuses on social, economic and ecological sustainability. However, the sustainability effects of the measures proposed in the programme, in particular on the economy, are a cause for concern. Similarly, concerns have arisen as to whether the most effective means of achieving the objectives have now been chosen. Good examples of long-term strategic effectiveness and the need to identify it can be found both in major reforms and system reforms as well as in the fact that, for example, young people's exclusion is not only solved through corrective measures, but through long-term policies by supporting children, young people and families in early years and by developing services in the big picture in the direction of prevention and early support. Many of these effects do not appear on an annual basis, or even at the level of the Government Programme or Government term, but the more important it is to try to understand and anticipate developments a little further. Such long-term strategic effectiveness should be further assessed in this context. Thirdly, I would like to touch briefly on the report on sustainable development. Under the leadership of Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo, the current government has also attracted worldwide interest in developing sustainable development budgeting practices. This improved budgeting for sustainable development should also be used to develop the reporting highlighted in this report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u5	Madam President! As an experienced expert on municipalities and cities and their economies, Mr Ikonen gave a good speech on the current situation in our municipalities and cities, and also on what the Rinte government, which is likely to start its work shortly, will be responsible for the municipalities. It is also a matter of concern that the new government believes that the 18 provinces will be capable of being able to bear our social and health services well in the future, while, at the same time, the most recent statistics tell us that a very large proportion of the municipalities will lose the population, that is to say, the population will be reduced, but at the same time more and more regions will lose the population and it is difficult to see that these regions will be able to cope with such heavy tasks in the future. I hope that during this parliamentary term it will not be decided to put a bush in Parliament either from the point of view of the courage to look at the carrying capacity of these provinces. In that, when I read this report, with great interest and satisfaction, I felt that last year we were able to last a long time, for the first time in nearly 10 years, a small amount of central government debt being reduced by various items, but the economy is still not in such a condition that we can afford significant additional rains. And now that the independent experts of the Ministry of Finance have estimated that our economic growth will in fact decline to less than 1% in the coming parliamentary term, Mr President, it seems incredible that the future Prime Minister of the government who will soon begin his work has been building his own government's programme for economic growth of about 2%, when there is no prospect of that, and now that the keg of government programmes has become familiar with it, it seems that there are no medicines available to achieve this growth. Employment measures are quite modest. And yesterday, when the A-Studio was watching on TV, one could only be surprised, for example, at this active-model debate, that it has now been overturned or has it not been overturned.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u8	Why don't we go on the list for a while?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u9	Mr President! The special report of the National Audit Office also provides follow-up on how Parliament's opinions have produced results, and here is a good withdrawal from the Government's report on internal security for 2016. In this respect, Parliament requires that the Government secures the performance of key internal security authorities, namely the police, Border Guard, Rescue Services, Emergency Response Centres, Customs and the Finnish Immigration Service, as well as the appropriate conditions for carrying out the statutory tasks of these authorities, including through a substantial strengthening of the financial basis for these authorities. In this assessment, the Audit Office in particular assesses the state of traffic control which it feels is weak and requires better strategic guidance from the Ministry of the Interior in order to achieve the safety objectives set. This is certainly a very important and concrete issue which must be addressed in the future. At the same time, of course, we have received information about this outcome of the negotiations as a future government programme, and so that, for example, this traffic control, which the Inspectorate is paying attention to here, will of course require the police to do the work. I understand that almost all of us in the parties had a full agreement before the elections that the number of policemen would be raised to 7850, and now that you read about this outcome of the negotiations, it is said here that the number of policemen will be increased by 7500 person years by 2022, so this will now be a little midway. That is why, Mr President, I would like to ask that this resource should be sufficient to achieve these good objectives in itself, as mentioned in the outcome of the negotiations, such as: ‘More government authorities are present and more visible, especially in areas where the level of service is low. The maximum response times for the police are defined for the whole of Finland.” That is a good objective, and I thank you for that, but I would also like to have assurances that this increase in the number of police officers is enough. Is the future government responsible for the safety of the whole of Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u10	Madam President! The Central Audit Office's report is definitely more extensive than just a typical finding of the accuracy of the financial statements. Of course, there is a view here, for example, on the negative legality positions, on the reduction in the number of accounting units left in the class, but in the long run, on how such strategic objectives have been achieved, i.e. on the follow-up of Parliament's positions, on how they have been implemented, and on the other hand, on the social impact data. Of course, it will be difficult in the short term to establish a clear position on these latter, in particular, whether or not the different long-term objectives have been achieved at that stage. As is stated here, these strategic, long-term objectives will then be left unestimated. The fact that we had such a strategic government programme by the previous government certainly makes it difficult, in its own way, to make these assessments, and now the future government is making such a phenomenal government programme. It must be said that there are problems in this phenomenon-based context where, could you say, there is quite a lot of air behind such well-meaning and important goals and words by yourself as to the means by which these goals are to be carried out? It seems, for example, that the financial side is on a particularly frivolous basis. There is a great deal of confidence that economic growth and the world's economic cycles are driving things forward. There is a great deal to be done with employment. I think that certain entries in the government programme are such that they will certainly have to be debated even before we are in the next annual report and think about what they are ultimately meant to be. That is where Mr Heinonen has already brought up this active model, which, in my opinion, has been written in an interesting way. In other words, it is clearly stated that it is these cuttings and obligations that will be addressed at the moment when the tripartite working group has received measures which will have a compensatory effect on employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u13	Mr President! This special report of the National Audit Office assesses, inter alia, the social impact data of the Board of Directors' Annual Report and compares them with the objectives of the Government Programme, i.e. Sipilä's Government Programme, and states that the objectives are to be achieved by: On the basis of Sipilä's Government Programme, it is quite easy to follow the rest, but the long-term objectives are formulated in the Government Programme in such a general way that it is difficult to monitor the achievement of the objectives. These are, of course, very important, because we have so many of those objectives in this future government programme too, and they are indeed long-term objectives. Next week we will discuss this future Rinte Government Programme in more detail, and it will be interesting to consider how, perhaps in a year or two, the National Audit Office will assess the implementation and annual reports of the Rinte Government Programme. There are many good objectives in the draft Government Programme, such as education, elderly services or, for example, the number of police officers mentioned here, but there is great concern that all these promises are tied to positive employment and economic development, which in turn is empty. It depends on the way in which they will be achieved in future negotiations. If the economy and employment do not develop in the desired way, it is also quite unclear in what order these promises will then be broken down, what is to be done and what is not. In that sense, I think that quite a bit of these objectives are on the frivolous side. It is a little difficult — once read through the draft government programme on the evening newspaper’s website —
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u17	Mr President! Here we were discussing the programme of the government likely to be in Rinte. We all know that it will be discussed in plenary next week, and I would indeed advise everyone who wishes to take a position on it to look at the actual text which has been published. [Heckling] As far as the sustainability gap is concerned, I would like to remind you that the sustainability gap is more than just a combination of the money and the money flows that are now immediately visible. The sustainability gap is also a question of how to maintain the ability of older age groups to function as well as possible, so that this kind of heavier need for care then comes as late as possible and that older people are able to work longer than now. It is also how we take care of young people, their education and their faith in the future, so that they do not get out of touch but become people who are able to play a satisfactory role in society in terms of their own wishes and goals and at the same time play their part in building society. The sustainability crisis is also how we respond to major global crises which, at worst, could jeopardise the existence of all humanity and, at the very least, of civilisation, namely the climate crisis and the crisis of biodiversity.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u19	Madam President! The special report of the Finnish Central Government Audit Office on the audit of the central government's financial statements for 2018 and the Board of Directors' annual report is therefore under consideration. The Government’s Annual Report contains information on the state of central government and public finances in accordance with the regulations, but it has taken a position on information content, among other things: ‘It would be useful to deepen information content,in particular in the field of the municipal economy, taxation and State responsibilities and risk description.’ I would like to highlight this section on central government financial reporting, including the tax deficit and then also these risks. In other words, the position here is that the assessment of the tax deficit is important. And that's what it is. The fact that the population is ageing and services are needed has been raised in many speeches. If there are no taxpayers, there is not enough services for all of us. The Annual Report also describes various measures to reduce the tax deficit, but also mentions the need for further information on the effects. Then a very important issue is to create an overall picture of the risks of central government finances and the fact that if the responsibilities of the state go off, then how will these costs be burdened by public finances and the national economy? This has been well thought out here, and it is very important that we complement these presentations more and more with a very clear assessment of the state's development of risk status, because risk analyses are important. It is good that we also know what is going on in the state economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u20	Madam President! In just over a week's time, Tuesday the 18th, there will be another committee seat, and this debate will lead to a lot of work in this Chamber, at least in the Committee on the Future. There was already a debate here on the State Audit Report and the Financial Statements for 2020 and how it has been successful by the possibly future Government of Rinte. I have to say that we do have quite a few Renaissance geniuses in this Parliament because they are able to hold that debate. I can't go that far myself. Madam President! Chelsea Eden Hazard scored two goals in the European League finals and pitched one, but the Coalition Party has been able to do even better in this debate: to do a clean hat trick. On the other hand, there have been concerns about the state of central government finances, how it is maintained and, at the same time, there has been opposition to all tax increases and criticism of the fact that expenditure increases have been too small. Hat trick — congratulations on that. Madam President! Mr Heinonen has continued in this Chamber the very entertaining and analytical debate he has had over the past month on Twitter, together with Mr Satose, in which he has fiercely opposed all the tax proposals put forward by the Assembly itself in its electoral programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u23	Madam President! It is true that I have taken a critical position on certain tax evasions which have also been included in the Convention's tax programme, but here is the problem that you, my dear Social Democrats, have only picked up those tax evasions from our programme. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u24	And then let's go on the list of speakers. Congressman Andersson first.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u25	Mr President! I am one of those representatives who sat many long nights in this Chamber when the active model was being discussed and who raised the problems and concerns that many representatives had about how the active model will affect the livelihood of the long-term unemployed in particular. I am pleased, of course, that these concerns have now arisen — but unfortunately late in the meeting. Of course, it would have been nice to hear such speeches from Mr Heinos when the active model itself was being discussed. However, I can now alleviate Mr Heinonen's concerns and say that the record of the government programme is quite clear on this point: the operating model cutter and the obligations will be lifted.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u30	Then there are two replies, Mr Essayah and Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u31	Madam President! Indeed, I would like to highlight these phenomenal records of the government programme because these wordings may give rise to confusion. I remember the debate on the active model myself — the Christian Democrats had a very balanced view. As such, the activation of the unemployed is important, but we had the same concern as the Left Alliance that people who fall from that sickness allowance, for example, will then be subject to these cuts. In that sense, we have nothing against the fact that these inhumane situations are not being improved, but the problem now is why this has to be recorded in this way in the government programme, that is, is there already, before the government has been able to get together, a pretty big difference of opinion on what has been agreed at the end of the day. If this is a completely zero entry, would it be necessary to:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u34	And then another response, Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u35	Madam President! The present, or future, government is so opposition-friendly that otherwise, in such a good programme of government, we deliberately created some points so that even Mr Heinonen would be found so uncritical in general.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u38	And then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u39	Mr President! We have this special report from the National Audit Office to Parliament on the audit of the central government's financial statements for 2018 and the Board of Directors' annual report. I wish I could read some of the figures here. For us, society knows exactly how much tax we all have to pay, it knows it for its cent. In my opinion, we should be able to read from these accounts and these audit reports how much we have to spend on immigration for our society. Here are sub-headings such as ‘Societal impact information in the Board’s annual report ‘and’Sustainabilityreporting has improved’. For this sustainable development: If we really want sustainable development, we need to read in the future what the cost of immigration to Finland is, whether it is positive or negative. We cannot build anything sustainable if we do not actually bring us the information that these costs or revenues of immigration are. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u40	Mr President! After all, the old people have had such wisdom, that the dog whineeth upon him, wherein the pot is struck. It is a pity that Mr Arhinmäki has just left the Chamber because, of course, I experienced a sting in my heart with regard to this hat trick, but I would have liked to have asked Mr Arhinmäki to find out in more detail how it is possible that, at the same time, the Assembly will be able to ensure that there is no need to tighten taxation and that debt can be slowed down, but that services can also be improved. This will take place through the introduction of employment-enhancing reforms. These reforms have been successfully carried out during the last government period, and now the future government will have a good basis to start off with. I used my own speech because security is a fundamental rock of society. When we have a strong, secure society, we can build it as a Nordic welfare society on the way forward, make versatile contributions to all other well-being too, and that is why I was concerned that the outcome of the negotiations on the Government Programme would only place this increase in the number of police officers. The number of police officers is set at only half of what I understood was that there was a consensus between the parties before the elections. Before the election, we all talked about the number of policemen should be at least 7850. It is now set at a target of 7,500. The direction is right, but the goal is set too low. I urge the future government to take care of the security of the entire country. It is, however, the basic rock of society.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u41	Madam President! I should like to comment on this active model debate, which took place here in the Chamber. Indeed, the future government plans that there should be replacement models so that the active model can be dismantled. I would like to remind you of what was discussed here in Parliament last season. We had an insurance doctor's system under discussion, including a citizens' initiative. The matter was dealt with in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and the joint statement of the committee was that shortcomings in the insurance doctor system will be corrected and the government will submit proposals to Parliament for legislative changes during the spring session of 2020. I hope that this is one thing that can become a replacement model, which means that you are going to take this forward. The reality is that a very large number of people who were targeted by this active model cutter had just aged, perhaps in some way disabled, that is to say he is waiting for the pension decision and fighting there at the wheel of bureaucracy for retirement or not, which means that he is there on the insurance doctor's chipmunk. And it is very important that the situation of those people who are inordinately there and who have been caught up in this cutter should be mapped out. When this report on the report on central government finances refers to this tax deficit, which I also mentioned in my previous speech, it is, of course, everything a and o that jobs are created in order to get taxpayers to Finland. That is something that must be done for all of us in this society and in Finland to get those jobs, and that is a prerequisite for supporting entrepreneurs. Not so much that we wonder where we are going to get the labour force, but where we are going to create those jobs. It is the entrepreneurs who create these jobs, and that is the question. I hope that this matter of the insurance doctor will be resolved as soon as possible and that this matter will proceed as Parliament's will was in a joint statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u42	Madam President! On page 21, the National Audit Office notes that ‘the annualreporting of the strategic government programme covers the objectives set out in the government programme, with the exception In turn, the new Government Programme has listed promises to citizens to reform their policies. One of these is the promise of a long-term policy, which is as follows: ‘We are committed to the long-term objectives and to systematic parliamentary cooperation between the Council of State and the Parliament. By developing new cooperation practices between Parliament and the Government, long-term objectives can be achieved.” In politics, it's always easy to promise on behalf of others. It is easy to promise, on behalf of future governments, that Finland will commit itself to different ten-year targets, for example, and that its objectives will only be met by the next governments. This government has highlighted in particular the different long-term objectives, which in themselves are nothing bad. The concern arises, however, that the Government Programme is not credible in showing how these objectives will be achieved. It seems that outwards the impression is given that the new government is a future-oriented government, whose future promises will, however, be fulfilled by other future governments. We Finns require that, where the previous government failed, i.e. in the reporting of long-term strategic objectives, this new green left government will tell you exactly what its own real contribution has been to achieving the goals that the government has thought to be implemented during several parliamentary periods and what it has promised the citizens. We Finns are particularly interested to know in future government reports how ambitious you have managed to vaccinate Finnish work and entrepreneurship every year with your new climate policy, which gives a competitive advantage to more polluting countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u43	Madam President! That much of the car’s concern — the security situation and the adequacy of the police — is that the police government reports that some 300 police officers are retiring each year and that 400 are completed, and when you consider the time span when the 7850 will be completed, it will go to 2025 with these levels of training and these objectives. In my opinion, that objective of the government programme is entirely realistic and correct in relation to the level of education.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u44	Madam President! I would like to raise a few comments from Parliament, which I believe are just as much a headache for both the government and the opposition, which are part of the follow-up to the National Audit Office. They relate to ict projects and digitalisation, and there are quite demanding statements made here in 2013, inter alia, ‘the Commission requires that the results, costs and productivity gains of all significant projects be assessed as part of the project portfolio monitoring andreported ontheseresults to the Commission’. Now that these future social solutions are yet again ahead of us, we already know from that previous government exercise that these will be one of the most difficult issues in the whole social security solution. In that sense, I believe and I think that, unfortunately, these very expensive, complex and difficult ict projects are still being discussed many times in this Chamber. As a society, we should have reason in the sense that quite a few have the expertise to assess these large entities in order to be able to ensure that these are compatible and, on the other hand, to ensure that different information security, personal data and other matters are properly handled. In that sense, I think that this report by the National Audit Office will certainly have to return to these points more than once, and I hope that Parliament will follow these points in the future, both in the Audit Committee and in this House. Here too, these public procurements have been taken over in connection with the benefits of digitalisation and ict projects. This report of the Audit Office states that ‘the main beneficiaries have been achieved through the Hansel Framework Arrangements’. Well, if I understand correctly, with this provincial solution, which has now fallen, and with this social solution, this Hansel arrangement will also be re-evaluated, which means that this point will certainly have to be reviewed. All in all, these digitalisation projects will certainly be one of the most expensive, major solutions for Finnish society, but, of course, I hope that, if they are actually successful, they will indeed have the opportunity to achieve a great deal of cost-benefits and thus also to make the various stages of work and others more flexible, both on the health care side and certainly on the personal registers and others. I'm sure this is.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u45	Honorable Speaker! That representative, Mr Essayah, made a good point of making use of this digitalisation and the ict side, which we may have been somewhat lacking. This is where digitalisation can be promoted even by increasing the functionality of the Suomi.fi service. These things are being developed in small steps. I must say that there has been a good analysis of the work of the VTV. State accounts for the last year have therefore been prepared in accordance with the law. One big point I made was that, here in the government accounts, profits from other activities had been put at 1,390 million in shares. Therefore, these were not actually transfers of shares, but this pot was simply transferred to another wholly state-owned limited company, I believe, Vake, i.e. these had been calculated as profits in the state accounts, but this was certainly not true. They were stock transfers, no returns. Then, a second comment, indeed, on the positions taken by Parliament: the Government has wanted to promote the 2030 Agenda objectives through public procurement, in other words, to move the bioeconomy and clean technology forward in such a way that public procurement is made in such a way that clean technology is used, but when these procurements are dispersed, as is stated here, the state has not actually managed to use cleantech technology. The reason why I am raising this issue is that the debate on electoral debates very often focused on how Finland should lead the way, so that we can then sell that technology in the future. The fact is, however, that when we ourselves do not really know how to buy and use that technology, it is very difficult for us to sell it. In spite of all the good and fine water technology we have in Finland, we may not have been able to get it out there with the volume we might have. One of these parliamentary positions concerned digitalisation, its promotion, and then there was the observation that police traffic control, its national control, is incomplete. I would like to make one more comment on the state of public finances and, in particular, on local government finances. The overall picture of our local government finances will remain incomplete, and it would therefore be necessary to ensure in the future that the net impact of measures against local government revenue and expenditure is made very clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-04-ps-10.u46	Mr President! Representative for Car and representative for Tynkkynen: I mean, security's a priority, isn't it? This is an important issue, and security is also, of course, much more than the important thing that the number of police officers will actually be increased during the next term of government — and now the parties are making decisions this week that the government will eventually be formed. In some places it may have been a little difficult to follow which government has now been discussed, so it is good to remind you that next week there will be a debate on a possible new programme. Safety is also a real concern that there is no need to worry about whether the money will be enough for food or whether it will be enough to live, and, among other things, there are many solutions to these issues in the forthcoming Government Programme, as well as not to fear that there will be no service for the elderly. There is also a view on these issues from a safety point of view. As far as climate policy is concerned, the fight against climate change is also one of the most important employment policies: building sustainable housing, building tracks. It will also create those jobs. There are many solutions to this too in the forthcoming programme. So I look forward to next week's debate.
