ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u2	Mr President! With regard to this government proposal and the report, there was little intervention at first reading. I myself had an obstacle, so I am actually going to make a brief introduction here. A proposal for a reform of the Communities' sources of income is being discussed. The main content of the amendment is that the Business Tax Act would apply to Community taxation for all purposes except agriculture, which would remain a separate source of income and to which the Agricultural Income Tax Act would continue to apply. Entities whose actual purpose is not the pursuit of business activities would, as at present, be subject to the Business Tax Act only then... [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u5	Mr President! Now, for my part, I will tell you about those statements. This proposal itself is such that we are in the process of adopting it, and there is no further comment to be made on it, but there were a number of things that we felt would require follow-up, and that is why we tabled these statements, because they were not intended to be included in this committee's report. These include not only the SDP but also the names of the Greens, the Left Alliance and the Christian Democrats. In other words, we believe that, as a fundamental reform, this in itself is absolutely necessary, and this has been said for years in itself, and I am sure that, at least in the opinion of some of the experts, this is not perfect, but rather, as is done in part, and that the distribution of income does not in itself go away but changes it in some respects. After all, this committee's report states that the economic impact seems to be rather limited, despite the fact that changes are taking place. On the other hand, the committee itself states that these impact assessments do not take into account the potential behavioural effects of these changes. Since there is no clear explanation as to how this will ultimately affect the revenue of the State or how it can be assessed whether this proposal will possibly give more scope for tax planning and measures of this kind, we therefore put forward a statement in favour of monitoring this issue. The first statement of this objection is: ‘The Board of State shall monitor the effects of the reform on tax planning, the tax base and tax revenue, and report to the municipality and, where appropriate, take steps to strengthen the That was the first one. The second is more about this sort of delimitation, which is why the committee notes that the change in income sources is not intended to affect the practice of Article 55 of the Law on inheritance and gift taxes on the allowance for generational exchange, and therefore the committee does not consider it appropriate to consider the concept of corporate wealth adopted by the Law on inheritance and gift taxes in this context either. All in all, however, the expert reports showed that the change could have an impact on the application of this section and therefore the link between the distribution of income and the threshold for the generational exchange relief has also been highlighted in the case law and, for example, in previous reports by the committee. That is why the second statement concerns this, that it should be clarified how this change will affect generational change situations and then, if necessary, take action. This second statement therefore reads: ‘The Government requires the State Council to follow the interpretation in the tax practice of the company referred to in Article55 of the Law on Heritage and Gifts and the concepts
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u6	Madam President! Mr Kiviranta, President of the Section for Finance, went through this whole very well. And, as the debate on the left-wing opposition also revealed, this is a good and necessary reform and this is what has been expected. This is one measure from our entrepreneurial-friendly government — entrepreneurial-friendly policies and entrepreneurial-friendly measures to strengthen Finnish entrepreneurship. After all, this period has seen a good economic turn for the better. We have an employment rate that has risen to 72%. [Department :Jaylkin! ] It has also been positive that this period has not seen an increase in the tax rate, but in fact the overall tax rate has fallen by 2 percentage points, and it has also supported this positive economic growth. The general government debt ratio to GDP fell a few years ago, and the objective is to end living as a debt in 2020 or 2021. After all, last year we had positive results so that, after ten years of debt, the state did not have to take on any more debt, but last year we were also able to reduce the total amount of debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u7	Mr President! This change in the distribution of income is a welcome reform, and this should be provided for once the committee has gone through this, but at the same time it is certainly necessary to draw attention to the two issues raised by the committee and also to which Mr Viitanen referred earlier. Indeed, it would make sense to act as the opposition parties suggest that these statements should be adopted here as well and that this should be followed up. After all, we do not want this change to have the effect, for example, on tax planning, so that it becomes more widespread and that we would not receive tax revenue and thus reduce our tax base. In that regard, this first proposal for a statement is quite reasonable, that this should be followed up, and then this second one, which was not intended to change the interpretation of Article 55 of the inheritance and gift tax, and that this should not be the case, then it would certainly be sensible to return to this issue and see how that taxation has gone in practice and what has happened. In this respect, Mr President, I support these proposals for statements made by Mr Viitane.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u8	Mr President! You could say to Mr Räsänen that, of course, there is a need to monitor the impact of the law and that is already normal official work, and it is good that attention is paid to it. But the good news is, on the other hand, that the motion is unanimous. After all, in this parliamentary term taxation has been stable and predictable, which I think is very important from the point of view of people, businesses. The overall tax rate has also fallen as GDP increases. I think it is a good idea to move on from this in a moderate manner. But we have to avoid getting shot. Now I see that there are quite a number of times when different taxes are being abolished from different quarters, and yet when we have to be able to use the fiscal margin for income tax, for the tax reduction of labour, we also need to act with restraint in order to maintain the balance of the public sector. This proposal has long been wanted and is now being implemented. In this way, the government's tax policy is also active. It could also be said that this is where tax bureaucracy gets a little lighter. Of course, you can come to a new place when you have to draw boundaries. But with everything I'm doing, I'm moving this show forward with a positive mind.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u9	Mr President! This change in the distribution of income in the referral debate is a good reform of principle, which, as has been said, has been carefully prepared, and the KD Parliamentary Group also supports the adoption of the proposal without amendment, in line with the arguments put forward by the committee. However, some points were raised in the expert hearings, which is why I believe that two questions raised by the committee would require follow-up in order to take further action if necessary. I therefore believe that it would be helpful if the Government were to report on the impact of this change on Parliament and, if necessary, take measures to tighten up the tax base and clarify the legislation in relation to what was mentioned in the statements. As far as business taxation is concerned, it has always been better, but I am sure we will have to be honest with you that not all things have gone quite as they have in Strömsö in recent years. Tax leakage has continued to occur in tax havens, and even then it will have to be dealt with through legislation. It may also be useful to note here that if these changes are to be harmed, then more specific measures should be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u10	Mr President! The Government's proposal is a good one, and it increases the pro-business, investment and entrepreneurial spirit in Finnish taxation. The current distribution of income from corporate taxes in taxation is exceptional internationally. It has been exceptional for us to see that another source of income has been profitable and taxed, and another source of income has been loss-making, and it has not been possible to deduct it directly from the other, even though it is capital income. This is true of Article 42a(2) of the EVL, where assets of other assets have been added to the source of the business. The section dealt with this issue and it came to the conclusion that there would be a reasonable result, although there would still be a few problems. Of course, monitoring the effects of this law is important and will certainly be done within the framework of official responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u11	Madam President! The Finns also agree with the adoption of this bill and consider it quite appropriate and necessary. Our signature is not in these statements of objection. I would understand that it was a bit of a technical reason when the presentations were born at a very late stage, not in the section, but after that, and there was not enough opportunity to do so on that schedule. This has happened before. I remember that when a couple of weeks ago there was a question about the issue of state participation by municipalities in the cultural field, we apparently got the same kind of mistake or a procedural problem. But let us not dwell on the past, but let me just say briefly that the Finns of Peru support these statements. This monitoring in both respects, the monitoring obligation in both statements to the government and the provision of information to Parliament, is appropriate. These are important issues and there is always something new to be developed along the way that needs to be addressed. They are often found here in the parliamentary process, then through it, when, in general, government proposals do not necessarily cover all the problems that arise in the field of taxation, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u12	Madam President! Twenty years ago, when I had a business in Sweden, there were quite a number of discussions about this different income tax, which in Sweden was about what is now being decided here, actually even more extensive. I followed that conversation. In Sweden, it was estimated that the change made there would lead to an increase of some 30,000 companies. So a very significant number of small companies were created because of this change. In the debate here, attention has been paid to the taxation of state income in the form of corporate or corporate incomes, but it is absolutely essential for the tax revenue of the State how many of these companies are, or will be, employees. The State receives at least 10 to 20 times the income tax paid by the company in the form of wages and salaries tax. Moreover, it comes before the company makes a first cent or euro profit. It's front-loaded. From the point of view of central government finances, it is an excellent way to collect taxes for the state. This Finnish estimate is too often based on one tax category without realizing that they have a strong correlation. And very often, the tax paid by the company alone is regarded as not taking into account the fact that the State receives a significant share of the increase in the income generated by the company’s staff, which is paid in wages and salaries, in all situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u13	Honorable Speaker! Indeed, in this case, the government is now tackling the problem that has been going on for about 20 years, that is, this distribution of income for the communities so that the loss of another source of income can be deducted from the profits of another source of income. In other words, this has been discussed in many committees for a very long time. We have to thank the government for this now. Not all major reforms appear to be ready during this parliamentary term. The economic impact of this is rather limited, around 13 to 16 million. However, we must also thank the SDP for its protest and for the two statements contained in it, which must be supported, in particular, by the first proposal for a statement, that it should be considered in the future how changes in behaviour in this law will then have an impact on the economic impact of their growth — especially as it is recognised that even the share losses are now possible to be reduced more widely. In this respect, we must thank both the opposition and the government for this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u14	President! Indeed, it is also for this reason that we see the need to make a statement of this obligation to monitor, because it is precisely because these estimates in euro, which have been presented, are static and do not take account of the behavioural impact. I do want to apologise if you have stayed in such a way that there has perhaps not been enough time for the Finns of Peru so that the names could have been objected. But what is, let us say, positive on this point is that, when we vote, it will of course be possible to vote in favour of that statement, and I believe that this will be the case — without, of course, interpreting your final solution here, without interfering with it. President! Yes, when I was sitting in that tax section, I myself had the impression that, even at that stage in the section, we were already proposing that such changes and statements should be made, and we were hoping for broad support for them, as these could have been well-known to the committee as a whole. That is not what we received, and then, with at least one of my fellow Members, we said that we should certainly think about protesting in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u15	Madam President! The public debate often asks what is meant by the line of work on which the coalition speaks a lot and which has also taken place in the policy of the Sipilä Government. Above all, it means that reforms are being made on the tax side, for example, which promote entrepreneurship, promote work, encourage work. Here we are dealing with one tax change that strengthens the conditions for entrepreneurship, which is widely desired in the entrepreneurial field and is now being done. The changes made to the taxation of employees during this period are also very important. It has been possible to reduce the taxation of earned income and thus to encourage work more strongly. So the work line works and the results speak for themselves. There is no need to argue about how much more than 100,000 new jobs are due to the current government and how much is the increase in international economic conditions. It is sufficient to note that a significant proportion of the more than 100,000 new jobs created are the result of this government policy, including the Competitiveness Pact, and this is significant. And it is important that whatever the outcome of the elections, this line of work should also be continued during the next parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u16	Madam President! While here a little bit of this discussion expanded to the side of this kind of general tax policy, let's just say that fortunately, however, there are alternatives. In other words, each opposition party has its own views on the Gini line of taxation, and I think that the SDP has a good view that we can build this tax equation more fairly today. After all, we would be taking less tax from a low-income, middle-income wage and pensioner than the government proposes. Instead, we would shift the tax focus so that the most well-paid would pay a little more and that some more taxes could be paid on capital. The same is true, for example, for these large foreign investors, of this withholding tax proposal. We have many such alternative proposals, but I have opened this now only because, when the government parties here are highly praised for their own policies, we have put forward our own options. And, in fact, it must be said from some of these government proposals — when the representative said, among other things, that these tax proposals play an important role in employment and job creation — that, after all, we have had many debates here that some of these government proposals did not, according to the government's own assessment, bring employment and jobs. Let us take the example of this tax reduction of millions of heritage or the tax reductions of large forest holdings. According to the government's own proposal, they have not as such had an impact on employment. And here we have been very critical and on the other line.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u17	President! When this went a little more general, I would like to say that this proposal really is in line with the tax policy that needs to be pursued: stability and predictability. I have noticed how the opposition, the opposition to the SDP, has already made four tax papers public.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u20	Mr President! I decided to stick to this business taxation in this case when it was precisely the reform of capital taxation. Yes, I would say that the government's line during this tax period has been quite consistent in the fact that efforts have been made to achieve the same level of taxation for work and entrepreneurship as in our rival countries and to obtain more jobs. Now, of course, there are also ideas of this kind that entrepreneurs should be taken away from something, for example during this parliamentary term, this entrepreneurial reduction, and that it finances some others.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u21	Madam President! International tax competition cannot be prevented. Even if the European Union could perhaps do so if the Treaty were amended, international tax competition would remain. The trend is moving rapidly towards supporting businesses by reducing taxation — I think that in 20 to 30 years’ time it will only be a negligible part of the tax revenue of the State. The interesting news of last week in relation to this same issue was the Latvia's preliminary ruling that they will move to the Estonian tax model, which means that, in the absence of the company's owners, the State will not tax it either. The starting point is that this will speed up employment and, above all, business growth. In this domestic tax debate, I would like to remind Mr Viita of the greatest injustice, which is the tax exemption for general interest organisations, mainly workers' organisations, including investment activities, which I find completely incomprehensible — I have not found. I generally regard interest groups as non-profit-making, but rather as non-profit organisations.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u22	To this, it is good to continue, Mr President, that we hope that the Assembly will also support the SDP's proposal for large-scale investments to be subject to withholding tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u29	Madam President! Was it the case that Mr Viitanen said not to take the shot? I guess that's right.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u32	Let us remain on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u33	Madam President! I would expect real patience now from the social democrats in these hilarious promises that you have made throughout this last year, actually since the last May. There have been billions of spins, and the financial aspect has been rather light. I don't know where that money comes from for all those purposes. You have promised pensioners — all right, I am in favour — you have promised development aid and you have promised a great deal of health and education. Unbelievably good projects, but tell us where the funding comes from, quite openly and honestly. You cannot take away from entrepreneurs what they are able to pay without employment collapsing and failing as it did during the last parliamentary term. Mr President! We should bear in mind such a very simple basic rule of taxation on what is necessary for society — work and enterprise and living and moving for us — and more rigorously on what is not necessary and therefore not necessary for us. For example, there are forms of consumption in which taxation can be tightened, provided that the part of those who do not have the ability to pay taxes is taken care of. Such an easy basic rule should be the basis when it comes to taxation. Mr President! If these promises from the Social Democrats were actually implemented, our tax rate would increase considerably, and it would certainly be negative in many ways in this economy. There is absolutely no reason to do that. Fortunately, if you win the election, you will not be able to create a government in this country alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u34	Mr President! Just a brief comment: Mr Zyskowicz, I do not doubt that the assembly will have a relatively sensible tax line, but when I read the Web News, which is a good magazine, there has already been a promise to abolish the tax on transfers of funds, there has been a proposal to abolish the inheritance tax and gift tax, perhaps by individual Members, and there has been talk of abolishing the car tax, and when these add up, billions have been mentioned. Then there is the taxation of labour. Somehow you have to be synchronized with these Network News news and its lines. That's what I'm hoping for. Then, President-in-Office, I understand that there is also an important large tax base and low tax rates in investment activities — and we can then find out whether there are gaps — but I understand that the SDP line would also tax investment in employment pension companies, and I would warn you about that, because we are also going to have access to our pension funds.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u35	Mr President! I don't know if I should be worried about this right now. I was thinking of taking the same speech as Mr Ala-Nissilä's speech, which was about three-quarters. So I had thought to say this truth, that sometimes I read Online News, which is a good magazine — you are, by the way, another representative who says it in the Chamber, and I was sometimes the first one to say it — and yes, according to the Online News, this is exactly what has happened to the promise to abolish the tax on the transfer of funds, which, as I recall, will cost 700 million, and indeed it will be tossing these car taxes, not to mention income tax reductions, and it has already been calculated that the tax reduction promises of the collection will be billions. Then, of course, in the interests of fairness, I insist that we also be told how to secure welfare services and others if we go ahead and promise. But, President-in-Office, we have balanced proposals, as we know. We have the options calculated in the alternative budget in a responsible way. There is also revenue for the expenditure we are proposing, and the economy is in balance. We would take debt through our equations even less than the government. And especially now I want to stress that I think it is actually quite ferocious, that if the SDP wants to change certain things for today and one of those things is that pensioner poverty must be tackled once and for all, and we are putting forward measures, how, then there will be a lot of criticism here that this is a hilarious promise and a complete populism, and then it will be said in the same breath that I too am in favour of it, but the Social Democrats do not have the money for it. Then, if it is worth it, then we will support it and find the money, and that is how it should go, Mr Kankaanniemi. Yes, I am very strict here, because I do remember that, this season, the main government party from the centre has also been in the ranks of the centre every summer, even from a high point of view, these speeches, that we now need to take action to reduce pensioner poverty, and then, when it comes to autumn and the press of the hall button, there is not a single position in favour of these very values. That is why I also call on the government parties to be responsible for their own speeches and promises.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u37	Madam President! I understand that there are electoral promises in America, that there is some way that they can be carried out — there is a two-party system. But in Finland you can get these election promises from anyone, they have no margin, no margin, because there is a government and a government programme and this is a multiparty system. But each party can have its own goals. We need to talk about goals, not promises. One problem that I really think exists is that when the international financial and capital markets are open and our neighbours have no inheritance tax — neither in Estonia nor in Sweden — this may gradually lead to the departure of capital from Finland through different mechanisms and tax planning. That's why you can't really start to tax these capitals here. And now we have an investment account that is intended for ordinary families and ordinary people, with an upper limit of EUR 50000. Let us go a little in the direction that Sweden has — this investment park, which has gained great popularity. Mr Viitanen, you are dealing with the right thing, pensioner poverty. At the meeting, we have now said at the mouth of Petteri Orpo that we really need to see whether there has been such a thing in this society that the prices that are important to pensioners who consume or buy have risen so much in recent years that they should have their own index. It is not a promise if you promise that this matter will be clarified and discussed. And we know by looking at Statistics Finland’s statistics — for example 2016, for which it is the last statistics — that if we compare, the employee will spend 100 units and the pensioner will spend 121 units on housing and 194 units on health care. This will bring us a little closer to what has happened here. And when we look at health care and housing, I am sure that these figures are no longer true today because they have risen again. So it is no wonder if someone starts — not just a pensioner — being in a bit of trouble with paying these bills. This is the right thing to do, and this must be taken seriously by all parties, even after the elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u38	Madam President! Economic, financial and fiscal policies are always linked together. During this parliamentary term, the current government was able, you may say, to manage the bankrupt state and public finances. This was a so-called EUR 10 billion sustainability gap problem, which has been vigorously dismantled. War reform is still waiting for its time, and how its solutions will then appear in the longer term is another question. But it must be remembered that, whenever we talk about tax policy, even if it is the case today, it is a whole in which society will then safeguard the important services that we have on the foundations and foundations of the welfare society. In particular, tax policy should be very long-term and not variable in terms of electoral periods. It is understandable, of course, that there will be new priorities and perspectives. During the Sipilä government, there has also been resuscitation. It has been asked whether it has been wrong to revive, but the conditions for consumption have also been created for households, and this consumer demand has also played a very important role in this rise in Finland, where the employment rate target of 72 per cent has been achieved and even exceeded slightly. These are positive things, and that is why it is also important for the business community to be able to rely on Finland. Yes, trust in Finland’s economy has been a very big thing when, for example, investments in our shipbuilding industry or in the automotive industry started in Finland. And this has been seen throughout Finland. In other words, international trust in Finland has been restored, and it has also been one part of the taxation policy of this Sipilä Government, which has been jointly implemented by the Government. The amount of spices that each party brings to the table in the run-up to the elections, then let the voters be able to resolve. I believe in those who do not make false promises.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u39	Mr President! I understand that this proposal on the table has been accepted here in general with the additions that Mr Viitane has made in his contribution. But now that we are discussing taxation more broadly, we must remember that it is a welfare state and its ability to provide services to its own citizens, especially those with the lowest income. In other words, the fair collection of taxes and the provision of services to those who need them is a key social guideline for the social democrats. It was suggested that we have over-substantial proposals in our own alternative budget on the potential yield from the grey economy. Every time you hit it, there will be new sources of income, — the last time you've talked about this Esperi Care. Those millions, tens of millions, possibly hundreds of millions, placed through tax haven companies are those who are absent from the construction of the Finnish welfare society, and now we have actually seen from the companies’ balance sheets what kind of tax trickling is taking place there. These are the things we must really be concerned about, and we must also see to it that the services provided by the welfare state to its citizens do not make any profits, at least to this extent, as has now been brought before us in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u41	Madam President! Tax predictability is the most important thing for companies, and it makes no sense for us to change taxation quickly. I see, however, that all Finnish responsible companies, small and medium-sized enterprises and probably even large companies are taking care of their taxes and business. Of course, this society has changed itself, and there will be new venture investors, and there will always be a small risk, admittedly, of how to deal with these matters. One example is how employment in Finland can be further improved by various means. Taxation is, of course, a good starting point. The second is that our TyEL payments have been made in such a way that if the salary sum exceeds a certain limit, then the TyEL contribution will rise. This has led to large companies chaining their works, chaining their jobs, making smaller TyEL payments, but the big risk is that the grey economy will increase. In other words, in some way the creation of jobs is not appreciated, and there is certainly a lot to be done here. The experts have pointed out, among other things, today in the Committee on Audit that, even in good times, economic buffers should be built, and that is certainly a good starting point. Taking a debt may be quite easy, but it should not be too easy, because you always have to remember that it sometimes has to be paid off. There must be such a consistent economy, and in this reign it has been, can be said so. I don't know if this was one of the indicators, now that this Good Country index, where Finland was identified as the number one country in the world. We have handled our own affairs very well, and that is how we have become number one on the list. And I think one thing is that there has been a policy to anticipate, people have been employed and people have tried to apply for growth in many different ways, standards have been dismantled and so on. In other words, we are on the right track and it is very important that we do not go poking around in this policy. One good starting point is, of course, that the people will then vote for this same coalition in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u42	Madam President! Fortunately, the people are queen, and then let's see what the people say. But also because the people are in a position to make these decisions when they walk up there on the urn, it is important that these differences of approach are broken down in this Chamber as well and that we discuss what we disagree with about these views. By the way, I would like to point out that Mrs Myller has made an excellent speech and I believe that we will come back to this once again, that it is not right for all services to go to individual companies in a market society that is run by the government today. Then, apart from these tragic cases of poor care, there is also the possibility of these tax planning measures. No one understands this kind of thing. I think that Mrs Myller has just made a point when she raised this issue here too. It can be viewed from a number of angles, but also from this tax perspective and from a tax planning point of view. But, President-in-Office, I actually asked for this speech because here Mr Eestilä — I think I am right, thank you — was the same as the Social Democrats on the principle that something must be done about pensioner poverty. Your method has now been in the public domain, i.e. the voting rights, this own index for pensioners, which you put forward for clarification. Why not, but I also remember seeing an article in Helsingin Sanomat that told me that this own index was the pledge of the collection 12 years ago. That is, even then, the Coalition Party promised the same thing, i.e. it was in the election goals and electoral programmes then. In other words, recycling is likely to be fashionable when these same objectives are repeated. I'm asking in a constructive way, even if this is what we're trying to figure out. I'm sure we need to look at who we are. But once we have put forward a concrete proposal, as Social Democrats, that we should gradually increase the income of less than 1,400 pensioners who earn less than EUR 100, would it not be easier for the other parties and would it not be good for them to take up this motion by President Rinte instead of, quite often, being knocked out and stamped with what kind of words? However, if we are all for the cause, would it not be quite easy to take at least the route we present that would affect our livelihood here and now? I'm sure that would be an effective measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u43	Madam President! Congressman Viitanen, it's a little difficult to go to that kind of auction. If you think that if you were to raise your pension by EUR 100, what would you do if you were to raise your expenses by EUR 150 during that period? It's getting worse, isn't it? It's getting worse for pensioners. That is why we have shown in a slightly different way the subject of this review. We need to see how the charges for services actually used by pensioners increase. Adding money to a plane won't do anything if you have to take more out of it. Its net impact is negative. That's why we really need to look into this. This Parliament will not be able to get away from the debate on pensions, nor will it be able to escape the pension issues that you have raised — and those that we have raised too — because the citizens' initiative on the 50-50 index is coming here, and it will have to be carefully considered here, and the time will tell us what the measures are. But if we do not carefully reflect on these issues, which is the taxation of pensioners, which is the real cost structure for pensioners, how prices for different kinds of goods are rising, then we will be left without serious information. You can't make decisions. At this stage, without an in-depth study, I find it quite impossible to go out and present some bids for auctions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u44	Mr President! As I said, the assembly presented this same motion 12 years ago. Of course, it should have been thoroughly clarified in this time period, but I am not against looking at these things. On the contrary, I think it is good. But, in fact, my question was directed elsewhere, that is, that we have a proposal which, in concrete terms, improves the amount left in the wallet here and now, in other words, increases our fight against pensioners' poverty. As I recall, this proposal would remove nearly 100,000 pensioners from pension poverty. I think it is an important proposal. I would like a concrete answer to this, why this cannot be addressed. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u46	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 29/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u47	Madam President! This government proposal proposes to introduce a law on the promotion of the use of biofuel oil. Part of light fuel oil intended for heating, working machinery and stationary engines should be replaced by biofuel oil as from 21 C.E. In 2028 the distribution obligation would be 10%. The proposal also proposes to amend the Law on the Promotion of the Use of Biofuels in Transport to strengthen the distribution obligation from 21 C.E. In 2029 the distribution obligation would be 30%. The proposal is based on the main guidelines of Finland's energy and climate policy, which are included in the national energy and climate strategy. These guidelines are based on objectives and framework conditions that follow national contexts, instruments at EU level and international climate policy. In the energy and climate strategy, the objective of halving greenhouse gas emissions from transport by 2030 will become central. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy believes that the proposed distribution obligations are an effective and rapid way of contributing to the achievement of the emission reduction targets. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs agrees with the basic idea of the proposal that ambitious biofuels obligations can create incentives for the development and production of biofuels and related investments. In its opinion on the proposal, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has drawn attention to the environmental impact of biofuels on the raw material base. The use of abundant domestic forest biomass may also have negative effects on Finland's carbon sink, especially if biofuels are produced from other domestic forest-based biomass than residues and waste from the forest industry. This underlines the need for circular economy thinking, the desire to direct valuable raw materials to high value products and the importance of a technologically neutral approach. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy draws attention to the uncertainties surrounding the cost implications of the proposal. In its opinion on the proposal, the Committee on Transport and Communications has also drawn attention to the fact that uncertainties regarding, for example, baseline values and future price developments and availability of advanced biofuels make it difficult to assess the cost impact of the proposal. This is also linked to the consumer impact of the proposal and the need to promote climate-friendly heating solutions and, for example, the abandonment of oil heating, as outlined in the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection referred to above. However, it is important to pay particular attention to non-combustion-based low-emission heating solutions. At the same time, energy correction or fund schemes for low incomes should be evaluated. The proposal for a decision of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is that Parliament approves the government proposal as amended from 1 to 3. a draft law. This report contains two objections, despite the attempt to incorporate and incorporate the text of the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u48	Mr President! Transport is an important factor in Finland's emissions and it is necessary to reduce emissions from transport. They can be achieved by reducing the need for transport through land use and planning, by changing operating practices and habits, and through efficient logistics, by shifting transport over short distances to pedestrians and cycling, by increasing public transport and rail transport, by more energy efficient and less-emission vehicles, as well as by electrification of transport and the use of biogas, and in particular by means of the blending obligation now under discussion in the near future and sustainable biofuels. Mr President! The obligation to mix biofuels is in itself a good thing. However, in order not to overly tie Finland to biofuels considered to be partly over-expenditure technology, it is necessary to keep the range of means open in order to create opportunities for the development and exploitation of new technologies and to ensure genuine emission reductions. The blending obligation and biofuels are therefore not a silver bullet in transport emission reductions. Although the proposal is necessary in itself, it is important that Finland does not bet too heavily on biofuels until 2030 on the range of means to reduce emissions from transport, when we do not have full confidence in the price development of biofuels, the availability of sustainable raw materials, the development of technologies and the actual net emissions impacts of the biofuels strategy. As the Committee on Transport and Tourism states in its opinion, increasing the use of biofuels can only be a limited part of the transport emission reduction solution. Sustainablely produced and cost-effective fuel bio-raw materials are side streams and waste from industry, agriculture, forestry and communities, which should be maximised but with limited quantities. The use of crops or a strong increase in the use of forests only for biofuel production should be treated with reservations, ensuring that the reduction of greenhouse gases throughout the life cycle of biofuels is achieved. The reduction of carbon sinks is considered to be an additional emission and the addition of biofuels must not lead to the risk of carbon sinks being compromised. Attention must also be paid to ethical and other environmental aspects. It is not ethically sustainable if biofuels are produced from raw materials that are suitable for food and, for example, when raw materials are grown, carbon sinks of rainforests are destroyed. Responsibility issues must also be taken into account if biofuels are imported into Finland from abroad. Mr President! It is also essential to monitor the availability and price of biofuels. Market developments and the global situation have an impact on availability and price. Biofuel markets are only at their origins and the majority of EU countries do not yet have a concrete policy on the objectives and promotion of advanced biofuels. Sustainable biofuels are not enough for the whole fleet of vehicles, and there is also demand for them on the side of air transport. The need for traffic must therefore be reduced and the renewal of the fleet of vehicles should be speeded up so that the fleet will become more electrified and run on biogas before 2030. In the long term, liquid biofuels should increasingly be diverted to heavy goods vehicles and air transport. Mr President! Given the uncertainty surrounding future developments, a clear assessment point should be set for the distribution obligations, which would impose obligations for the coming years on the basis of developments and needs that have taken place up or down. Parliament should clearly indicate that the blending obligations will be reviewed and, if necessary, corrected during the period of validity. There is a boost in this respect, in line with protest 1. The objection was rejected because we did not get the impetus in the report and the difference between the emphasis and the explanatory statement is significant: the effort is binding, the explanatory statement is only Parliament's thinking. Mr President! The second step of the objection relates to the issue of renewable synthetic biofuels, which in itself have been well taken into account in the text of the report. Mr President! The third pony, on the other hand, has to do with oil heating. There are still about 190,000 oil - heated detached houses in Finland. The distribution obligation is insufficient to reduce emissions from heating. A programme of measures is needed to speed up the energy renovations of oil-fired houses. Parliament should define measures to speed up energy renovations and a target timetable for switching to alternative forms of heating for oil heating. Although the replacement of an oil boiler is generally already economically viable at present, support for heating renovations is needed, particularly for low-income and elderly self-inhabitants with very limited capital. Support for energy renovations must therefore be provided on a social basis, so that individual people do not incur excessive costs for the renovation of the heating system and that energy renovations and replacement of oil boilers can proceed as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u49	Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u50	Madam President! This proposal by the central government to tighten up the obligation to mix biofuels has long been expected and is very appropriate. If we look at the European and global framework of reference, how we would be able to reduce emissions most quickly, then, of course, in the existing fleet of cars, increasing the obligation to mix is one of the most effective things that has been taken into account in the past, when Finland was in the forefront of this issue in the European Union in Vanhanen's second term. It is very important to remember that – as I remember – there is some kind of mixing obligation in some 20 European Member States and that Finland is, of course, there on an ambitious scale, because we have developed technology and we have knowledge of it and we have already been able to create markets. And if you look at areas where public transport has already moved to renewable fuels, for example, Finland’s Neste, California, the United States of America, seems to be one of the largest markets. If we want to quickly calculate emissions and the use of fossil fuels, however, getting rid of it is the common great goal, then things like this blending obligation are quite good. Of course, we must remember that this is one part of the big picture. Just the same way that this government has for the first time written in strategies, as have the resources of the state to electrify, for example, the car fleet and the distribution network in the case of gas and electricity. But it is also important, of course, that when we live in a country with long distances and one of the oldest car fleets in Europe, everyone can also participate in that work against climate change. If I could take it out there. In Lapland, under an electric car in these frosts, it would not get much further than a mailbox from there. Not that there is a network yet, nor that technology has yet become so advanced or so accessible to Finnish conditions at people's income levels. And this must not become something that only the wealthy and the well-off can contribute to combating climate change, but that all people must have the opportunity to do so. In addition, I think it makes sense to note that if we want to reduce these emissions quickly, it will then be quite difficult to send a signal to the industry that we will look at this in a few years' time when we are taking decisions of hundreds of millions of euros. It is very important not only for the car fleet but also for air transport to move towards renewable kerosene, but also for heavy traffic.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u51	Madam President! Indeed, we are dealing with the issue of promoting the use of biofuels. An excellent proposal from a good government. Of course, we have the underlying instruments of the EU and the way in which we will meet the EU's future obligations by 2030. Indeed, this includes increasing the percentage of biofuels in transport to 30%, but also the partial replacement of heating and machinery fuels with biofuel oil, 10%, by 2030. This is an excellent proposal, and I think this will also provide the basis for the perspective on how we can start producing, innovating new biofuels, and then give certainty to industry to go ahead and invest in them. So this is long-term thinking. I personally see this domestic share of the distribution obligation as one important issue. We have also talked a lot about the Nordic distribution obligation, and I would hope that this will also be achieved through equal rules. And, as has been said in our expert hearings, the market is up to the United States. Also, with the inclusion of biofuels in air transport, I would see that investors should start making new biofuels. Of course, there is always a question of price and availability when new things start to be raised, and who will start to move in it. Indeed, this proposal also deals with the issue of oil heating, the heating solutions of our 190 000 oil heating buildings, but I personally do not see any point in using biofuels themselves, which are highly refined, but in seeking other possibilities for heating buildings. I personally see liquid biofuels as a priority for these transport solutions. We share this commitment here in the text that we must take into account the low-income — and we hope that this too — and that energy compensation subsidies or fund schemes for them should also be developed so that these buildings can also be converted into non-fossil fuels. In the committee, much was said about the word ‘bio’,but in the case of time and expert consultation,the word ‘renewablefuels’ came up,that is to I myself have visited, for example, this kind of Carbon Recycling International in Iceland, which uses hydrolysis to turn sulfuric water into methanol, which is delivered to Belgium as a fuel additive. I see that these hydrolysis-type, perhaps synthetic fuels are second-generation good fuels, for which we use only renewable energy, and that is how I see that our future internal combustion engine technologies have a long life cycle. In my view, it is not just a question of these being the solutions of the transitional period, but if we allow the new liquid fuels of the second generation to develop, then they will still have a long life cycle, including synthetic fuels based on biogas, ammonia, hydrogen and so on. Checkpoints were also sought here. I personally see that there will be checkpoints here when we come on 31.12.21 to review the RED directive and, at the latest, to see if we can add more of these synthetic fuels to this journey. Finland should ensure that renewable fuels, including other renewable fuels in addition to biofuels, can then be included in this RED II listing. In other words, all good and, as has been said here, this is one of the solutions to transport fuels. We have other solutions, as has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u52	Minister Tiilikainen has asked to speak. - Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u53	Mr President! Thank you to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for dealing with this important issue of climate policy and putting it into the package. Reducing emissions from transport is a very important part of our climate policy and the Government's plans to reduce emissions from transport by a variety of means. Promoting public transport, walking, cycling is one way, more energy efficient vehicles is another. In electric cars, the target is 250,000 electric cars in 2030, 50,000 biogas cars and so on, but by far the fastest way to reduce transport emissions is to mix renewable fuels with transport fuel products that go to all vehicles that currently move on our roads. It is precisely this speed of emission reduction that has recently been pointed out, that we are in a hurry with climate action. In 2017, Finland reduced its greenhouse gas emissions most in the EU, and this is largely due to the significant increase in the share of renewable fuels in all transport fuels in 2017. EU legislation provides the basis for this. It is often a matter of concern that renewable fuels are sustainable. Well, that is precisely why it is absolutely necessary and important for the EU Renewable Energy Directive to define and set precise sustainability criteria, according to which substances entering these markets must, of course, be produced in order to genuinely produce greenhouse gas emission reductions. After all, around 600000 to 700000 tonnes of renewable fuels are currently being produced in Finland. In practice, almost that current production would be enough if it were all used in Finland, in 2029 to meet this 30% distribution obligation, but since the market for products is global, the majority of these products produced in Finland are currently exported elsewhere. Well, now, of course, the domestic market is growing significantly, and the raw material base is different types of waste, residues and by-products. No one puts serious plans on the basis that somehow that is capable of going down and then turning it into renewable fuels. The RED II directive also includes synthetic renewable fuels, and the committee has dealt with them with merit in drawing up the report. And that marching order probably makes sense so that we expect the definitions of these synthetic fuels to be clarified and the emission reduction calculations to be clarified, and after the implementation of this RED II directive in Finland in the next few years, we will, as far as possible, complete this range of products that can fulfil this distribution obligation, because these some synthetic fuels are very promising inventions. Finland is often compared with other Nordic countries. They say we have a different strategy. Well, it is true that Norway has strongly supported the use of electric cars, but it does not eliminate the fact that there are also very ambitious biofuels targets in Norway. I don't care about Sweden. Sweden is likely to use significantly more renewable fuels in 2030 than Finland. In this respect, the Nordic countries are well on the same foot in this reduction in transport emissions. It has also been discussed whether Finland is now betting on the wrong horse. Finland is not betting on this, but Finland is introducing all the means to reduce emissions from transport, and renewable fuels are the fastest way. In fact, the companies that have invested in renewable fuels in Finland do not have to bet in this Chamber, namely that these companies are always valued by the market at the share price. Perhaps our most famous company in this area is that state company Neste — its share price has increased fivefold during this term of government. State ownership has increased by several billions of euros. I do not believe that investors have traditional oil refining in mind, but precisely this knowledge in renewable fuels. That's why investors value that knowledge. Thank you once again to the committee. This is a significant stake. Now we have investment certainty for companies, we have predictability. We know how the emission reductions in transport will proceed. And it is natural that when more information is added, then of course every good government will continue to be prepared to file laws if the need arises.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u54	Let's go to the debat. This obviously sparked a debate, so I would ask those representatives who want to participate in the debate to stand up and press the V button. - Let's get started.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u55	Madam President! The government is on the right track, literally, when it comes to increasing the share of biofuels. It is a climate issue, but it is also an economic issue. The more we are able to replace imported energy, it is always in the interests of Finland, every euro at a time, and that too must be taken into account. Of course, the Government’s goal of becoming a power of biofuels is an interesting perspective, and as the Minister said there, so others are working at the moment. That is why I would like to ask again about these government objectives, which are now talking about the great country of biofuels in a little big letters: in what time frame will this be achieved? If we look at technological developments, it is clear that we need international investment. We also have good pilots, and they will be able to build new ones, but what is the extent to which this production of biofuels in Finland can then be increased, when there is a competition for all these, wood chips and waste and so on? What is the Minister’s assessment of Finland’s level in this regard?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u56	Mr President! That is precisely the case, biofuels are a quick way of reducing emissions in the short term, but the question is how far they are sufficient. It would therefore be necessary to take a look further into the future now and see what other possibilities we have for reducing CO2 emissions from transport, especially passenger transport. Biofuels are needed, but in particular they are needed in heavy traffic and air transport for a long time to come, because there is no possibility of electrification. Oil heating should also be abandoned more quickly than what is said in this government proposal, giving energy support to the low-income, and thus allowing this option to be changed to renewable energy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u57	Mr President! It's too bad you're a representative. The reference is no longer there when he could have commented on these increasing bills which will be sent to the public. I would like to ask the Minister how you comment on this realism. We know that Norway has, of course, chosen electric cars. It is my understanding that 99% of electricity is produced by hydropower, it is run over, so for them electricity is free in a way at certain times, and Sweden also has almost half of hydropower production — slightly different countries. When some of us attack fellings, that they should also be reduced, peat is removed from the market, coal is removed from the market, so are we burning notes in exchange for power plants, or what are we burning? When it is a little unclear to me, then the question, Minister, is: If we go very orthodoxly and a little like hyperthermia on top of energy policy, does it happen that the import of wood from Russia is significantly increasing by sea from a world where it is already under heavy demand and rising price pressure? Could you please?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u58	Madam President! In that bio-scenario of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, the key challenges are the availability and price of sustainable biofuels. After all, this report states that at present approximately 40% of the international production of renewable diesel is directed to Finland, Sweden and Norway. If these planned targets are met, then between 55 and 60 per cent of global renewable diesel should be directed here to the Nordic countries. This will mean that production costs will rise significantly for consumers in the future, and this will also mean that the costs of operating and transporting industry will increase, food, goods will increase very much in the future if we go there.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u59	Madam President! When we talk about reducing emissions, of course, it is good to remember that the basic thing is that it is reducing emissions when emissions are not generated. Unfortunately, the atmosphere does not distinguish whether CO2 or any other greenhouse gas is generated from fossil raw material or renewable raw material. Its physico-chemical effect in the atmosphere as a greenhouse gas is exactly the same regardless of the raw material. The aim of emission reductions must then really be to reduce carbon dumping in the atmosphere, at the same time increasing carbon sequestration and increasing carbon stocks. This is the big picture of reducing emissions, whether we talk about traffic or anything else. But is the goal to make Finland a power of the bioeconomy? Of course, it also comes to the question that, if the production of biofuels is growing and growing, when the demand is growing so high, if the forest industry's leftovers and waste are produced, the limits will certainly be met somewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u60	Madam President! It is good that Finland has set a clear path to achieving the right result by adding bio-division to transport fuels. That is precisely because the speeches, such as those presented by the demars, that internal combustion engines, diesels and petrol engines, on the transport side would be banned by 2030, in practice mean that most Finns would become footmen and only those with a lot of money in their purse could buy Tesla or something like that. And we must remember at the moment when the Greens are looking forward to a zero-emission economy, that what does it make sense to burn coal in this city and make huge amounts of electricity under the eyes of the Greens of their own free will and then criticise those who try to bring renewable energy to the market? Yes, it has its own shirt washing, a bad conscience washing pretty bad that this is done. What is important is that we build our own biofuel system so well that we replace fossil fuels and keep these existing cars in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u61	Madam President! The Minister well described the fact that there is no timber being pushed into the oven, that these raw material reserves of biofuels are, after all, coming from the side streams of the forest industry. In that sense, I have, of course, followed with some concern the debate we have had in Finland on fellings and the fact that we have parties who believe that we do not need more forestry industry at least. Then, of course, the alternative is to bring us foreign timber, and then there is the way in which it is produced and produced under the same conditions. In my opinion, it is a much bigger question mark than when it comes to sustainable Finnish forestry and the exploitation of its side streams. Indeed, I would have asked the Minister for a brief view on the interrelationship between harvest volumes and the future of biofuels.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u62	Madam President! Unfortunately, when we talk about these biofuels, we often forget one of the ingredients that is close to me — alcohol. So we're talking about the use of ethanol in combustion engines. This would have the advantage of being self-sufficient in fuel rather than dependent, for example, on oil-producing countries, on Arab countries. And from a climate point of view, alcohol, ethanol, would be cleaner than gas or diesel, also because it would not have to be transported from remote countries to here. It would also have an employment effect. It would be easy to create thousands of two- or three-person workshops in Finland, and there would be no need for much of a car garage. Furthermore, it should be noted that this would also have the advantage of getting the price of cereals at the level of agriculture once again in our country. This ingredient should not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u63	And now I will give the Minister a reply on account of his timetable. — Minister Tiilikainen, 3 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u64	Thank you, Mr President. A few comments on the issues raised. This volume, which may be produced in Finland, remains, of course, for the market to decide, for future decisions to be made. We must now remember that renewable fuels and electronic transport are not against each other in any way, but mutually supportive. The more electric cars we have in transport in 2030, the higher the alloy percentage for the use of internal combustion engines by the same amount of renewable liquid fuels. In other words, these are mutually supportive objectives, the promotion of electronic transport and biofuels, and these will indeed make rapid progress with emission reductions. Sufficientness and impact on the price: It is quite true that none of us can say what the exact price of renewable fuel will be in 10 or 11 years' time, but we can consider the estimates that we are talking about the impact of less than 10 cents on the price per litre. I understand that in the past year, the price of a gas pump or a diesel pump has varied by 20 cents just because of fluctuations in the price of crude oil. So this possible price bonus, as it were, is already disappearing within this normal variation. The fact that there is such a large share of this production in the Nordic countries shows that the Nordic countries are on the front line and we have front-row companies, we have activities that have accelerated the development of renewable liquid fuels, and that is good. But indeed, as electronic transport increases, then the product from that renewable fuel production capacity will increasingly be released for air transport, for example. Now we still have a relatively small demand for renewable fuels in air transport, but it will certainly be on the increase in the future, and that is why these investments and investments will certainly not go to waste. There are several options: biogas, ethanol, renewable diesel, synthetic fuels. So on the side of renewable transport fuels there is a wide range of products coming. However, biogas does not fall under the distribution obligation, but we promote its production and distribution through investment subsidies. In fact, I believe that the 2030 targets for biogas, 50000 cars, are likely to be exceeded, and there is also a lot of potential for the use of biogas in heavy traffic beyond this legislation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u66	Let's get back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u67	Madam President! The proposed law on the promotion of the use of biofuel oil would mean that, from 2021 onwards, some of the light fuel oil should be replaced by biofuel oil. The proposal also proposes to amend the Law on the Promotion of the Use of Biofuels in Transport to strengthen the distribution obligation from 2021 onwards and to impose penalties for non-compliance with the additional obligation. First of all, from the outset, the Finns have been very critical of the presentations now made, because there are many unacceptable effects on the laws. Higher prices of biofuels, especially advanced biofuels, will increase fuel costs in the future, and in reality price increases are much higher than the government suggests in its proposal. In agriculture, in turn, the increase in costs is due to changes in the distribution obligation for machinery, particularly for cereals. This is an unacceptable additional burden on farmers, especially as we know the challenges facing farmers in recent years. Similarly, higher heating prices increase costs in oil heating houses. The Finnish People's Parliamentary Group sees that this too is unreasonable, especially for pensioners, but also for all other self-inhabitants. There are still less than 200,000 small houses warming up with oil in Finland. True Finns see that there is no need to take decisions that harm Finland and Finnish companies in competition. The bill will cost hundreds of millions of euros to various operators and to the private sector, including the forest industry. In a country such as Finland, the impact of increasing logistics costs is also significant. Passenger drivers will pay a nice sum for this in the form of increased fuel charges. These costs, too, are not clearly stated by the government in its own proposal. Finally, we see that when political decisions are taken, priority should always be given to the national interests of our country. This has not happened, therefore, in this package of laws. This is both scandalous and reprehensible. Indeed, the sitting government seems to have completely forgotten its main role in promoting the Finnish people and their interests. We have tabled an objection to the motion in the committees, and at second reading we will propose that the legislative proposals be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u68	Mr President! The advantage of Finland and Finland, and also the competitive advantage of Finland, is that we make those solutions in national climate policy — and then take them globally forward — to solve global warming. It is precisely that we are part of a group that will curb global warming to the point that global warming does not exceed that one and a half degrees. That is why it has been interesting once again to hear the assessments of the social democrats' climate programme here. I would like to thank all eight parliamentary groups who have participated in the joint statement on how to get us as Finns involved in this development, which will ensure that the climate does not warm up more than one and a half degrees. That is where we are committed to reducing CO2 emissions by 55% in 2030, and in 2040 we are in a situation where sinks absorb more carbon than it is released, which means that we are in a carbon neutral situation. This is precisely what the Social Democrats have proposed in their climate policy programme. And indeed, as I said earlier, this government proposal is heading in the right direction, but it does not look far enough and does not bring all the options that should now be included. In particular, it is important to understand that developments are moving forward very quickly. The fact that we are now committing the situation to the blending obligation of biofuels under this law for a period of 12 years solidifies the development that we should be promoting. That is why these proposals, which have been put forward by the Social Democrats, the Left Alliance and the Greens in their own protests, are extremely important, and I do not see them in any way contrary to our long-term energy and climate policy. On the contrary, knowing that we are always going in a better direction, in a lower-emission direction, seems to me to be such consistency.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u69	Madam President! With reference to the recent debate in the presence of the minister, it was good that other alternative propulsion forces, including biogas, were brought up. We have often discussed in this Chamber that the country has, as it were, lacked such an effective and effective biogas strategy. I would also like to point out that this is the most advantageous energy for the consumer, the motorist, and that it is renewable energy. The biogas itself contains a much stronger greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide, namely methane, but the methane released into the atmosphere is released into the atmosphere in any case when its organic material breaks down, so in that sense it is an efficient circular economy. Mr President! The purpose of this government proposal is to promote the objective of halving transport emissions and the consumption of imported oil by 2030, and it is based on a policy that emissions reductions in transport, oil heating and machinery should be implemented primarily through biofuels. This approach is not entirely without problems because the raw material of biofuels is available and produced in a sustainable way, taking into account, among other things, the carbon balance and biodiversity. The national energy and climate strategy has set a target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from transport by 50% by 2030 compared to 2005 levels. By the way, the role of transport is crucial, as transport generates about 40% of the emissions from the Finnish burden sharing sector. In the long term, however, these emission reductions should mainly be based on reducing energy consumption in transport, not alone and not just on increasing the use of biofuels, so it can really only be an intermediate stage or some sort of out-of-year period. One aspect of this view is that the need to abandon fossil energy and combustion engine technology is clear. It needs to be recognized and recognized. For the most part, other solutions need to be found. In fact, I have already said that the atmosphere does not separate CO2 from the sources of emissions, the effects are the same for climate change, so the key objective must be to reduce the amount of carbon and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. It means less burning coal and more binding coal and increasing carbon stocks. Mr President! There is no single and simple solution to eliminate or reduce emissions from transport, nor will the car fleet quickly be replaced by other than internal combustion engine technology. That's a challenge. But it is clear that many measures are needed. It is also necessary to improve the energy efficiency of cars and the transport system as a whole and, indeed, to direct biofuels primarily to modes of transport such as heavy goods transport and air transport where there are no alternative technologies available to a large extent. Mr President! There have been many assessments of the electrification of passenger transport. One is proposed by Sitra, the Finnish Fund for Independence, which says that the import of internal combustion cars should be banned from 25 and that the sale of internal combustion cars should be banned from 2027. As far as oil heating is concerned, the distribution obligation set out in this Government proposal does not seem to be sufficiently effective to reduce emissions. Instead of this bio-share, the aim should be to abandon the installation of new oil-fired systems, i.e. to ban it and set a target year for phasing out oil heating. Of course, there is a need for support to prevent excessive costs for individual people. As Mrs Myller has already said, this solution, as proposed by the government, would lock the withdrawal of obligations for a period of 12 years. During that time, due to legislative processes, making changes would be quite rigid. This proposal should include specific reference periods, e.g. in 2023 and 2026, in order to assess the availability of raw materials, technological developments, fuel price developments and the accessibility of emission reduction targets and, where appropriate, make adjustments to the chosen line.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u70	Madam President! This government proposal and the report from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy are excellent policies and, above all, a very good climate policy. It is clear that we must comply with internationally accepted agreements and objectives to increase emission-free energy and reduce fossil fuels. This is the right direction and the right thing to do. Moreover, this report is based on it, and the good government proposal is based on the fact that with the existing instruments we can do a huge number of good things without having to resort to some of the incomprehensible tricks we have recently been able to read from the various media and to hear and see, for example, that internal combustion engines should be banned. There is no sense in that decision if such a thing were to be done. What would happen to the machines, what would happen to driving in a country that is usually long distances, while at the same time we ourselves have the means to make a positive contribution? It is precisely this increase in the bio-division of transport fuels that is the way forward. And in this proposal, the government has taken a very good path with the aim of creating by 2030 a situation in which there will be 30% of this bio-dimension in transport fuel — in 29 years already, that is, before 30. This is the right direction, and it is precisely the good thing that we use our own raw materials and reduce fossils. Everyone knows that if we suddenly started to do something else that was absurd and unjustified, for example, we would ban these internal combustion engines, that would be a very drastic discriminating decision which, in my opinion, does not even meet the constitutional requirement that all people should be treated equally, because it would divide people into two different categories, those who have money to buy it Tesla and others who would ride bicycles long distances in the winter weather. Now that these electric cars are being idealized, no one has bothered to stop, think about how a huge environment would be destroyed by the fact that batteries, metals, other heavy metals and other different substances used for that famous car or other electric cars would be destroyed and, at the same time, these good - working cars would be scrapped. It would be an environmental disaster, not an environmental act, but an environmental disaster if this system were suddenly changed. The right path is that we ourselves build biofuels among transport fuels as much as possible. For example, in Brazil, look at what friends do in Brazil. It is today driven by cars that all operate on bio-based ethanol. Bioethanol, which is over 80%, goes into the fuel tank of a passenger car almost one to one. Of course, a few hoses will have to be replaced by...
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u73	Mr President! As a member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, I would like to say a few more words about this preparation and policy statement: First of all, I would say to Mr Hoskonen that the government has committed itself to the production of 250,000 electric cars and hybrid cars by 2030, which means that Hoskonen is also committed to such targets.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u76	Madam President! As Mr Ihalainen well described above, we are bound to have so-called points of view. Indeed, RED II does not yet exist in its entirety. We have certain products in double counting, of which at least one is made in Finland, and it is pine oil, which receives various tax subsidies, and the government has also invested in this investment. And I find it funny in itself that such a great raw material for products at an even higher processing level will be burned on top of the piston, when it could be used without tax subsidies to obtain much more profitable products for the national economy. We are doing here, in a way like wind power 2 by tying ourselves to a period of long-term scrutiny, which the Minister has also defended here, namely that the industry has now been given the signal that we are on a sustainable path. But the review mechanism that would have been needed would have been precisely that if we could then promote these non-carbon and non-fossil fuels with different raw materials than just bio-based ones, then we would have been on a much better and more credible path and none of this would have been off. It would only have speeded up the technological potential of product development, i.e. it should have been given more space. Indeed, the Committee on Transport and Communications was unanimous in its opinion, and it was a little confusing that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy was then unable to follow the same line as the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Of course, economic and transport fuels can be distinguished no matter what they want, but in any case, how close it was — as Mr Ihalainen's comment was just heard that it was very close — that this could not have been the case, but obviously one of the political parties there did not want to be on the same lines as the Committee on Transport and Communications. The objectives themselves and the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy are well-structured and supported in that sense, but it is in the same line as those raised in these objections that they must be supported when this matter is brought to an end. Madam President! Let us hope that we are a pioneer and, however, enable technological development so that these new innovations also dare to develop new non-fossil fuels, that this does not now serve as a signal to the effect that there will be no relief, but that 12 years will be passed by these. I would like to believe what Mr Tiilikainen has said about the fact that, once such a product has been created, we will then see how it is defined in this report and in the government's proposal, but that is what makes it somewhat contradictory.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u77	Madam President! In essence, I think that this government proposal is good, because it is reaching for the kind of development that is important and necessary to Finland for the future as well. Of course, a great deal has been said about the fact that the greatest fear is that the price of fuel for consumers will increase significantly. This fear is real, because representatives of the ABC service station chain owned by St1, Teboil and SOK, among others, have already mentioned over a year ago that if such a law goes ahead, the fuel price will immediately increase by 10 cents with its pump. In addition, oil - heated houses are their own number separately. However, if the price of fuels is at risk of rising up to 30 cents per litre by the time we reach 2030, then something must be done about this. I myself would have liked to see some kind of tax compensation put forward in connection with this government proposal in order to prevent this fuel price from rising. Now that it doesn't exist, I do understand this concern. Mr President! Here the Minister has already mentioned how Neste Oil has been very successful, especially in the field of biofuels, and the fivefold increase in Neste Oil's share price during this government term speaks its own language that the direction is the right one. During the last parliamentary term, I was a member of Neste Oil’s Board of Directors, and even then we were presented with the fact that Neste Oil has long ago made biofuels a substitute for jet fuel. By then, this product had been developed and tested for several years. A completely safe and functional product. The only problem that has not come to the market is that, of course, airlines do not want to buy this biofuel because it costs almost twice as much. If we are really looking for this kind of environmentally friendly fuel in the future and then for this kind of recycled fuel, then of course this should politically in the European Union take a step in the direction that these start in a uniform way then also drive for the air transport part. When some advertise an electric car to be free of emissions in the future and completely substitute for such a combustion vehicle, it will not happen for decades yet. We already know that we are not necessarily able to resolve very quickly the fact that the cost of purchasing them is very high, nor is it possible to find all the electricity that is needed to charge them. It can only be imagined that if we had, for example, 750,000 electric cars here, what would we charge or at least what price would we charge them with? Mr President! According to one Berylls study, the CO2 emissions from the manufacture of electric cars in a fossil fuel plant are 74 percent higher than the emissions from the production of an internal combustion engine and the electric car is only 50000 km away, corresponding to about three and a half years in Germany — that is, a 30 kilowatt-hour battery car. Similarly, if there is a Mercedes EQC or Audi e-tron, a 95 kilowatt-hour battery, then we can immediately calculate a two-to-three-fold mileage of what it should drive — or, well, twice, 100,000 kilometers are presented in some calculations — before it becomes so-called emission-free, because its production costs and greenhouse emissions costs are so high at its production stage. In this sense, too, it is a bit of piety but to say that the number of electric cars is increased in order to get into this kind of emission-free energy. That energy must also be produced in some way. Of course, as long as it has been produced in a renewable way, energy consumption will at least no longer increase emissions. Mr President! At the end of the day, it must be said that this crude oil production will eventually end. It is not endlessly available in the world’s warehouses, at least within the country, and in that sense it is very necessary and also urgent to obtain such renewable energies. In that sense, the government's proposal to aim for a 30% blending obligation is a step in the right direction but flawed in that it would have to be paid by consumers alone. When this was taken into account in this government proposal, then this would have been more than a good one. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u78	Mr President! It is good that the government is prepared for a significant reduction in transport emissions, and biofuels also play a major role in this. But at the same time, Finland will be left alone if we concentrate only on raising the obligation to mix biofuels. It has to be assessed that the world is changing very fast at the moment and, especially on the passenger car side, electrification is moving very fast and its cost level is falling, which means that it is becoming increasingly available to families and the next low income. By 2030 the world will change significantly, and if we want to reduce emissions as cost-effectively as possible and also to be able to solve the problem of emissions from air transport and heavy traffic, then it is obvious that the use of biofuels will increasingly shift to heavy traffic and air transport in the coming decades, because in practice the use of electricity is still a rather remote perspective. Then, too, it is worth preparing for the future that passenger transport will increasingly be electrified and that biofuels will be transferred to heavy traffic and air transport, where real significant reductions in emissions can be achieved globally if Finnish expertise is utilised there. Therefore, what has been proposed here in the draft statements should have been taken into account here: that this objective will be monitored over the years and assessed whether biofuels will come from sustainable sources, or whether it will then also harm biodiversity if biofuels are used, as in Brazil, where rainforests are beaten up and accelerated to climate change, which is not part of the solution but part of the problem. At the end of the day, all the details must be taken into account in the fact that our solutions contribute to a sustainable climate policy, reduce locally harmful emissions and make sense in terms of freedom of movement and the costs of transport as a whole. From this point of view, I would have liked the government to have weighed these other developments and speeded up the introduction of electric cars. At the same time, I draw attention to the fact that the role of biogas should also be discussed and that there are opportunities in biogas that Finland should actively develop. In other words, if we want to replace oil-based solutions, for example in agricultural machinery and heavy-duty transport, biogas is also a good domestic and climate-friendly option that should be accelerated. And there is also a place for it in passenger car transport in order to increase the biogas distribution infrastructure and also for farmers to be able to obtain by-products from biogas production. In other words, by focusing solely on this limited blending obligation, we lose an overall picture of what is also in Finland's overall interest in climate policy for jobs and the vitality of rural areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u79	Mr President! A few words to add to what I have said before: In other words, the question of the time horizon by which we create low-emission traffic, including electric cars: It is as if it were supposed to be today or tomorrow when it comes to the fact that, for example, that 750,000 electric cars would be on the road. The question is that during the next term of government decisions must be taken on what Finland will do. Of course, this also involves what the rest of Europe is doing, but Finland cannot simply follow what is being done elsewhere, but we must be an active influence and player in order to achieve the goals that we are committed to in climate policy. And indeed this low-emission means all possible measures to make transport low-carbon. This means the development of public transport, the development of rail transport, the inclusion of biogas in the range of uses, the reconciliation of housing and work, of course, and it would be good for those parties that are always trying to pick up one thing, for example, from the Social Democrats' climate programme, to think about the whole that we have made our own presentations on. So the question is that we need a range of options and concrete alternatives that need to be implemented in the 2030s, by the 2040s at the latest, but decisions need to be taken urgently.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u80	Madam President! By the way, we do not have the same situation in Finland as in Brazil, that rain forests are being beaten and then they are not being treated. We have increased the carbon sink, it has decreased in Brazil, and in Canada in the same coniferous forest zone there has not been an increase in the carbon sink. It is not really there, because those forests have not been managed, but in Finland it has been growing with determined management. In this climate drive, now that the election is coming, it's worth taking some sense. We are now hitting transport, which is responsible for between 20% and 25% of CO2 emissions and for just under 70% of that volume. Well, it cannot be addressed in any way, because the wheels will stop spinning if competitiveness leaves us for cost reasons. So this small part is now being attacked on top of the last one, 30%, which is the insignificant part of the 20-25%. It does mean that the countryside is empty, there is no alternative. Even now living there is expensive, there are long distances and winter seasons, when the climate has now become the same as it was in the 70s. The heating costs and the others have risen. Which means we need some sense. Let me give you an example. The cloth peninsula very well suggested to me: If you take a thin and fat one and you put the same weight loss targets on them, what will happen? That thin one's in pain. The fat one who lives there in Poland and Germany and there will feel better, but we will get hurt. We are the thinhead who is the first to achieve the goal of reducing emissions from us. We're exemplary already, but if we start... — Madam President! I'll take another floor. Time's up. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u81	Madam President! Admittedly, this climate change debate in Finland has run away from all rational proportions a long time ago. We need to remember the big truths: Finland's total emissions have halved to this day since 1990, and in 2017 emissions decreased by just over 5 per cent, so we've been coming down in the amount of emissions all the time. If we compare the situation in 1990 to today, for example, there are more than 2.5 million passenger cars and vans in Finland at the moment, so that the total number of passenger cars and passenger cars in Finland exceeds 3 million today. And when Mrs Lauri Ihalainen expressed doubts that the signatory was not committed to these amounts of electric cars, how many of them will come in due course I am committed, but now someone has to start thinking if we start to scrap these good cars that work today. Why don't you go to the big subways in Europe? Why don't you go to Germany or Spain? A few years ago, I was on vacation in Spain. We drove towards Barcelona on a five - lane highway, and it took five lanes along the car at such a speed that I have never seen anywhere before. Let's drive a hundred and twenty in that fastest lane — aren't those best two hundred? There's a car next door, and here we're scaring the country's grannies and old men that their old Corolla is supposed to have the destruction of the world. Nonsense, I say. [Laughter] This is a debate that scares people that their cars are bad and must start building a huge number of electric cars and destroying functional, old, good cars that are very good in terms of climate policy... A ten-year-old petrol-powered car today has a catalytic converter, it has a fuel injection system, it has a Lambda sensor that monitors the amount of oxygen to burn. Particulate emissions are almost non-existent and each year these cars are inspected and checked. And now all of a sudden, before the election, we start by Parliament in a race to intimidate people by having cars to wreck, the climate is going to be ruined. The address is somewhere other than this country. And now, with this wise bill of law, we change the goal that it will be 30% bio-based fuels in 29 C.E. That is an excellent objective. And remember, ladies and gentlemen, this is just the beginning. We can improve the technology by improving our running all the time. Use domestic raw materials. And then the second most important point: Think about the fact that if we suddenly decided today — the Greens have presented it in this Chamber, as well as the Demars — on a new cutting restriction. As Antti Rinne said several times, the ceiling on Demarie's cutting limit would be 72.8 million motors. If we take this line, it will lead us to a ditch we will never get out of. Mr President, I shall now turn to the podium for a moment. [ The speaker moves to the podium] Madam President, on this matter of the car: We really have over 3 million cars, and if we start scraping these well-functioning, fit cars now in heat that we start buying electric cars... After all, this electric car conversation has completely gotten out of hand. Lauri Ihalainen had just expressed doubts that the signatory would not be in favour of this system. I am very much in favour of electric cars entering this country, but Mr Ihalainen, as a strong working man, knows that if we go to this electric car line, it would divide the people into two groups. The worst of all is the situation if we start to distribute state subsidies to these Tesla buyers who really have money. People with a lot of money don't need government money to buy that electric car any cents. They get to buy that Tesla or some other car with their own money. Similarly, a new Toyota Camry, who as an electric car costs a terrible amount — he who buys such a car does not need a penny of government money. He can buy it himself. But for the average pensioner there in the Ilomantsi Möhkö who goes — wife and husband — to drive to the local K-store to buy bread and milk and other food there, the ten - year - old Corolla, which is in excellent condition, is a great environmental car. Now these people have been turned into some kind of Fae that is ruining the atmosphere. This is the kind of talk that ruins its atmosphere, not the people who drive their cars. The representatives here create such an atmosphere that these people are wrong to do in this country. Those people deserve our respect and not a single critical word. It has been a long time since we imagined that we would save the world by speaking for electric cars. Well, that's just total nonsense. Finally, Mr President, think of the fact that if we start, for example, restricting the use of wood so that it can no longer be turned into biofuels, when the world is not saved after the wood is being cut — as has been done — once the market knows that there should be no peat use and nuclear power, then what on earth do we run industry, schools, hospitals and plants in general? Are we rubbing cat skins against each other and waiting for electricity to come from there?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u82	Madam President! The aim of this proposal is quite commendable and correct, but the justification for it being justified by this climate policy is, in my view, even dangerous. We have such a fuss in Europe, in the European Union and in Finland that it is even quite likely that serious mistakes will be made at this rate, decisions that are not in anyone's interest and are least in Finland's interest. But this proposal can be justified. We know that it is estimated that the earth will run out of oil for 30, 40, 50 years. When it is already in sight, in the lifetime of the next generation, many here too, it is clear that its price will increase, and while it is still being used as a policy tool in the Middle East and elsewhere, there is no reason or wisdom to build the future on it. Therefore, it is worth developing alternative fuels in Finland, as Neste Corporation does, and this bio-share in liquid fuels is a wise proposal. It is clear that it is worth replacing imported oil in Finland with renewable, domestic, employment-enhancing, improving bio-material. It will also create, directly or at least indirectly, export opportunities when this share is developed. This obligation in itself to mix is a rigid procedure when it is made compulsory, but perhaps it will lead to further progress. This government proposal, as has been mentioned here, is also very problematic in that it is rigid for the use of biogas, synthetic fuels and perhaps even alcohol as a transport fuel. That is the problem here, but nevertheless we are heading in the right direction. Mr President! When this inevitably increases fuel prices, housing costs and transport costs as well as business costs, and we know, however, that in all fuel, liquid fuel, there are plenty of taxes, then regulating these taxes, if necessary reducing them, can meet this need, and if the economy is well managed in the country, then taxation will be able to keep, for example, business wheels rolling and people in such an economy that they are able to live in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u83	Madam President! Yes, this is a very serious matter, and I am sure it is also worth taking that seriously. Of course, it is no nonsense to fight against climate change when we have heard such speeches here this afternoon. In their own opinions and reports, the committees have raised this situation of synthetic fuels and also the related terminology concern, which has been linked to renewable fuels and then to bio-based fuels. Of course, when we make a new political market, then its market must be Europe-wide. It will not happen if we have different markets in every single EU country as to what is accepted. It must be remembered that these synthetic fuels have an unprecedented potential. Although technology is, in fact, quite old, over 70 years old, there are not yet very many actual market models. Interesting tunings exist in the United States as well as in Finland. The Lappeenranta University of Technology conducts world-class research, and I assume that in the future new ways of making fuel will be created, including in a completely carbon neutral way. Of course, it is important that the European tables, especially now that the delegated provisions relating to RED II are being prepared for the future, should also have these synthetic fuels on the way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u84	Madam President! I'll take it from where I just left off. Take a look at that traffic — Hoskose had a good speech — how many cars or electric cars developed in Finland. How many do we have? They have all been made in that Central Europe — more or less, of course, elsewhere, but mainly there. Well, now we set the biggest emission targets here in the periphery. This means that jobs will leave here and they will only be concentrated there in Central Europe. We're gonna end up like that pancakes I was talking about. And then here's what's nonsense. On this climate change: I read a little while ago when there was a story in the Evening Sanomat about Krakatau breaking out. In one moment, or if it lasted a few days now, the eruption brought the earth’s climate to a cool temperature of one and a half degrees. Well, if this kind of thing happens, does the situation now begin to warm up this earth if it cools by one and a half degrees? So that's the long-term, reasonable solutions to this. We had an energy crisis in the '70s, I remember it well. Everyone was just talking about the end of the world’s oil, and the homes were replaced with electric heating, the cars were a little bit smaller, and so on. Well, what's happened to it? No one's gonna talk about it anymore. So now let's go on like this, when the media or what, someone activist, environmental organizations, greenpeace and things like this have raised the fact that the earth warms up. They've gone with it. When the election comes, we need voters to get back here. But here's the deal this time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u85	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 26/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-29-ps-149.u86	Madam President! The Government's proposal proposes changes to the visa correction procedure and the DNA examination in the context of the residence permit procedure provided for in the Foreigners' Act. The Administrative Committee unanimously supports the adoption of a bill contained in a government proposal. The committee considers it justified that the processing and settlement of visa redress requirements should be centralised from the Finnish diplomatic missions to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The amendment contributes to the legal certainty of the person liable for the visa and strengthens the status of the redress procedure as a remedy for those liable for the visa and may further reduce the need to refer the matter to the appeal authorities. Then, more precisely, to conduct this DNA study. According to the Finnish Immigration Service, the Finnish Immigration Service may reserve an opportunity for the applicant and the assembler of the family to prove their biological kinship by means of a DNA study paid for by the state funds. It is now proposed to amend the provision to five, since it no longer provides for a more detailed sampling of the oral mucosa for DNA testing. Therefore, the party may also take such a sample himself in future, under strict supervision by the Finnish Immigration Service or an official of the Foreign Service. This same official will also ensure the identity of the person who gave the sample, and the committee considers it very important that this official should be present personally throughout this sample. I had some doubts about myself. I had some reservations about this, and I compared it to athletes: what would it be if the athlete himself took a doping sample? But this is how it was found out that it really is. This is done under supervision, and its test result is then analysed by professionals. Furthermore, according to this study, samples taken by individuals themselves have been in use in the legal genetic study since the beginning of 2016. Taking these samples under the supervision of children's supervisors and Finnish delegation officials has been very successful on the basis of the expert consultation of the committee and the quality of the samples has been excellent. The proposed change will achieve significant cost savings and streamline the functioning of the Finnish Immigration Service and delegations. As far as this protection of personal data is concerned, the Government proposal before us does not address the relationship between the proposed changes to the EU General Data Protection Regulation. However, in the course of the expert consultation, the committee has received a report and, on the basis of the report it has received, considers that the proposed regulation fulfils the conditions for the processing of personal data belonging to specific categories of personal data in the General Data Protection Regulation and sets out adequate safeguards to safeguard the data subject’s rights. Mr President! Now that there are no more representatives here than me and you and then the officials, perhaps this should be stopped at this stage so that we do not prolong it any further. - Thank you.
