ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u2	The first question, Mr Purra, is the Parliamentary Group of the Finns Party.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u3	Mr President! The burden of illegal immigrants entering Europe is once again beginning to be shared — the burden that these people are, in the economic, social and security interests of society, researched. That's why it's so hard to decide. Minister of the Interior, Ohio, you were there when the Ministers of the Interior of Germany, France, Italy and Malta agreed on a new division of the burden on immigrants, which Finland is specifically seeking during the Finnish Presidency. You told me about the government's support on Twitter. You said that this would prevent drowning deaths in the Mediterranean: that is not the case with any logic. You're increasing drowning deaths by attracting immigrants to the sea. The government is involved in opening up routes to illegal migration to Europe. All you have to do is go out to sea, and the EU will take care of the rest. Minister of the Interior, what have you agreed? How many are coming, when, and how long is the deal? Will Finland be a model student again and play its part even if others do not?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u4	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Thank you for the question to the Finns. The aim of the Finnish Presidency of the European Union, our programme, is, among other things, to put European asylum policy in place together with European forces. What is absolutely central to this is the promotion of this CEAS package, the Common European Asylum System, which has been stuck for years: at the same time as it is being taken forward, people who are drowning in the Mediterranean are being rescued at the same time. According to international maritime law, no one should be left to drown.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u7	Let's stick to the time limits, ministers and representatives. I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u8	Why do you refuse to answer very simple questions, Minister Ohio? The fact is that the pressure on immigrants from the south is increasing again. Africa’s population may quadruple in this century. The arrivals don't stop. Right now, hundreds of immigrants arrive on the Greek islands. There is also pressure on Italian ports. The situation in Turkey is tense and millions are waiting for a possible opening-up of the European border. The same can happen through Russia. The Balkan route could explode. At the same time, you are accelerating the pressure from Libya. Immigrants are heading north for the highest standard of living. They're not staying in any other country. Mr Government, are you prepared to take action at the borders, as many other Schengen countries do, at the beginning of the new wave of migrants, and to dame the avalanche on the western border as well? We have no grounds for accepting asylum seekers from Sweden — neither in 2015 nor now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u9	Your Honor! Mr Purra, you also mentioned Russia in this situation. As we know, Finland has one of the longest external borders of the European Union, and then Finland, as a border state, is also interested in: [Base Finns Group: Answer! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u12	Madam President! In the autumn of 2015, the then Prime Minister made an open invitation by promising his house to asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u18	Your Honor! Thank you, Mrs Halla-aho, for the question. Of course, it is clear that in all situations the government and the state are prepared for different situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u23	Mr President! I would ask the Minister, when you mentioned — a matter that is obvious to everyone — that no human being should be left to drown in the Mediterranean: what international agreement, however, obliges this person, who is dependent on water, to drive to the next state and not to return to his country of origin? I am in the impression that a drowning person should be returned to his country of origin to get healthcare for his potential injuries or trauma. Secondly, Mr President, I would like to mention to the Minister that we are in Question Time in this Chamber and that people behind the screen are certainly waiting for direct answers to the direct questions. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u24	What was the question? I didn't have a question.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u25	Mr President! It is quite clear, as has just been said here, that no one should be left to drown in the Mediterranean, as the Minister also said. But on these three principles of the minister: You told me that they describe the solutions you tried to promote on Monday. Indeed, there was no important principle, that is, how to avoid the situation that arose in 2015 when we had more than a million people coming to Europe, including, quite obviously, hundreds of thousands who abused this system — among those who were genuinely persecuted. How do we avoid them coming all over Europe and they are difficult to return afterwards? Is it really the case that the government is now committing itself to resolving the crisis in a way that transfers applicants whose backgrounds have not been checked when, on the basis of the previous government's policies last winter, asylum decisions should be taken at external border centres? And last winter the centre was also involved in making decisions in which we specifically refused individual ships.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u26	Mr President! This debate, which is now taking place, relates to a situation where, before the new Commission starts its activities and resolves this issue — as the future President of the Commission has said in his own policy programme — there is a temporary situation that needs to be resolved. This is at the initiative of these four countries, a six-month period during which the people who come to the shores of Europe, rescued from the sea in this interim period, will be dealt with. And at the moment, the Finnish Presidency is trying to promote, in accordance with its own programme, all the solutions that can be attached to this situation. The starting point is that this is a temporary arrangement within six months. Each time the situation occurs, Finland will decide its own section separately.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u27	Madam President! Do you understand, Minister Ohio, that such a system of internal transfers would attract more applicants to these dangerous maritime routes where they are at risk of drowning and, at the same time, feed illegal human smuggling?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u33	Mr President! There are two things here that need to be separated. This is a temporary solution which must be taken care of because there is currently no Commission to take the matter forward from the point of view of a more permanent solution. I fully agree with Mr Räsänen that it makes sense to find alternatives in which the background of these people who need security can be established in advance, thereby ensuring that only those who need security come here and only those who need security can come. But we cannot help it that after June 2015, a total of 51,000 people sought international protection in Finland. We must clarify the legislation to which we are committed, in accordance with the international agreements to which we are committed, the need for the protection of these people. Of these, 17,000 people have been granted asylum in Finland, more than 30,000 have either received a negative decision, withdrawn an application or are currently awaiting removal from the country. It is important to have clarity, contractual clarity, that people can be returned from Finland when there are no grounds for asylum.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u34	Mr President! In the previous wave of asylum seekers, people came to Finland, especially from Iraq, of course from other countries. What is the current situation with Iraq with regard to the return agreement? We are well aware that Sweden, for example, has had such an agreement, but it has allowed only a few people to be returned to their country of origin. So I would ask when it is said that what is the question: what is the situation in the return agreement between Finland and Iraq?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u35	Your Honor! Thank you, Mr Sankelo, for the question. Finland is, among other things, opening a new embassy in Iraq, where a member of the Ministry of the Interior is leaving for a year's mission with the idea that return agreements will be actively discussed, day-to-day policy there. But at the same time, of course, at the political level, we are having discussions with these countries, to which refunds are mainly being made. As I mentioned earlier, during the last term of the government, the returns did not go well, and it is a matter set out in the government programme that these agreements are constantly being negotiated — this is our task.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u37	Mr President! The crisis of asylum seekers in 2015 must not happen again, as everyone in this Chamber agrees with that. But now that we see what we could do better about this, the effectiveness of the return agreements that we were talking about here is one of the key elements. What? As the EU Presidency, Finland now intends to make concrete progress on the functioning of these return agreements? The presidency would be able to do sensible things if it were to put the coalition behind it. So what will the Prime Minister, the Minister for the Interior, do about this in the autumn?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u39	Your Honor! Thank you, Mr Häkkänen, for your question. The last time I met new Commissioners this week was to talk to them on the phone. We have discussed the fact that this issue of return, combined with this reform of asylum policy, is a major entity. It will be a priority for many of the new Commissioners, it will also be a priority during the Finnish Presidency of the European Union to promote these issues, and, of course, it is absolutely essential that, when we bring the Member States together on a table, we create confidence among the Member States, so we can also have joint discussions in the direction of these countries of return. How to find strength in this, if possible, in cooperation? Addressing the root causes of migration, among other things, is central to many, and how Finland can act in the countries of origin on the one hand will also contribute to the better functioning of these return agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u41	Prime Minister Rinne wanted to reply. — — — — Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u42	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to say to the extent that I have discussed this situation with the High Representative of the EU, Mr Mogherin, whether the European Union, together, just as you said, could, with a wider group, apply for a package of return agreements which could resolve this problem from the Member States' point of view for those people who are not safe, who have received protection here, have not had an asylum basis. My Mogher has promised to take this matter forward. I have also had this debate with colleagues in the context of the European Council that how to move this issue forward in a way that will lead to a strong entry into return agreements. The Africa Strategy is an important part of the work of the future Commission. Finland has made a strong contribution to this. Through this Africa strategy, partnership with the countries of the African Union can ensure that one part of that partnership will be the strengthening of these return agreements to countries to which people can be returned.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u44	Madam President! I would like to ask the ministers whether you do not feel that this whole current asylum policy is extremely harmful, knowing what has happened in sexual crimes, how people have even lost their lives, what happened in Turku, what happened in Pori and so on. Is this a matter of accepting that the internal security of the country is so much at risk, or could it be thought that Finland is breaking out of agreements that cause this kind of crime?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u46	Madam President! This position should now be made very clear. Finland is not committed to any kind of temporary burden-sharing mechanism. It is good that the government will discuss it in due course. The central position is clear: we should not commit ourselves to such a mechanism unless it involves the majority of the EU countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u52	Your Honor! Thank you, Mr Kärnä, for the question. Trafficking in human beings, and trafficking in human beings in general, is one of the key issues to which both this government and our programme itself, as you well know, is also going through the government's programme of EU Presidency, and we are discussing these issues at European level, including with our ministers. We are working together within Europol, within Frontex, within the European agencies, which have a huge amount of information on these issues, on the one hand with regard to human smugglers in the Mediterranean, on the other hand, with regard to trafficking in human beings, which is reflected here as far as we are. This work is constantly being carried out, and what is essential is that the exchange of information is played.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u53	Mr President! Here it was suggested that Finland should break away from international agreements. [From the Group of the Fundamental Finns: It was downtown!]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u57	Mr President! This was discussed in the context of the government's inauguration of the presidency of the EU. It was known from previous situations that the presidency will be under pressure in this respect to put these people on board. It was found, for example, that Romania had taken such decisions despite everything, despite its own attitude, and that is why it was stated that we too should first have this kind of message to give that the presidency acts in solidarity with other states. But it was said right away that it makes sense to try to bring together the widest possible number of Member States in this temporary situation to take care of the common responsibilities we have for people seeking refuge.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u60	Madam President! You can do that with so many genres of opposition politics. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mr Räsä on behalf of the opposition for his very responsible and competent speech. It's easy to agree with the government and the city center.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u65	Your Honor! Thank you, Mr Kurvise, for your question. The number of asylum seekers continues to fall during this reign,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u68	Mr President! The government's talking about return, but it's not really doing anything to promote return. First of all, it is not just the authority of the Minister for the Interior, but it should move the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister. If there is will, then the agreement will be reached. A conditional development policy, trade policy and visa policy — there are ways, but you do not dare. Instead, the government will increase the attractiveness of offering work permits to those who have received a negative decision, which, of course, is also suitable for the assembly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u71	Mr President! Thank you, Mrs Purra, for the question. As you mentioned, you are very familiar with the programme of the Finnish Presidency of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u74	Next question, the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party and the representative, Mr Lepomäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u75	Mr President! In this regard, the Ministry of Finance has recently provided a calculation according to which government decisions increase revenue on average in all except the highest income categories. Some of this gave the impression that the taxation of middle-income employees would not be increasing. In fact, the government is simply preventing wage inflation from being taxed. On the other hand, the government is allowing taxation to increase as social security contributions rise, and benefits are, of course, raised to debt. The Coalition Party is concerned about how, regardless of the background, people in Finland can get medium and good income. Minister Lintilä, I would like to ask you: will the average wage earner receive more or less in hand with the same income next year? And does the Rinte government allow their own work to prosper, or are you concentrating your capital where they already exist?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u76	Madam President! Looks like we'll pick up where we left off last week. The review is the mother of the studies. I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u81	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u82	Mr President! Yes, social security contributions are also included in the tax rate in Finland. And if it is a question of creating alternatives and job opportunities in Finland: the government has all the keys in its hand if it really wants to increase the income left in people's hands. If you talk about a middle-income wage earner, such as a lecturer who earns about EUR 3400 a month in his main job and wants to do more work in an hour’s evening: He earns EUR 20 for his work, half of it goes to hand. This lecturer has two children and would need a nanny for that hour — the nanny’s salary is about EUR 15 after the household allowance. So this lecturer has to work an hour and a half to pay for an hour and a half for a nanny. So I ask you: is this time next year that this lecturer will have to do extra work, extra hours of work, longer or shorter than that hour and a half so that he can hire help for an hour and a half at home?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u83	Madam President! Of course I recognize this problem. Of course I do.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u89	Mr President! It was a good thing for the Minister. Lintilä recalled what happened during the last parliamentary term. That was the background to the fact that when the competitiveness pact was drawn up, which brought tens of thousands of jobs to this country, it was decided as part of the agreement that labour costs would increase but that the state would compensate for them by reducing taxes — otherwise the Social Democrats in this House supported that agreement. And this was the idea that those hardworking Finnish workers,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u93	Madam President! Mr Satonen, I would like to remind you that in the 2017 budget negotiations, it was very clear that the tax reductions in relation to the competitiveness agreement that had been fulfilled during the Government's term of office have been taken care of, and that was stated in those negotiations. In fact, I dug up the paper, and it is very clear that there is also the signature of the majority.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u94	Madam President! This government increases government debt, it increases public spending, it actually tightens taxes, but then the only thing that the government seems to be interested in in this connection is the way in which income development takes place in the different income accounts, possibly in the form of different kinds of public transfers. It seems that the government is not very concerned about the hardworking Finn who wants to support himself —
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u95	Madam President! I would not begin to narrow down hardworking Finns according to income levels.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u96	Mr Rydman, I would like to say that this government wants to ensure that the children of these industrious — regardless of income — Finns receive education from early childhood education all the way to that university in the future, in a way that does not affect in any way how people receive education. This government wants to ensure that elderly people can receive care safely without fear of getting older.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u97	Madam President! There is no doubt that everyone agrees that growth in employment is critical for the financing of public finances and therefore of all services provided by society. A key incentive trap arises from the fact that receiving work, especially in smaller income categories, does not always pay off because the income is too low. Of course, this can be directly influenced by taxation, but at least as important are, for example, housing and mobility costs, which are rising all the time. In other words, instead of squeezing about whether the money left in hand will be reduced directly because of taxation or through tax-related charges and labour side costs, how will the government contribute to making it more profitable to work in the labour sector as well as in the low-paid sectors?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u98	Mr President! Representative Halla-aho raised an important issue, housing costs from the point of view of the profitability of work. Through expanded land use agreements, this government is responsible for applying for the construction of affordable housing throughout Finland in the centres where the price of housing rises especially from the point of view of demand. It is one important entity that is being taken forward. Another important element is the desire to accelerate the creation of land-use agreements by building infrastructure in a way that will affect the price of housing in the long term and the future in such a way that work is more profitable. If we consider these measures to improve social security in the way that has now been decided, they are linked to the fact that, for example, in the case of increases in pensions, housing aid expenditure will not increase or decrease. Housing allowance does not affect the development of these people's security.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u100	Irade the Talman! This government is improving the competitiveness of our industry by reforming energy taxation. That's a really great thing. We are improving our export routes, and a couple of weeks ago it was heard that companies will be able to apply double depreciation in the future, which is likely to improve their ability to invest. I believe that even the assembly may be a supporter of this idea. Minister Lintilä, what is the timetable for bringing this reform through?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u101	Madam President! Mr Adlercreutz took an important step, that is to say to encourage our investors, and you mentioned double depreciation. We are also involved in raising the 50% tax deduction on intellectual property rights, which is also important. Both of these will be investigated, and efforts will be made to mobilise them as quickly as possible. The aim is for us to be in Parliament from the beginning of next year with these laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u102	Madam President! In order to refresh my memory, it must be said that last season the Left Alliance was the parliamentary group that opposed the legislative amendments relating to the Kiky agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u105	Mr President! This government's budget proposal has corrected this state of affairs: 257 million permanent income increases for municipalities through the central government system. And as a one-off compensation, an additional EUR 230 million will be proposed for this year's additional budget in order to correct the economic situation in the municipalities. Overall, this government will improve the local government finances by EUR 1.1 billion in various items coming through the central government system. The aim is that problems relating to municipalities' pre-recovery, which are currently linked to the municipal income register as a whole, can also be addressed through the development of accounting legislation. It is important that this holiday allowance issue can now be dealt with in such a way that no hard-working Finnish public sector employee will be able to cut the holiday allowance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u106	Mr President! So, Minister Lintilä, you confirmed that the taxation of typical employees will increase next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u107	Mr President! Of course, tax evasion is always regrettable, but, as I said, this is where it comes from the side costs of pay.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u112	Next question, Movement Now, Congressman Harkimo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u113	Madam President! Yesterday we talked about climate change in New York, and there has been a lot of discussion about it. I would have asked the government: do you have any concrete indicators that you will see in the future how things have progressed? At the moment, there are no indicators of any kind and we do not know how to make progress on all these projects, what to do. Now it's just such nonsense that we talk all the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u114	Mr President! I regret, Mr Harkimo, that the Minister for the Environment and Climate is not there and this answer to your question is now a little lame. We currently have a set of indicators in the various sectors, in all ministries, to verify what is happening to combat global warming. It is precisely in the sector of Minister Kulmun, which is not here today, that we have started with the various branches of industrial production in order to go through what can be done on this issue. Then concrete measures will be used to assess whether the outcome will come. At the moment, I cannot tell you how this spectrum will ultimately be built, but the strong goal is that 2035 Finland will be carbon neutral and soon thereafter carbon-negative, due to the measures that will take place during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u115	Since the Minister of Responsibility is not here at the moment, that concludes this question at Question Time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u116	Next question, the Socialist Group in Parliament, Mrs Viljanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u117	Mr President! Earlier this week we were discussing a citizens' initiative in this Chamber to prevent the exclusion of children and young people. Several reported their experiences with bullying at school and shared their own touching stories. The stories of bullying stop every time. Bullying can be the beginning of further exclusion. Therefore, every child and young person must have the right to a safe and understanding adult, preferably many. According to the Rinte Government's programme, increasing inequality and exclusion are key challenges for the Government's rule of law. Exclusion is one of the greatest threats to our internal security. Minister Ohio, when you are responsible for internal security, how do you see exclusion as part of it, and what measures do you intend to take to improve the situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u118	Your Honor! Thank you, Mr Viljanen, for the very important question. As you mentioned, it is indeed the case that the Ministry of the Interior's own reports have for years identified exclusion as the main threat to internal security. Every time people are left aside in some way in society, in margins, in a situation where they feel that there is no place for them, that they are not listened to, that they cannot influence, it is also a question of increasing insecurity in this society. An internal security report will be carried out during this government term, among other things. I have last discussed it today, and we are actually going to do it one year faster than what has been requested by the Committee on Administrative Affairs, for example, by the end of next year — where there will be a defence policy report and a foreign and security policy report, then at the same time there will be an internal security report which will put this issue at the heart of the issue. The government program is based on the fact that no one is left out. It is ensured by investing in education, social security contributions and, among other things, by affordable housing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u119	Next question: the Christian Democratic Parliament Group, Mr Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u120	Mr President! The government's budget proposal is an unfortunate contribution to those living in sparsely populated rural areas. At the same time, electricity grid companies are increasing their electricity transmission charges. In Sweden, sparsely populated areas have lower electricity taxes. Two years ago, when the electricity tax was raised, the inhabitants of northern Sweden received a third tax relief from the electricity tax. In Finland, large electricity transmission charges and high taxes continue to make oil a heating source attractive, which does not contribute to Finland's carbon neutrality targets. The calculation of the electricity tax could increase the overall collection of electricity tax if the shift from oil heating to electric air pumps or geothermal heat was accelerated. The calculation of the electricity tax would therefore speed up the transition to low-emission energy sources. So I ask the Minister for Finance: what is the government's position on the graduated electricity tax and the introduction of the Swedish model in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u121	Mr President! Mr Östman raised these electricity transmission charges. In this context, it must be said that this has been noted long ago in the government. This is something that needs to be addressed. We are currently preparing measures to reduce electricity transmission prices. There are three elements: The first element is that the obligation to put those nets underground is reconsidered, perhaps lightened. The second is the changes in depreciation periods, which aim to ensure that depreciation periods are not so short and thus provide room for this price reduction. The third is then a clean roof for electricity transmission network charges,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u124	I would ask Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u125	Mr President! We policy makers are well aware that energy policy decisions must be made in a long-term perspective. On the basis of what we know about energy production at the moment, it is clear that, without a significant increase in nuclear power, the decoupling of European industry and heating from fossils will not succeed. So I ask the Prime Minister: is the government in the process of revising nuclear legislation?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u126	Mr President! At present we have two ongoing nuclear projects, which hopefully at some point will be part of the necessary increase in the basic power needed in Finland to enable industry to grow in order to build sustainable economic growth in Finland. Of the significant energy technologies currently known, nuclear power is one of the key to securing basic power. The government does not currently have a project to amend nuclear legislation, but within the framework of existing legislation it is quite possible to ensure that we also have basic power through nuclear power. We also need to invest in research and product development from renewable energy sources. We need to invest in research at universities and universities of applied sciences to move these things forward. It's important to us. Innovation, research, strengthening the future of new forms of energy — it is the future of Finnish society.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u127	Mr President! Mr Adlercreutz mentioned earlier an amendment to the government programme on energy taxation in industry, which facilitates the transition from fossil sources in industry. The Government Programme also includes a broader climate-based energy tax reform. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance about the timetable for preparing this reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u128	Madam President! This working group on energy tax reform will start at the end of the year, and this will have to be completed next year. This will be a significant, large entity, and this will certainly also have an impact on the much-called business subsidies and their behaviour. This whole thing is being discussed in this work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u129	Next question, the Central Parliamentary Group, Mr Huttunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u130	Mr President! There are over half a million Finns in enforcement. There are many reasons, just as there are us humans. Everyone is close to someone — family members, relatives, friends or colleagues. People who are in financial difficulties also need hope for the future, hope that this will be overcome. One solution is an increase in the protective part of enforcement. This has already been proposed by the Centre during the last parliamentary term. It would make work more profitable for many people and reduce the need to rely on income support.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u133	Mr President! Thank you, Congressman. To Huttu on this important question. It is, of course, as you suggested, that too many Finns are over-indebted and that too many economies suffer from the fact that money is simply not enough. This government wants to invest in this problem of over-indebtedness. That's why we're adding debt advisors. We want people in the future, including our children and our young people, to understand the economy better than today, to understand what interest is and what a quickie is, what it means if you take out a loan — that the loan must also be repaid — and what the cost of the loan is. This good government programme has also, as the representative has pointed out, dealt with this protective part of enforcement, and the Ministry of Justice is now launching this project. The intention is to improve the position of the over-indebted here. However:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u134	Next question, the Greens' Parliament Group, representative Soinikoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u135	Madam President! There was a valuable and important debate in this Chamber earlier this week on how to tackle the exclusion of children and young people. The capacity for good parliamentary child strategy work can be found across party boundaries, and the prevention of exclusion is a common goal for all of us. The overgeneration of child welfare clients and the underprivileged are inherited. There are over 18,000 children placed outside the home, most of whom had received income support. Unemployment, long-term illnesses and inadequate mental health and substance abuse services are highlighted in the background of detention. I would ask Minister Kiuru: how will family centres be integrated into the activities of future social centres?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u136	Mr President! They will, because this is the decision of the government. And today we just did.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u140	Next question, Swedish Parliament Group, representative Norrback.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u141	Mr President, ärade talman! Finlands export till Storbritannien var Senaste år värd över 2.8 billion euros, 4.5 percent av vår totala export. Utrikesministeriet uppskattar att det bor ungefär 20,000 finländare i Storbritannien. Både vår export och vardagen för våra medborgare bosata i Storbritannien riskerar att rubbas med brexit. Att Storbritannien nu lämnar EU är lla både för Storbritannien och för EU och inte minst för Finland. Hur ska vi garantera att våra företag kan fortsätta sina handelsrelationer med Storbritannieen effecter brexit?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u142	Madam President! Thank you for this timely question. By looking into the calendar, we can see that the time limit for Brexit is approaching. This time it has been set by the end of October, and we must be prepared for everything.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u145	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 1/2019 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u146	Madam President! In order for Finland to flourish in the mood of change, we need a bold future house under Parliament, Sitra, whose task is to build tomorrow's successful Finland. Thank you very much for a clear and thought-provoking annual report entitled ‘From Words to Future Works’. I personally got to know Sitra in connection with the 100th anniversary of the Finnish Challenges Competition. I participated with the Haaste.io team in the finals of the competition, during which we received very high-quality training and training to solve terrible problems. Very different teams were bumped into each other, made to learn from each other. There was a whole new kind of interaction. In the interest of education, it would be worthwhile to organise challenge contests in the future, as long as separate series are implemented with the idea of starting right from the beginning. Education for the future is one of Sitra’s most important tasks, as Finland’s success is based on excellence and lifelong learning for everyone in Finland. There is also a need for trust and internationalism. Sitra is a changer with the power and responsibility to tackle the complex challenges of the future. Its task is to smell the megatrends that shape the world, to map the directions of Finland's future, to act as an importer of opportunities and to formulate new opportunities and to stimulate reforms. I am particularly convinced that Sitra combines thinking and doing things. It serves as a think-tank and execution workshop, which is based on the knowledge and vision that has been studied. This is how it builds a strong foundation for change. Sitra trains, finances, brings together, convenes and communicates extensive networks. At the heart of all activity is doing things together. Mr President! The themes raised by Sitra vary and should vary according to trends. I am making two withdrawals from this excellent report: one is an approach, and the other is a broader, fundamental principle. Sitra has developed a dialogue-based "Small Break" method, which is an approach to a constructive social debate. That is what we here in the Chamber are meant to do in a civilised manner. A break is an opportunity to stop and think things over in peace. Roles, titles and syllabuses are thrown aside and spoken equally. Anyone can bring people from different backgrounds together and talk. There is also a desire to include those who are not generally reached. Such dialogue strengthens democracy and creates trust. That's what our society needs so much, right now. Secondly, I would like to raise the issue of lifelong learning, which is a civil right and also a duty for us. Let's keep ourselves informed. Man learns all his life, we'll never be finished. The ability to learn new things is a life-supporting force. It enables us to succeed, develop and rejoice in our accomplishments. It'll help you through a gray rock. The importance of life-long learning is emphasised when digitalisation and globalisation shape our lives, working life and communities at an unprecedented pace. Finland’s well-being and competitiveness are built on knowledge. We can't let it rust. The renewal of knowledge will be one of the key tasks of our society in the coming years. The challenge of new learning also applies to the working-age population regardless of the educational background. That is why it is important for the parliamentary working group on continuing learning to begin work as soon as possible under the Government Programme. I look forward to this work. Mr President! As the committee's report says, independence requires responsibility and an open relationship with society from Sitra. Transparency and evaluation of activities are needed. A functional dialogue between Parliament and Sitra is needed. Cooperation between the various actors is needed. In 2018, Parliament clarified Sitra's role as a public actor. It was necessary. Sitra should continue to be a sufficient traveler on its own road, taking risks as well. Sitra must retain its independent, experimental and forward-looking approach. This is how it brings culture and entrepreneurial attitude to Finland and decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u147	Mr President! Sitra has brought a lot of added value to the way Finnish society has discussed, modernised and also boosted the culture of experimentation. Sitra’s wealth capital has given it a good opportunity to look boldly at a wide range of new approaches to the Finnish economy. I was part of this parliamentary working group, which was responsible for evaluating Sitra’s role, administration and funding. In that working group, we went through Sitra's mission very thoroughly. On the basis of this evaluation team, we will soon be faced with new legislative projects to reform Sitra, which will increasingly improve Sitra’s ability to function. One of the key issues in Sitra’s future activities is that its parliamentary approach will also be increased. One of the key points of this working group was that it stated that it was good that Sitra’s Board of Directors had representation of all parties and not just some large groups. I believe that this is the right way to deal with a community that is completely under parliamentary control and which uses public funds that have been richly blessed. I look forward to this bill and I hope that it will take into account all that this parliamentary working party in its report this spring has left for information and hope.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u148	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to what Mr Laukkanen said earlier, namely that the Fund for the Year of Independence is a fund for the whole of Parliament and, I might say, a fund for the people as a whole, and in the sense that parliamentary governance models are being implemented, is extremely important. And, of course, if you think of Sitra’s role as an enabler of new ideas, openings, training, networking, in that sense too, it is quite difficult to think that the governance model could be tilted in some way. Well, perhaps from these recent Sitra studies these climate-related openings have also been the subject of public debate. Of course, it is good that the debate is going on and on, but I have to say that this spring, when Sitra came out – I do not know whether there was some media-coloured – with the message that Finns should stop private driving and stop eating meat and drinking milk, it is quite clear that these kinds of openings will further exacerbate the debate that is taking place in Finland around the topic. In that sense always hopes that when you do this kind of conversation-opening, you will also remember what climate they are brought to. And then, on the other hand, the fact that if it is intended to promote climate change prevention, then perhaps it also matters how the message is put on. In this 30-step program, Sitra’s opening wanted to show how Finland is capable of greater emission reductions, and it was thought that by 2030 at least about 75 per cent of the Finnish population would have to make these emission reductions — many of them quite radical. And if you look at the climate in Finland, it is true that it was actually thought that this private car was just going over the edge of e-biking or cycling, given the circumstances in different parts of Finland and the fact that, for example, we do not have much public transport available in the countryside. And then, in this study, too, there was such a confrontation, which led to a strong start on the agricultural industry’s guilt. However, since then other reports have come in which it has been said that these agricultural emissions are in fact considerably less than what was imagined, and in that sense this raising of a single industry did not serve it here either. But all in all, you could say that Sitra has done an excellent job over the decades, and one must hope that this is the kind of research independence that will remain at Sitra. It is the best future work that can be done in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u149	Mr President! Sitra is a strong factor for the future. During more than half a century of its operations, Sitra has carried out a very worthwhile research effort independently and independently, and now that legislation is being reformed on Sitra, I would like this same approach to be maintained. The Parliament is, of course, the body supervising it, but it also allows Parliament to give Sitra a free hand because in Finland we need a research institute that dares to take risks to investigate things that others might not go along with at all because it involves a financial risk. I believe that this is the first condition that must be maintained, independence, independence to act as a researcher in various projects, to study new things, even things that, for example, so-called corporate money would not be investigated at all, and where access to public money could be difficult, for example, through some projects. Sitra needs to maintain its independence, and this is only ensured by its continued autonomy in the use of the money. At the time, over five decades ago, the capitalisation of Sitra was carried out and must remain independent. It can, of course, manage these normal operating costs and other costs and then finance these projects, various projects and studies, some of them even think a little wild ideas. Such freedom must exist for such an actor, and it very well describes Sitra's original idea of action, which set it in motion, that we have an actor in Finland who is able to look towards the future without prejudice. Sitra is the house of the future, and it must remain that way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u150	Mr President! Indeed, Sitra is a future house whose task is to look forward with courage, to reform our thinking and to challenge our current operating models, while seeking new solutions to the challenges of our time and, in particular, of the future. This is how Sitra has defined and explained its role. I can agree with these comments that Sitra's independent and independent operating model must indeed be guaranteed. Sitra does not actually do extensive research itself, but makes use of the research carried out in universities, and cooperation with universities and critical evaluation of information is at the heart of Sitra’s work. It was also pointed out that Sitra needs to be able to evaluate its activities. In universities and the scientific community, this is done through peer review, among other things. There is hardly any better model for evaluating Sitra’s research data than the one commonly used in universities. Yes, it must be pointed out that there will then be no situations in which there will be an operating model other than good and reliable knowledge in the future. It is wonderful that constant learning and education were brought up here, and in fact the Ministry of Finance raised it in this Question Time. It is known that education already guarantees better employment, and all the most recent expert consultations have told us since the OECD that, in the future, the majority of jobs will be created in sectors where training is needed. This is also extremely important when we assess where the state should invest. It is great that the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also highlights this independent role. There is no doubt that questions will also be raised in Sitra’s Board of Directors and in future Boards of Directors, where there is indeed greater parliamentary representation, as to how this independent position, based on high-quality research data, will remain and how it can be further developed. One must also be critical of what the outcome of one’s own work is. That's how we always evolve. And it has to be said that technology optimism must not overpower the mind, but must always weigh down the drawbacks of each technology or of each idea, its advantages and how we could improve further. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u151	Mr President! When Sitra was founded in 1967, it was connected to the Bank of Finland in a certain way. However, it was not formed as a limited liability company or as an association or a foundation, but was somewhat unclear in its legal position. This position was tested here a few years ago in such a way that a journalist wanted Sitra to have access to some of the project's documents, and that was when Sitra had to decide whether or not the publicity legislation was affecting Sitra. I think it was one of the engines that turned it into a reform of Sitra's administration, and now legislation is being brought about. This clarifies Sitra's administrative position and, of course, removes it from the Bank of Finland's connection so that Sitra can have its own Board of Directors and thus perhaps even more autonomy. Here, in the last paragraph of its report, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is entitled ‘Complete observations’. These are important issues in view of Sitra’s public position on the one hand, and the amount of resources at its disposal and, on the other hand, the things it spends its resources and intellectual resources on. On the one hand, it is important to have such an independent, independent status, but also transparency and transparency in everything, both in the use of funds and in research. On the one hand, we have to accept that, as the report says, there is also a risk of failure and, of course, this must be avoided, and it must always be addressed, but, on the other hand, it is one of the characteristics of this type of activity. Hopefully, Sitra will continue to work for the benefit of society as a whole, as it has done to date.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u152	Mr President! This topic and the related discussion at Sitra has become much more familiar with recently, as a member of the Board of Directors, which in fact ended with me on the previous subject, so I would like to comment in a free and informed way from the perspective of an external consultant. Such an observation was made during this time that Sitra’s image is not currently among the citizens, when talking on the street, nothing is the best possible. People often come to say that they don't really know what Sitra is doing at all, what it's good for Finns, and that it's just the finale of former politicians and the protective work. So the focus is lost, and we should find it again. From the perspective of the future, it would be very important for the house itself to carry out self-examination of what Sitra should do, what its role is in society and what it should focus on. However, it is not possible to go to things that nobody else does, because it is not economically viable, that can lead to money being wasted on waste. Now, in my opinion, this work and the way of thinking became a fairly heavy backward step, when a type of civil servant was chosen to maintain the former office. When there is obviously no appeal from the point of view of the Chief Ombudsman to improve this matter, it will still be responsible for this new type of board of directors, which will be chosen for Sitra. These MPs must guide Sitra's work in the direction that citizens feel that it is actually a useful place for themselves in society.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u153	Mr President! I very much appreciate Sitra's work in promoting a carbon-neutral circular economy in particular. After all, Sitra was founded when Finland turned 50, as its name says: The Fund for the centenary of Finland’s independence. Now that Finland has already turned over 100, it is clear that climate change is being curbed and industrial societies are being developed in such a way that we do not throw materials into a suspense, but recycle all the material that would be becoming waste at its original disposal. In this work Sitra has worked very well, advised political decision-makers, companies and also citizens. This work by Sitra also supports the approach adopted by the seven present-day parliamentary parties, the five present government parties and the present opposition parties, in their joint climate agenda last December, which committed, among other things, to Finland achieving a situation in the 40s where our greenhouse gas emissions are clearly negative, i.e. Finland using sinks to remove more greenhouse gas emissions from the atmosphere than we produce, and that electricity and heat production should be almost non-emissions by the end of the next decade. On the basis of these objectives, the Government Programme has also been built with some precision and rigour, and I think Sitra’s work is very important to support us political decision-makers in this. As far as the winch given to citizens is concerned, that is what the citizens are always asking. I personally regret the fact that so many people feel that climate change mitigation is primarily the responsibility of voluntary citizens' choices. No major environmental reforms of the past, such as the cleaning of waste water from factories or the elimination of ozone-depleting Freons, were made by voluntary citizens' choices, but by the adoption of laws and emission limits. It is also needed in climate action. To Sitra's next leader, Jyrki Katainen, I wish him well in his work. He has been the Vice-President of the Commission in the EU Commission who has just replied:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u154	Mr President! Sitra has really consolidated its own activities in Finnish society in carrying out and producing independent research, and that independence must, of course, continue to be taken care of. However, we are now working on Sitra's own board of directors, which is built on a parliamentary basis. Now that Minister Lintilä is here, I take this opportunity to ask: when these new regulations, the guidelines, are coming, how will they affect Sitra’s activities? — The Minister will raise his hand there that the wrong Minister, but if there were any information on this, I would not be sorry at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u155	Mr President! Sitra has done a lot of important work, the effectiveness of which can be measured. However, as has been mentioned here before, I agree and agree with what has been said that we must also dare to take risks and experiment on which we do not really know what to think about them yet. We all know, of course, that the circular economy is something that will become established in our society and economy and should be promoted, but it is also the task of an organisation such as Sitra to reform practices, for example, and also to think about phenomena that we do not know much about yet, so perhaps even more interesting than the circular economy is what next.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u156	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u157	Mr President! Dear Minister, colleagues and others present! It is good that Mr Lintilä, the Minister of Finance responsible for taxation, is here, but I would have liked to see Mr Marin, when it comes to transport and transport taxation, also present in the context of the debate on the referral of this citizens' initiative. I personally feel that these citizens' initiatives are a very important and important part of our democracy and democracy, and yesterday we saw in the Chamber that the Minister was not present, and today the Minister for Transport is not listening to this debate and taking part in it. But I would like to thank you for the presence of Minister Lintilä, who is responsible for taxation. In this citizens' initiative, which collected signatures very quickly, it is proposed to abolish the power tax on die-reels. The power tax on diesel cars or the way it has been introduced is in fact a little more complex than might be implied in this citizens' initiative. It is not to compensate for differences between fuels there with a gas or diesel tank, but to compensate for differences between petrol and diesel due to fuel taxation. This is the bigger question here, and that is why I will not go any deeper into this debate than in this debate, which is the background to this citizens' initiative, because I myself have wanted to read this citizens' initiative as a bigger opening-up. The reason for this initiative is the fact that diesel may have increased significantly over the last year or so, and in many places, many service stations, diesel is currently paying almost the same amount as gas, and I think that at some point there was a situation in some stations even the other way around. The price of diesel has thus risen, as there has been an oversupply of petrol on the world market and a shortage of diesel on the one hand. This is the steak of this citizens' initiative, where it starts. And that is why I support this idea, but I am approaching this from a slightly larger whole, and that is why I would have hoped that the Minister for Transport would also have been present in this debate. After all, the total amount of taxes collected from traffic in Finland is around 8.4 billion, and last year a record was actually recorded in this total tax amount. The taxes therefore consist of car taxes, fuel taxes, vehicle taxes, taxes on transport and car insurance, VAT on cars and their various components and taxes on maintenance, and thus away. Of these, the largest single tax item for transport is the fuel tax, which amounted to around three billion last year. A fifth of the taxes on passenger car transport are collected as a car tax related to the purchase of a car, which is the place of its own debate, it amounts to about 1 billion in government revenue. And the car tax has actually been seen in a number of statements by the very person who has slowed down this renewal of our car fleet, and this is something that I am a little concerned about even now in the new government that the car tax will not be tackled in such a way as the previous government intended that it was being phased out and that it would not be produced so much. At the individual level, if you look at this situation, it is a time of normal, rather limited use of a passenger car, 14000 kilometres per year, that is to say, only special taxes on motor vehicles go to around EUR 1,400 without VAT — that is to say, we know how to tax motor vehicles. I personally hope that this issue will be approached as a bigger issue so that we can see the whole of car taxation more sensible and encouraging to be able to acquire newer cars through the reduction or eventually abolition of the car tax, but also so that the way in which the car is going and what comes out of its exhaust pipe is decisive in the way in which it is being taxed — and this is not happening at the moment. In fact, there are some worrying messages: MY diesel, which is clean, 95% less CO2 produced, 100% of waste and scrap fuel, is currently worth about 20 to 30 cents more in our tank than that traditional black diesel. And now it would be better to do a tax job that way — of course, even now it is supported a little more, but it should be so — that clean diesel would be cheaper on the pole than that black diesel. In my own speech, I would like to raise this whole issue and, on the other hand, the fact that the government, in its own programme, has set very ambitious reductions in CO2 emissions from transport by 2030 and, unfortunately, I do not think that these measures, which have now been on the table, will be able to be achieved, because our car fleet still seems to be getting older and the government has not actually brought in any measure that is in the process of reforming the car fleet. But I therefore support this citizens' initiative, its basic thinking: that we should approach it in a different way and not in this way, which has hitherto been the case with the taxation of transport as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u158	Mr President! The citizens' initiative on the abolition of the power tax on diesel cars — it is important. It is great that the active people are able to take these popular initiatives: collect the necessary signatures so that the initiatives reach this point here in Parliament and are discussed. So thank you to those who have taken the initiative! Let's repeat the old hymn, which is a fact: Finland is a sparsely populated country, where distances stretch, especially in sparsely populated areas, to very long distances. In practice, this means that a car is absolutely essential for the smooth running and movement of many Finnish everyday life. In Finland, cars cost a lot and operating costs are high. Vehicle tax, fuel tax, insurance premiums and survey fees contribute to increasing the annual expenditure of motorists. Private motoring swallows up an unreasonably large proportion of the income of many households. The True Finns’ line is to oppose the discipline of motorists with an excessive tax burden. In fact, our programme states that ‘in Finland, as a result of the car tax, vehicles are subject to exceptionalcosts,in addition to which motorists pay vehicle tax,high fuel Therefore, this citizens' initiative is very much in line with what the Finns also support: a private motorist cannot be unduly punished by the government, including the transport sector and companies. Mr President! The abolition of the power tax on diesel-fuelled cars would reduce costs for some motorists, which is a step in the right direction, but I call on the government to take more rapid action to reduce the price tag on motor vehicles. In addition to single car drivers, the heavy fuel price tag suffers, for example, farmers and hauliers. For them, even a small percentage increase may mean a substantial increase in costs. Should not the activities of entrepreneurs also be promoted rather than combed by the government? Unfortunately, at the moment it only seems that the government under the leadership of Minister Marin is going to chastise motorists right behind us in the next less than four years. The government should wake up to the fact that a large number of Finns are living inaccessible to public transport. It is not right for them to be pumped off, so to speak, from the point of view of everyday driving. It is now high time for the government and the Minister to take a time-out and to rethink the political lines of driving and taxation of liquid fuels and to make the necessary translations in the direction of reason. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u159	Mr President! As a member of the Committee on Finance and Transport, I would like to thank the authors of the citizens' initiative for raising an important issue. This is clearly something that people are interested in, because I understand that the signatures of this citizens' initiative were collected in record time — in just a few days over 100,000 signatures. It's about a lot of interest. As with most citizens' initiatives, this includes a message. The citizens' initiative sends a message to political decision-makers that you should take the matter in this direction. It is an important direction, not by which section or by which point it is taken, but by the fact that things change in the right way. I believe that the message here is that private cars are necessary for long distances in our country and that private cars are already costing far too much and that instead of creating additional costs for driving, as the government is planning to do, we should, on the contrary, reduce the cost of driving while also trying to direct more money towards the maintenance of the road network. I absolutely agree with this message. Unfortunately, the taxation of transport as such on fuel and everything else has become a very complicated lever and a system in which changing one thing would affect another. Changing the structure of taxation on diesel fuel would result in the tax impact of hundreds of millions, which should also take account of the aspects of professional transport. I would like to see that the concern and will attitude expressed in the citizens' initiative should be addressed by an overall report on transport taxes, which would correct and correct this and other shortcomings which may be included in the taxation of different fuels. At the same time, care would be taken to ensure that this change in taxation would not lead to an excessive increase in pump prices, as could be the case in some thinking models. I believe that it should be the case that transport treats different types of fuel and power in a technologically neutral way, i.e. that we do not favour any particular fuel or, on the other hand, penalises the use of special fuel. Taxation should be fair. Above all, in driving, taxation should be predictable. After the apartment, the car is the second largest investment for a very large number of people, its acquisition is a matter of long-term reflection, and now, if rapid movements are made, it will have major economic consequences for very large groups of people. During the previous Minister of Transport in particular, direct market failures were created by the government through various openings which were interpreted as quick-to-run, even though they were intended as long-term objectives. Communication should be careful not to cause market disruption to the car market. The Finnish fleet of cars is already very old. It should be able to be reformed. The problem is not easy at any point, but we politicians must find solutions to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u160	Representative Kankaanniemi — absent. Minister Lintila at this point, about three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u161	Mr President! First of all, thank you to the citizens' initiative makers. It is good that we raise these issues in the debate, and on the other hand it is good that Parliament is discussing them. Transport will be one of the sectors that will perhaps change most in the next few years or, it is said, the next decade. And I am sure there will always be a debate, which is the price of diesel and petrol at that time. We all know that one drone attack will change the price considerably more than we can do here in Parliament. The most important thing now would be to find a common idea of what our taxation of transport will be in the future, because I claim that all the parties that are currently sitting in Parliament will still be in a position to reflect on it in the responsibilities of the government. In other words, this is a very good opening of a bigger debate, and the Ministry of Finance has already set up a working group to discuss and carry out reforms to meet the longer-term needs of transport taxation. As such, considering the power tax as an individual is a bit weak. We will have to look at the whole, because if we were to go to the point where the power tax alone would be abolished, the price difference would be about 26 cents per litre in terms of the transfer of pressure, and I do not think that this change in tax relief would be very willing — it would be the pressure of our own on the pump — but that we could go through this whole thing is absolutely the most important thing. It should be borne in mind that it is likely, very likely, in the future that the State will not collect tax revenue on fuels in the same way as it does at present — not on fuel tax, not on diesel tax, nor on other taxes, nor on VAT, because car consumption is falling, more is going on electric cars, hybrids and so on. I have not yet heard in this Chamber for the last 20 years that I have been here that anyone would have told me terribly about the options to compensate for the loss of billions. Just as Mr Mäkelä said — or was Heinonen who said — about 9 billion is what is being collected. We all have to think about what we're gonna do to make up for that loss. It is certainly such a debate that I hope that this evening you will have a good debate and also give us the Ministry of Finance, the working group of the Ministry of Finance, which are the means and the long-term big lines by which the taxation of Finnish transport, Finnish transport in general, will be developed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u162	Mr President! I would like to thank those who have signed up to the citizens' initiative and, indeed, it is not unclear what message this group has given us — indeed, more than 100,000 names, quite quickly. It tells me that the crowd is starting to measure up, and I really don’t blame myself for that. Mr Heinonen raised an important issue with me — I think that citizens' initiatives are very important, and I could imagine that the whole of our Parliament and ministers will also respect it and that, when it comes to this kind of own-initiative, there would also be a minister in the sector. The pump price is, at the moment, scandalous for diesel. It also makes it a problem that the value of diesel cars will disappear, because at the moment the so-called operating charges for diesel will be so high without the price of its hard diesel. I can tell you from my own family that there is not a very expensive car in the yard, which it costs almost a thousand euros a year to stand in the yard. I know the folly of this whole system in that form, but the present government is probably not going to make any change in this regard. For professional transport, such a pump price is indeed a terrible situation. Competitiveness with competitors from Europe is beginning to be the kind of thing that cuts off branches. Likely, these pump prices will also see a wave of bankruptcy if the present government does not finally implement the commercial diesel that central transport organisations have long wanted. However, I would like to point out the fact that the current government and probably the next government will not be able to come up with very many places where the replacement of this so-called pump price reduction would be found or any other style. However, I find it very worrying that we should move to the charging side in these matters, because I really do not see the point in starting to pay taxes on cars for so-called ownership. Yes, it has to be so that they pay who they use. In any case, thank you to the initiative and the signatories for their good work and for the really quick collection of names. It is good that these issues are discussed and that we are able to get more involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u163	Mr President! I must thank my colleagues: I think there has been an excellent, constructive, spiritual debate here. I myself understand very well where this initiative comes from. I think there is such concern about the conditions for living and trying in areas where journeys are long, and this has been well mentioned here. At the same time, it is clear that the time for our fossil economy will soon be over. It has to be over, or else we're gonna build this planet into an unbearable place before long. On the other hand, for example, recent events such as: In Saudi Arabia it is quite concretely demonstrated, and it reminds us that dependence on fossil energy creates sensitivity, such addictions that are difficult to control. I think that Mr Lintilä has made an excellent contribution to this debate, which has highlighted the fact that the fiscal logic of our transport policy is, in any case, being renewed. Before long, we need to think about how we collect the funds that we are now used to collecting from fuel. So we have a need to do this sort of controlled and fair change, and I would like this hall from the side to the side to think about how it is done, and not to maintain the idea that everything can go on as before, if only not to do anything, because that is the option we do not have. In many ways, we have these difficult challenges that need to be tackled. That is why I think it is really important to bring this, and perhaps to encourage the government to do such a road map and a strategy-type approach, which will consider how to fix this job, what our transport system will be in ten years' time, what the steps are and what kind of steps are, instead of paying too much attention to a single issue at a time and then stating why it will not work. I also think this is a good point that this is a message from those who take the initiative, and I think that this message should be heard in an adequate and correct way and think about what kind of answers we can provide. Those answers are neither easy nor simple, but we are here to decide things that are difficult. That's why we're here. I will listen with interest to the further discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u164	Mr President! Thank you very much for this excellent initiative, which is now an opportunity for us to discuss the cost of driving in Finland. When you look at this explanatory text, which is in practice a single paragraph, it simply states that the use tax — which came in time and which was supposed to become temporary but which remained permanent — should be abolished. No one in Finland is as taxed as a motorist. The tax burden is heavy on a Finnish motorist. Yet we are beginning to have the worst road network in the whole of the Nordic countries. Collect nearly 9 billion, give less than 2 billion to road maintenance. This is an injustice that affects all of us. We've got a network that's in such bad shape that it's almost 80 minutes away from being able to drive. In other parts of the world, developed countries drive 300 kilometers an hour on these trains. Public transport does not work, it is expensive, it does not attract. Even in the capital region, transversal traffic is so poor and inefficient that it almost encourages the purchase of a car. In Espoo, West Metro was built — it had to cost 700 million, it cost 3 billion. Its efficiency is still negative for 50 years to come. I'm not against the subway. I'm against the West Metro. This caused people to travel about an hour and a half more per day. Mr President! In Finland, if I have understood correctly — correct me — 90% of the goods move on rubber wheels. Now that we are discussing car taxation, it is good to say out loud that, even if every government in turn increases the car tax and puts more pressure on the motorist, the result is always that — because that car is so vital to us, almost sacred cow, as someone said — that motoring does not decrease by a mile, but all those increases are out of consumption, what people spend money on every day. It's perfectly clear. When we still have the majority of the country, it is absolutely necessary to use the car.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u171	Mr President! On my own behalf and also on behalf of the Centre's parliamentary group, I would like to warmly thank the people who initiated this citizens' initiative. This debate also shows that 125,000 signatories want to highlight the cost of driving and, above all, of driving. And also the Minister. Thank you to Lintilä for being able, as Minister of Finance, to be here at least for some time during this debate — we know the urgency of the ministers. He also mentioned matters relating to this matter and, of course, as Minister of Finance, he is specifically responsible for tax matters. When you look at this citizens' initiative, I agree with the authors of the initiative that, especially in Northern Finland — but I would extend it so that this is the case in almost the whole of Finland — you cannot get along without a car. Public transport does not play in practice like in the capital region or in some region of Tampere; in almost all Finland, public transport does not play in practice and a passenger car is needed, each of us needs it. But then this issue of the abolition of the power tax on diesel cars. Yes, I would see that the examination of a power tax as a single issue is not necessarily justified, but that the whole tax structure of transport should be assessed as a whole, and it should be assessed as a whole, how it is collected, where it is collected and also what it is used for. This issue has also been addressed in the Government Programme, the Government negotiations. When I was allowed to be on the side of the transport sector in the government negotiations, it was precisely the desire to see the taxation of all traffic and motor vehicles as a whole and to make overall decisions. Mr Lintilä has already said in his own speech that the Ministry has also drawn attention to this issue and has already taken it forward. In practice, the working group on the reform of taxation in transport has already begun its work and it is also hoped that concrete proposals will be made in the future. The Government Programme also called for attention to be paid, above all, to this diesel, and stated that if the taxation of transport, and especially of diesel, were to be reformed, then, as has already been said by the representative, The valley, here in its own speech, pointed out — in this context, the possibilities for the introduction of commercial biodiesel must be explored. This has also been, above all, the will of heavy traffic stakeholders and the will of professionals. It is one part of this big picture, and I personally hope that this too will be taken into account in the overall review. But, above all, we need to reform the taxation of the entire motor vehicle industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u172	Mr President! I would like to thank the citizens' initiative makers. I will also interpret it as a kind of emergency cry for action, particularly in the report of the Transport Climate Policy Group. In my opinion, this is a form of propulsion persecution in a certain way. Since I can no longer thank Minister Lintilä for having left — he can then read these thanks for the Minutes — I would like to thank the honourable Members, Mr Heinonen and Mr Laukkane, for their excellent contributions. Instead, I would have liked Minister Marin to have been here. This is, of course, a matter of central concern to his administration. There was also reference to electric cars, for example. When I was talking about the problem of propulsion, the attitude towards diesel is already quite remarkable in the sense that, for example, the emissions of this Neste’s MY diesel as a fuel per kilometre are about 12 grams of carbon dioxide and then, for example, if it is estimated from Motiva’s calculations that it takes 0.2 kilowatt hours for a kilometre, then the corresponding CO2 emissions of a full electric car, when charged from the Finnish electricity grid, are actually 29 grams, or considerably more. Doesn't that sound rather strange? Tomorrow, after all, there will be another strike in front of the climate, and it will undoubtedly be the motorists who are responsible for this again. I think it is our responsibility to also highlight in the discussions the appropriateness of diesel for Finland, that is to say, if we look at Neste's biodiesel, it is our domestic product and, in particular, very important, not only for transport companies, but also for our export sector as a whole. The terrible majority of our exports, contrary to what may be commonly believed, are based on this kind of bulk product, and now that these increases have again been directed at these biofuels, I would ask for some consideration in this regard in the future, which are really our success products. Finally, I would like to say that the contradiction here is that it is usually a question of where billions will come from — here we talked about 9 billion, how it will be covered — but this is also a very central question of the other end of the cake, which is our own export withdrawal. All the increases that are made, whether they are made out of good motives or not, such as diesel, are directly targeted at the other end. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u173	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. First of all, I would like to thank the authors of this citizens' initiative and the authors of all citizens' initiatives, regardless of what the content is. I think it is very valuable that citizens' initiatives are being taken. It is hard work to collect this kind of number of names, and I hope that every citizens' initiative will receive their due treatment and will be handled carefully. It has been pointed out that ministers are not present when citizens' initiatives are being discussed. I think it would be valuable if the ministers were here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u180	I would remind Members that the citizens' initiative to abolish the power tax on diesel cars is now under discussion. Let's have a conversation on this subject. — Representative Marttinen gives us an example.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u181	Mr President! I will do my best to comply with the President's instructions. — Ladies and gentlemen! The citizens' initiative proposes to abolish the power tax on diesel cars. I consider this citizens' initiative to be an important contribution and a demonstration of people's concern about the high costs of driving. I fully understand this, and that too must be remembered by us in this Chamber. During this debate, I have also come to the same conclusion as Mr Heinonen and I understand this citizens' initiative as a broader debate on the cost of driving, not just on the power tax, although it is the citizens' initiative itself, but also more broadly on how the cost of driving has evolved. The purpose of the power tax was to balance the differences between the tax levels for passenger cars in terms of petrol and diesel, rather than the price difference that is directly visible in petrol pumps. It is therefore a broader and more complex issue, and I hope that this concern raised in the citizens' initiative will be strongly raised when the government is preparing for this larger reform of transport taxation. It is justified to go over the whole package of transport taxation, all taxes and how the current system works. This initiative provides an excellent basis for this work. However, this does not remove the important issue raised by those who take the initiative. So many people feel that the cost of driving has risen, and as we know here, because of long distances in Finland working and family business, the use of a private car is a necessity for the majority of Finns. Against that background, I find it extraordinary that right now that this citizens' initiative is being discussed in this Chamber, in fact, the government has not heard this concern of people. On the contrary. We have just heard that the government intends to increase fuel taxation by EUR 250 million next year. That means an increase of about six cents to the pump prices of petrol and diesel, which people will see next August when their cars are refueling.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u184	Mr President! Well, it's nice to hear a clear talk about something important. I would like to thank Mr Martti for his excellent speech. Mr President! Indeed, I am concerned that when we discuss a citizens' initiative, signed by more than 125,000 Finns, and when we talk about transport taxation, with which the state collects more than EUR 8 billion per year, the ministry is completely empty. This cannot be the case when we talk about one of our most important everyday life and also one of the factors affecting the state economy. [Ari Torniainen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u188	Mr. Speaker! I too would like to thank the citizens' initiative for this initiative, which has brought about an important and even expert debate in this House on the issue of the propulsion tax on diesel cars, and, in this context, on the taxation of transport as a whole. As many Members have said here, there is a need for a wide-ranging examination. I am confident that now that this initiative is being sent to the Committee on Finance and its tax section, the expert members of the tax section, in consultation with experts, will make a good report on this in peace, in depth and thus give Parliament's guidelines to the government, with a view to what the citizens' initiative is aiming at. A rapid change can hardly be achieved, but this whole, the whole of transport taxation, needs to be reformed as soon as possible. It contains a great many details that have been raised in this debate and I will not repeat them. However, I would like to point out that, for example, this issue of commercial diesel is something that needs to be taken seriously, and the taxation of foreign vehicles needs to be dealt with. They were still unfinished or unfinished, and people are waiting and operators are waiting to move forward in this regard. Mr President! A sixth of the state budget is covered by transport taxes, and this has always been the case, or at least since I have been here. I started over 30 years ago, and ever since then, every autumn, we have talked about the excessive taxation of transport, and every government, every parliament, has increased it so that about a sixth of the total of the state budget is covered by transport taxation. Which means it's become just like this. Of course, it is not easy to look for alternatives, as the Minister also pointed out. This money will cover many good needs, and so there must be a counterpart if this is to be significantly reduced. But it must be different from what the current government is planning. Last autumn, seven parliamentary parties concluded a joint agreement on climate policy, and yes, the implementation of that agreement, implementation, means for the Finnish family, worker, pensioners that their traffic taxes are being tightened. The Finns did not go into this agreement. We simply considered it unrealistic. And, as Mr Autto has just said, there must be realistic models, procedures. You, too, have committed yourself to such an agreement on climate policy in Finland when you hunt for a global reduction in global climate emissions, that it is a costly drop for Finnish entrepreneurs, Finnish families and especially for working middle-income people. [Ari Torniainen’s interlude] We are not going into unrealistic promises. With regard to this initiative, too, we are not going to promise that this will happen immediately, but this initiative will show us where to go. However, we must always take into account the circumstances in which a person lives, in what kind of work he is in, in what kind of travel needs it involves, in what kind of family there is — if there are more children — a larger car, perhaps two cars to the family — and so on, and then as one factor, this environmental aspect too, realistically.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u191	Mr President! There have been excellent speeches here, and I must say that such fine speeches deserve to be heard by ministers, quite frankly throughout the Guard.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u194	Mr President! Yes, we have a Finnish motorist who is a moth. Finnish motorists, transport, collect EUR 8.4 billion of different taxes annually. And now, with the support of the city centre, the Rinte government is going to further increase the tax burden on motor vehicles. Diesel is currently as expensive as gas, at times more expensive, and now several hundred euros are being paid, even if the diesel car is not actually a meter. Actually, it's totally crazy. And in this situation, the government is tightening the gas tax and the diesel tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u197	Mr Heinonen has now proposed that the matter be put on the table on Wednesday 2 October. the meeting to be held. So it stays on the table. Are there any other suggestions as to when to put them on the table? So now we're talking about the time of the table setting. Are there any other suggestions for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u198	Mr President! On the basis of the above, I support Mr Heinonen's proposal and I very much hope that we will then get both the Minister of Transport and, more broadly, the people in that ministerial box to attend this important debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u199	This is a debate on the timing of the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-26-ps-38.u200	The debate on the table is closed.
