ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-18-ps-144.u1	Partly, in part, for a second reading will be presented in order of 3. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 35/2018 vp will be decided on the basis of a single reading of the agreement and then on the legislative proposal at second reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-18-ps-144.u2	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-18-ps-144.u3	Madam President! Here we have the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy on the abolition of the minimum capital of a limited company, so that the sum of EUR 2 thousand, which is precisely the sum, does not necessarily have to be put together if you want to start trying in the form of a limited liability company or even the management of assets as a limited liability company. This is part of it, isn't it? The more red tape in the Sipilä regime, the better regulation of standards and the less regulation that has been done during the parliamentary term, and I personally am very pleased that the government has submitted this proposal. If that is what I was looking at, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs was apparently even unanimous on this issue, and I thank the committee for that. The committee rightly states in its report that this will facilitate, among other things, the creation of micro-enterprises, perhaps even start-up entrepreneurship. Personally, I think it is a very good thing that entrepreneurs are now more free to consider for themselves what is the right form of enterprise, the Community form of self-employment: whether it is a business name, as is usually the case with a small business, whether it is an open company, a limited company, or whether it is immediately going to a limited company. However, the limited liability company, Mr President, is a little safer in general. When it comes to the legal separation between the entrepreneur and the company’s assets, it may be a little safer in certain situations, even though the bank usually has to make guarantees. Good work by the government and the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-18-ps-144.u4	Thank you. - Now there is far too much fuss in this Chamber. How many people want to listen to these things?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-18-ps-144.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, it made me feel good that so many people want to listen when I have something important to say.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-18-ps-144.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-18-ps-144.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-18-ps-144.u8	Mr President! When I myself have gone through all of these from an open company to a limited liability company in my own company, I must say that this is a very good proposal that the form of a limited liability company could be available to everyone from the outset on this zero capital principle. Yes, today, more of the company’s assets are in the company’s employees, i.e. knowledge rather than capital. This is precisely what we are promoting, for example, the creation of start-ups and, for example, the growth of 4H entrepreneurship. When I myself am the chairman of the board of the 4H Association, I have seen the eager effort being made there, and the form of limited liability company would have been very useful in many cases, hundreds, right from the start. I am in favour of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-18-ps-144.u9	Madam President! Whenever standards are streamlined and bureaucracy is dismantled, as has been done a great deal during this parliamentary term, it must be encouraged and said that this is a good thing. Reducing the threshold for entrepreneurship by different means is very important. This is a good presentation in that sense. However, I would also like to say that, from the point of view of the shadow economy, it has also been pointed out that there may be a small risk here, a risk that may increase, and this should be borne in mind and followed up on how all this is going to work. But, as I said, from the point of view of the threshold for entrepreneurship and from the point of view of cutting red tape, this proposal is a good one.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-18-ps-144.u10	Madam President! This is an excellent government proposal and a good, unanimous opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on this issue. In the debate we also had the debureaucratisation. This has to do with the government's programme of red tape. It is an excellent thing that the company no longer needs a share capital to start its business, and perhaps if we want to tackle the black economy — this theme was discussed — those risks are lower in this respect. If, even at the moment, this EUR 2500 is paid in connection with the establishment of a limited company, it can immediately be withdrawn from the company and thus set up. So maybe this will also clarify how to start a company. Excellent thing: I was at Tampere Standard School in high school, where entrepreneurship is also promoted, young businesses are made there and we go through this business field. They have their own interest in doing them, and I see that these different types of young businesses should be stimulated, as mentioned here too, by the 4H entrepreneurship. Rural areas are likely to have even more of this limited company-based entrepreneurship than in the past. One of the concerns we had in this committee debate was that when limited liability companies were set up, the way in which they could then be dismantled would be easier. This has not yet been discussed and discussed. Very often, through law firms and others, this dismantling of the company is unduly costly, and it is hoped that this will be taken into account in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-18-ps-144.u11	Mr President! There is a presentation here which well describes the work that has been done on this During Sipilä's reign, it is precisely to promote the activities of small entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs — to promote people's self-employment and other employment — and how we can develop governance on its behalf. It is very good that this old state is now being restored, so to speak, to the fact that this retail capital requirement did not exist in the past. This is now being removed and specifically made easier at the start-up stage by the fact that a limited company is also possible, an equal form of enterprise, and also by the fact that personal responsibility for the entrepreneur is then excluded in this respect. It is therefore very good that this will facilitate the creation of micro-enterprises and, at the same time, facilitate digital notification and registration automation. In general, the Government’s approach to facilitating all reporting by entrepreneurs to public authorities aims to ensure that the same information needs to be communicated only once to the public authority. This is a very welcome direction, and it has become a lot of feedback for years. All in all, our legislation has now been gutted through so that it is easier to make this bureaucracy easier for entrepreneurs to focus on their own activities and to serve their customers and to provide the services they are expected to provide. I myself have run this work in my own, in the centre, in the parliamentary group, and I am glad that this proposal is moving forward as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-18-ps-144.u12	Madam President! About one in two entrepreneurs will have to quit within five years, and one in two will be in a worse financial situation after five years than when they first started. In fact, the risk of trying is quite significant. A large part of the company has so far acted as traders, avoiding the administrative burden of the limited company, and at the time when the company is wound up, the holder of the business name will also be permanently responsible for the situation which may be difficult financially. There are a lot of advantages here when the claim for share capital disappears, but yes, there is also, I would say, opportunities that mean that when companies cannot lose their share capital, they can also be left unaccounted for and may go bankrupt. This is something that should be followed up and dealt with in sufficient time if there are these various side effects which are not desirable.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-18-ps-144.u13	Madam President! Removing the company’s minimum capital means a lot to individual people who have an idea to develop and perhaps the company’s income formation is only years away. But when this person needs the Y-ID and the name of that company to do business through ely-centre and Business Finland, for example, then when this small claim comes out of the capital, we will certainly find people who, through it, are looking for a livelihood in the future. It is a great thing, therefore, that this sort of thing, I would say, for some, a large sum, but nevertheless a bureaucratic problem, should be removed. This is the good work that the government has done to ensure that entrepreneurship is seen as a genuine, worthwhile means of generating income in areas where it may be thought that innovation is not easy to take forward. This brings us ordinary people one step closer to entrepreneurship, and it is really great that this is finally happening.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-18-ps-144.u14	Madam President! This government has done a very strong and convincing job in the field of employment and, of course, it shows that a large number of more than 120 000 people have been employed and, as a result, the state finances, tax revenues have improved, and this affects the financing of all our services. Entrepreneurship is an important aspect of employment, and when the government considered these different options for boosting employment, this abolition of the minimum capital of limited liability companies, i.e. the abolition of the minimum capital requirement of EUR 2500 and thereby the creation of new businesses and, of course, employment, also emerged in the discussions. With regard to this debate, which has taken place on this issue, I would like to raise one point. From the start-up of young people’s businesses in particular, many young people say that the share capital requirement, EUR 2500, is a great deal in a situation when you are going to try and have an idea and you are eager to go and try your own wings. This is a very important signal, particularly for young people, that the requirement for share capital will be abolished, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-18-ps-144.u15	Mr President! This government proposal is quite welcome, i.e. the minimum capital requirement of EUR 2500 would be abolished. When, about 20 years ago, I entered politics as the daughter of the assisting family, I remember that this minimum requirement had been about $15,000. Since then, it had been converted into EUR 8000 and has sailed there for the last 25 years between EUR 10000 and EUR 2500, and this would now be completely removed. Entrepreneurship carries Finland, and as a small nation we live especially in exports. Today, many crazy innovations may be significant export products quite quickly in the future, whether it is the gaming industry or wireless technology. Entrepreneurship is no longer so capital intensive, but will become increasingly knowledge-intensive in the future. On the other hand, of course, there are many people in the world with knowledge, that is to say it is capital intensive in itself, but what I mean is that it no longer needs so much investment in industry and related to it, and that is why this proposal really needs to be supported. Of course, there has been a debate as to whether the company can then be founded on the mere fact that there is no EUR 2500. This can indeed be done, and this EUR 2500, which has been a minimum capital requirement, has not been the case, however, that a limited company should always have EUR 2500 in the account, but it has now been the case that it must have been at the start-up stage, but since then it may have been used for something else. So the limited liability company has not always had the minimum amount of EUR 2500 but has only been a claim at the time of the establishment of the company. This is therefore a very welcome proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-18-ps-144.u16	Honorable Speaker! Indeed, as several fellow Members have testified, this abolition of the minimum capital of a limited company is a good proposal, and I myself have been pushing for this in my previous term of government. In other words, the aim is to have more limited companies, small-scale companies and such new start-up small companies born. I would like to see a lot of researchers and students go from that university level to commercialise their own ideas, to make some spin-offs, for example. When Mr Lehti said about these undesirable side effects, the protection of creditors of limited liability companies must be looked at soon, and hopefully next season this will also be the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-18-ps-144.u17	Madam President! This is a good thing, but like the representative above. Talvitie described the reality of the situation, but we should not exaggerate the impact of this on how much this new entrepreneurship will achieve. But it is welcome to facilitate all forms of entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship. We need new types of actors, we need different small businesses, which often leave even when a young person is even in primary school or high school, in vocational school studying it in his or her own profession, and can thus gain its first positive experience of work, but also of entrepreneurship. There was another good point in Mrs Talvitie's speech: that these companies are, above all in the future, those where the most important capital is the knowledge and the skill that this person has, whether young or older. There are many different skills in this country and it is good to make them available. Mr President! Personally, I think it is important that in the future we have more flexible, easy ways of working, offering work and also buying work or receiving work, and these have been increased and facilitated by, for example, pay.fi and such practices. I believe that this reform of our tax system, which will move on to more real-time taxation, will also bring good results in this area. Finland needs more entrepreneurs, more entrepreneurship, more work and more work, and this is one good measure for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-18-ps-144.u18	Mr President! I too agree with the supporters of this proposal. What is particularly good here is the lowering of the threshold for business start-ups. Having a good idea, it is now easy to set up a limited liability company in the future when the required share capital requirement disappears. In many cases, we entrepreneurial-minded people – which I hope there will be more and more in this country, entrepreneurial education is getting stronger and stronger in our school as well – are piling up ideas, and sometimes it is good to test them, even if part-time by setting up a company that does not necessarily provide that livelihood immediately, and now this threshold really makes it easier. It is easier for young people to set up a limited liability company and act immediately in the form of a limited liability company, so that changes, for example from the name of the company to the limited liability company, will become unnecessary and will be able to test their wings on a smaller threshold.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-18-ps-144.u19	Madam Speaker! Excellent speeches have been made here in connection with this good proposal. For example, we have already raised the issue of reducing the entrepreneurship threshold for young people through this, as well as the ideas emerging from the university world and their further processing, but I also bring the breadth to this debate that this is also an important issue for rural areas. Many primary producers, who have the idea of processing something from milk, grain, many other primary products, cannot go through their farm business because certain forms of support, such as through the Ely Centre and Business Finland, are not directly possible through their farm business. And now that we know of the tight financial situation in agriculture, even this EUR 2500 for the creation of a limited company is a really big money for many innovative farm entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-18-ps-144.u20	Mr President! On this side of the Chamber, too, I would like to say that this proposal on the subject is a good one, and when we in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy heard a lot of experts and considered this solution, we all agreed that it was worth defending this proposal for a number of reasons which have already been mentioned here. It is not always just a question of material capital requirements, but, as has been shown here, it is often the case that the largest capital is, however, the ownership and share of human capital in start-up companies. In this respect, it is of course important that, in the future, the start of SMEs or self-employment or self-employment be supported in many other ways, and one such major challenge will be how we will also make SMEs stick to international value chains and internationalisation. It also requires a wide range of support and partnership with larger companies. With this I would just like to say that this is an important step towards its establishment, but other measures are also needed. The representative, Pirttilahti, drew attention to the fact that the problems related to the closure of the company were perhaps not or could not be sufficiently assessed and should be returned to it in the future. Good presentation on Finnish entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-18-ps-144.u21	Mr President! The proposal to abolish the minimum capital requirement for a private limited liability company is very much to be welcomed, as has already been pointed out in many speeches. I would like to emphasise that again, as Mr Lehti pointed out, the effects of the law would be monitored so that the undesirable effects would not arise. Indeed, there are examples on the financial crime investigation that make use of all possible loopholes in the law, you might say. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-18-ps-144.u22	Mr President! This is a good presentation, and it is important that the threshold for trying is lowered. I feel that Finland has never been such an entrepreneur-friendly country, and Parliament has supported this proposal on its side too, and of course it is due to two factors: on the one hand, the change in working life, in which many people are, as it were, going to be subcontractors — sole entrepreneur, subcontractor, small entrepreneur, light entrepreneur, whatever these terms are — and on the other hand, this innovation activity, which has been referred to here, is that even students and schoolchildren, when developing ideas and ideas for the market, can become entrepreneurs at a very early stage. Perhaps what I would have expressed concern about here is how our social security system adapts to this, when you are sometimes an entrepreneur, sometimes an employed person, sometimes a student, sometimes unemployed. Everyone knows the rigidity involved in such situations, then, in obtaining and applying for social benefits and in applying for social benefits. We tend to think in silos that, since you are an entrepreneur, you are always an entrepreneur and then close off from you the benefits that usually come from paid work on this social side. In a society of the future, we need to build much more flexible systems, specifically on the social side.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-18-ps-144.u23	Madam President! First of all, I would like to say that this half-hour of Friday has again shown that this is almost the best debate we have in this House: I will put the issues first, a good debate. I want to thank everyone for that. I would also like to thank the government for a good presentation. The fact that all know-how and all ideas must be made available and the threshold for company-based activities must also be lowered has been highlighted here by many representatives. But this also raises another question raised by Mrs Vähämäki. Thus, share capital is like a rental guarantee, and it raises the question of the protection of the creditor. This is something that has not yet been properly covered in this context, and I have not heard a great deal of discussion about it. This question of protection for creditors, such as a representative Vähämäki pointed out that it is probably something that will come up during the negotiations on the next government programme and during the next parliamentary term. We need to be able to solve that, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-18-ps-144.u24	Madam Speaker! I was very happy to say hello to this performance. It is good that efforts are constantly being made to make it easier to start and try. Earlier in this reign, the Finns of Finland also realised an important piece of norm dismantling. It was the conversion of the company's VAT base into cash from the previous invoice, receipt basis. These are very good proposals. It can be seen here that this is more part of the process of facilitating the business environment in which, in a way, I would say, bureaucracy and standards are being dismantled. But then, on the other side, we should also remember money, that is to say the financial improvement of business opportunities, and that is what we have now proposed in our last alternative budget to increase the VAT ceiling. There are probably other proposals that would actually make it easier to start or continue to do business even more financially. But this proposal seems all right, and I hope that in committee the parties will achieve this together.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-18-ps-144.u25	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. We've got two minutes. Let's take what we can.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-18-ps-144.u26	Madam President! This is a very welcome reform — it can well be called ‘LexTalvitie’. This proposal, introduced by Minister of Justice Häkkänen to Parliament, therefore seeks to facilitate the decision-making of housing companies on the demolition and construction of buildings. The key change is therefore that the general meeting of the housing company can then decide, by four-fifths qualified majority, on the dissolution and construction of the building, when, according to the law in force until now, the housing company has to decide unanimously on the project. In the past, the unanimity requirement has been waived, for example, in lifts and this type of repairs, and also in post-construction measures to improve accessibility. It is a very welcome reform that this too is now being brought into this dismantling process. This is also a good way to protect and safeguard the position of shareholders, i.e. to ensure that these people who have this type of house, which is no longer worth repairing or which will be replaced by more housing, will also receive a new dwelling in the future. We have already changed this majority thinking in Finnish legislation in 2011. At that time, the basic improvements, balcony glasses, archaics and these became majority decisions, but the majority of these decisions still take place by the so-called two-thirds majority. I would like to raise one point, and it is a matter of corporate consideration. So we have houses with apartments, and then downstairs we have stone-foot shops. In the past, a higher corporate consideration has been set for hardfoot stores, and now that there have been difficulties in the turmoil of mail and supermarkets, some of the housing companies have wanted to make it easier for them to do so and to remove this increased corporate consideration. Now the problem is that in these decisions the amendment of the articles of association must be made not only by a qualified majority but also by the consent of the shareholders, and this now causes the problem that even one resident has been able to prevent the company's consideration for the hard-core trade from being moderated and reduced. The solution then is that the whole stone-foot shop has left the building downstairs, it is empty and the end result is that the housing company does not receive any income from it. It would then be worth seriously considering ways of streamlining this type of decision-making in line with this ‘LexTalvitie’,which will lead to a four-fifth majority decision-making process.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-18-ps-144.u27	Mr President! Politics, like life, is a team game, and, of course, compromises are made. In this context, I would like to say thank you. Thank you to all those who have contributed to this, to those 105 colleagues, especially all those from Oulu, and then to all those who have prepared for it, and to all those who have otherwise supported it. In other respects, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, I have been given the opportunity to contribute to this. The committee adopted a unanimous report and a good debate took place at first reading on Tuesday. Thank you and look to the future, and hopefully this legislative change will enable accessible, good, functional solutions for people and new homes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-18-ps-144.u28	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Talvitie for an extremely good bill, which I myself signed, and the Ministry of Justice for very good preparation and careful and skilful preparation. In our hearings, this received a great deal of praise, and this proposal specifically facilitates the dismantling and redevelopment of old buildings along good transport links with growth centres. During the debate, we also drew attention to the fact that we are facing similar challenges, for example with regard to real estate companies, and it would then be good to pay attention to them in the future, so that we can also reform urban centres or, for example, old shopping centres in line with the needs of growing cities.
