ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report TrVM 6/2018 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u2	Mr President! The current integration report continues the tradition of the Audit Committee, which began in 2007, to target a few key issues during the parliamentary term in a separate study and research. Integration entered the committee's agenda in the autumn of 2005 at the beginning of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u10	Thank you. — Then I will give the floor to Minister Lindström first, and then we will go to the debate. — 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u11	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the committee and to the committee as a whole for this report. I was also there as an expert, and there are many things that I agree with and agree with in this report, in fact there is little I disagree with. Then the processes of putting these things forward in practice are, of course, their own business, but speeding up the processes and all this is the kind of work that we have started since the events of 15 C.E. I have said many times that the Ministry of Employment and the Economy had a very low level of integration and the number of people focusing on integration before 15. It was one small department, a few people, and everything changed in 15. There we have resourced so many more doing hands and, above all, redesigned thinking, practices. There's a lot of unfinished business. For example, home law is here in Parliament, it is part of a larger entity. So, in a way, some of these issues, which the committee is raising in this report, are in the pipeline, so to speak, but the message is certainly not going to go to waste. I am sure that there will be something to be said about precisely the wishes and the proposals that the committee rightly draws attention to. This talk of compulsoryity. For four years now, I have been trying to emphasise that whatever we do in terms of integration and employment management should not be like a situation where there will be a confrontation with integration policy and then with this normal labour market policy, but that these tools will be flexible on both sides and that there will be universal acceptance that integration measures will be taken forward. Of course, we all want integration to be successful. It is said that integration is a complete failure, of course, but it must be acknowledged if there is a failure: a hand up and then correct what is wrong. And what has been problematic is that for certain ethnic groups, statistics and facts show that employment is not what it should be. Then, for example, we come into the position of women, and women must be involved in this integration work much more strongly than has been the case so far, because I personally believe that, when they are involved in this, we will begin to see quite different figures in employment statistics. Working life has been our starting point from the beginning. We have kept it on the agenda here, and it has been very central to how we think about integration. It is not just employment, but employment is an absolutely central part — not the only but the only one — of people becoming part of this society. We have tried to shorten these paths, including in language studies: not by sitting in a classroom, but by learning practical language in interaction with other people, was in training or working life, because it is the best way to integrate in my opinion. This observation, which is also the case here, that this system is considered to be complex, is quite true. This needs to be clarified, we need to think about who then has the responsibility for this. It is now the case that the TE administration and municipalities deal with this. We need to think about this division. The chairman of the committee presented a model similar to that in Sweden and Denmark. These are probably issues that need to be considered, so what is the model that works in Finland? The role of voluntary work, the role of the third sector, is important, there are already very good integration efforts. As long as this division of duties is clarified, who is doing and what is doing. There are certain things that the authorities do, and certain things where volunteering and the third sector would have a much greater role to play, as long as we look at what it might be. Then these systems and responsibilities must be clarified so that everyone knows what they are doing. I agree that as soon as possible at the beginning of the next parliamentary term these measures will be mobilised. We now have good intentions, because the Ministry of Employment and the Economy — perhaps despite all the criticisms — has already taken a number of measures which I believe are in the right direction. I will end by saying that integration is primarily a responsibility of integration. This is two-way, and I believe that this obligation is also linked to it. We cannot expect governments and municipalities to do things. It will never be possible if you integrate yourself or if you have a cultural reason to prevent him from participating in that process. When these can be resolved, we will be much longer on this important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u12	Thank you, and then we'll go to the debat for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u13	Mr President! I would ask for the floor later, as long as I hear the views of the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u15	Mr President! It is great that a common view has been found on this issue in how integration should be developed, and as a rule it is also easy to agree with the presentations of what is in the Audit Committee. However, there is one thing I would like to reflect on. It is a good idea to assume that integration will take place during the first year. Of course I'm in favour of that. And I am also in favour of saying here that immigrant women are a special group. But then, when these two things are combined, a question mark comes after them. In other words, often the background may be that there is family leave, maternity leave or something else, when the time of the year and integration do not fit together. We should find models that identify the needs of the family, but at the same time are strict on the need to participate in integration measures and they should take place as quickly as possible. That is why I would like us to think about the instruments that would support the integration process of those on family leave, for example through the reform of family leave or through the transfer system.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u16	Vice-President of the Audit Committee, represented by Ala-Nissila.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u17	Madam President! It has been shown that this was an important subject for research and an important report for the committee to do this once this has been done. I would also really like to draw attention to the fact that we are getting as close to the integrationist as possible, in which case the role of municipalities and the third sector must be strengthened, and these responsibilities are important, and ultimately the integrationist himself must also have a strong duty. It has also been noted that integration has been very successful in folk high schools, for example, and it is not necessarily necessary to be a large city when integration is achieved, but community can work better elsewhere. President! Of course, the number of immigrants also matters. It must be said quite frankly that we had so much to do here that the government had something to do with it. That is why immigration must be controlled so that integration can be controlled.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u18	Madam President! I would also like to thank the entire committee for this excellent report and for its constructive cooperation. After all, the work was challenging, but I think it was very successful. It is a fact that integration and integration have not been successful in Finland. This is reflected, among other things, in the low level of employment among certain groups of immigrants, in the low level of language skills, and also in criminal statistics. The obligation to integrate must be increased, the responsibility of immigrants for their own integration must be increased. But, above all, I would like to draw attention to two points. In the past, our integration system has been very fragmented. It's been very bureaucratic. I hope that this will change in the future. In addition, integration
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u19	Mr President! I too, as a member of the Committee on Audit, must say that it was quite startling to see how weak our integration efforts are. I would have liked you, Minister, to be praised here, but it comes to mind if these shortcomings were partly due to the enormous amount of work you had as Minister of Labour and Minister of Justice at the time of the early elections, that this integration activity was only slightly weaker than the pressure brought on by immigrants. But the very specific areas of blindness are indeed in the case of immigrant women. After all, employment is an important indicator, and two out of five women with an immigrant background are indeed outside the labour market. Of course, cultural factors affect this, different nationalities have different readings here, but our integration systems do not find, for example, the spouses of those who have come with work-based immigration at home and then the women who have come as a result of family reunification.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u20	Madam President! I would say yes that it is very good and welcome that a unanimous report on this subject has been made in the Committee on Audit. The committee has done an excellent job in this regard. I myself have only been an alternate and I have not been present so much, but what I have looked at in this result must be said that the very legitimate things are now on the table here unanimously. And the fact that this is unanimous also provides a very good basis for this extensive reform work in the coming period on the basis of these principles, which the committee has now raised. Some of the things that have been raised here, for example with regard to this particular obligation, are very startling: there is no monitoring, there is no statistics. I think it is self-evident that these things should be better in the future. It is extremely important that we talk about speed, that the processes are fast and then quickly get to work there. And all in all, for example, this question of language skills and other things that rise here,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u21	Let's all stay within a minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u22	Mr President! I, too, would like to thank the committee for this unanimous, albeit critical, report, and I would like to thank Mr Heinäluoma very much for his careful long work on this matter, and the members of the committee have been very comfortable and fully able to express their views on this. When I said that this is a critical report, yes, it is compared to the current situation. This obligation has already been introduced in a number of speeches, and this is the case, but it is now also an obligation for immigrants to participate in integration training and integration, but it has not really been achieved. It has not been followed up, and it has been able to cut integration money by up to 20% as a sanction if you do not participate, but has not been used either. Of course, it is worrying that there are no statistics on how passive this participation has been throughout the country, and this information is
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u23	Madam President! It is, of course, valuable that the committee has brought about a unanimous report, and of course the President-in-Office has led this committee's work with great merit. I would like to raise a few points: Firstly, it is extremely important that a unanimous view was found on speeding up integration. It has been a major challenge today when, in an expert consultation, we heard that it could take between 5 and 10 years and nothing really happens. This is now clearly the time line of this year, which is really good, and it will make this integration more effective. The second big thing is that, as far as reception centres are concerned, we saw that better guidance and control of activities must be achieved, that language training is actually being given there, but also that education is being given on the way society operates, the rules and the knowledge of values, which is extremely important in these challenging situations, which has been the case in recent times.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u24	Mr President! Accelerating integration and improving functioning is certainly the common goal of this whole hall. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that social and individual reciprocity must always be at the heart of integration measures. Where mandatory issues are required, resources should also be made available for measures that enable the fulfilment of the obligations, especially in order to speed up the integration period. Nor can I stress enough that life is always a whole and, as important as the labour aspect is, it is a narrow starting point. For example, the right to one’s own family is absolutely central to integration. I also hope that the debate does not talk over people and does not lump all people under one heading, because every human being is always an individual.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u25	Mr President! The committee's report is unanimous, but it should be noted that not all groups are represented in the Audit Committee and have therefore been involved in the drafting of this report. There are good elements in the report, but there are also elements to be developed. This acceleration of the integration process into the year can be problematic if it does not take into account individual needs. It is good that efforts are being made to speed up and intensify the integration process, but a year cannot be an unambiguous time limit, because there can be different family situations and life situations where the need for more tendon is needed. Women are an important focus, because it is the low employment rate of women that is driving down the overall employment rate of immigrants. So thank you for raising this point. But, Mr President, all measures must take account of the fact that immigrants are very different, different backgrounds and different capacities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u26	Mr President! Nor is the RKP's parliamentary group represented in the Audit Committee, but we are pleased that other parliamentary groups are interested in integration, which is very important to us all, because the essence of it actually means being involved and feeling involved in society. Language skills are one indicator, and employment is certainly one, but they are not the only ones, and it is not always necessary to have these very pieces. There may be other ways of belonging to a society that makes you feel part of it and participates in doing it. Maybe it's important to remember. The role of women and, above all, the lower employment rates of women have been well highlighted. The OECD study pointed out that home care support is one such trap, as it is for all women today in terms of wage development and employment. In Helsinki, special emphasis has been placed on schools with more children with a mother tongue other than Finnish or Swedish,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u27	Mr President! I have some sympathy for the minister sitting down, even because this is a challenging subject. During the last term of my government, I had the opportunity to answer some of these questions. The value of this report is that it is unanimous. The value of this report is that nobody is accused of this. The value of this report is that it provides a proper basis for discussion on immigration and integration policy rather than on emotion. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the starting point for immigration is very different. Family reasons are the biggest, then work-based, studying and humanitarian reasons. I would also like to say that Finland's population will only increase as a result of immigration from now on. So we have a need for work-related immigration, but the rules of the game must be fair, respectable and equal. Education, language skills and work are the best integration and underlying integration, and the next government programme should build on that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u28	Madam President! On May 29, 15, the Sipilä government was appointed, and about three months later this avalanche of immigration began. For that summer the government had been in the landscape office, and Minister Lindström had a double briefcase, and a period of deep economic distress was experienced. It is quite understandable, then, that even then, in the autumn of 15, there was not very great capacity (a) to accept such an avalanche and (b) to take integration measures with the resources and experience which had mainly come through quota refugees in previous years. So the system was completely unprepared for this situation. Three years have passed since then, and it is therefore a little regrettable that this three-year period has not brought the integration system beyond what this good report says and contains. It is now time to implement these. I would like to raise the issue of the role of municipalities — but I do not think there is time. There is still a great deal of responsibility on the part of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u29	Madam President! First of all, we should thank the Audit Committee and its chairman for their good work. It is easy to agree with the objectives of work, language training, women's participation and women's access to employment. These are very important in this report. I would like to raise two points which may be worth paying attention to. One is that when we talk about work and the necessity and ambition of work, we have some experience among immigrants that they do not even get a job interview based on their name or colour. In general, in such a context, it can then be said that even discriminatory or racist practices can be found. We've got to get rid of these. No one should be discriminated against in working life because of their skin colour, name or origin. The second issue is immigration entrepreneurship. We already have many immigrants with small and medium-sized enterprises. They could guide and be tutoring new arrivals in this immigrant entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u30	Mr President! I would also like to thank the Audit Committee for this report. Success in integration is absolutely essential both for society as a whole and, above all, for those who come here. This is not an easy sport either. I know that many other countries are also wondering how this should be solved. Let me just make two brief points. For shortening that time. There may be situations that that year is too short, but it will be a long way to go in a year to find out whether a person is integrating, or if not, what problems there are. In other words, it is extremely important to have at the latest the observation that we are on the right path. Then the second point is this question of language skills. In my opinion, it is an idea to link a permanent residence to this requirement for language skills, because if a person wants to study and learn Finnish or Swedish, it shows that he really wants to integrate into Finland and move on with his or her life here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u31	Madam President! I would like to thank the committee for this very good report and also for putting women of immigrant origin at the forefront of the rush to integration measures. We must remember that immigrant mothers play an important role in raising the next generation and through them their children's integration into our society will either succeed or fail. That is why this priority is excellent. There has been a suspicion here that this year's integration period would precisely turn against immigrant women. In my opinion, not if we think that maternity is not an obstacle to integration, but that we should organise integration measures, such as language courses in such a way that children can be included. I myself have seen in Israel how Ethiopian women have been trained in the language course in such a way that babies have been in the next room and they may have been breast-feeding at times, if necessary. We have a lot in organizations,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u32	Then Mr Adlercreutz. — Try to be within a minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u33	Yes. — Ärade talman! There are many good intentions in this report, but I would like to raise the same issue raised by Mr Sarkkinen, that immigrants are very different, they have different needs. If we make too tight a frame, it does not necessarily contribute to integration. We have immigrants who do well in English, who are in a high position in companies, in business. For them, English is a working language; it is not worth obliging them to learn anything else. It will not improve their situation or our economic situation. Representative Aalto highlighted the importance of the family. Getting a family here is also an essential part of integration. When the conditions for integration have been studied, the general atmosphere of society has also been raised. If you feel welcome if you do not experience discrimination if you do not experience racism, then the conditions for integration will be considerably improved. I'm sure that's where we all have a little room for improvement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u34	Mr President! I heard a colleague say that integration is not working, and I would now like to make it clear that we have a lot of members of this society who have sometimes moved here and are well integrated, but it is true that integration services do not work as well as we want, and that is why this topic of debate is important. In its own report, the committee stresses, among other things, the importance of language training and now wants to raise standards in the form of language tests, but we also need to discuss the quality of our language training. There have now been many examples in public how — in these integration courses when doing business — it too often leads to the fact that when competitions place emphasis on price, the quality of teaching suffers most of all, as well as the accessibility of teaching. Similarly, with regard to the shortening of the integration period, I do not quite understand how to come to the conclusion that, if integration is not working well enough at present, the solution is to shorten integration rather than improve it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u35	Mr President! I am from the province of South Ostrobothnia and from the city of Seinäjoki, where there has not been much problem with integration. Of course, we now have quota refugees, only in Seinäjoki in the whole of southern Ostrobothnia. Through the rush of asylum seekers in 2015, we also came to Kauhava with a great deal of asylum — more than 300 asylum seekers are currently in existence — and now in this area the municipalities have had to consider how these integration measures should be taken. It is quite true that this is too complicated and too fragmented to have a single chain to integrate these people. In this report, I particularly welcome the fact that this is unanimous and that it will also become responsibilities. If you have a parental quarter and your parents have been in Southern Finland for eight years and you have to have an interpreter there, then of course you have to think about whether integration and language education have done the right thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u36	Let us also take Mr Paatero, although Mrs Wallin had also asked to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u37	Thank you, Madam President. This very good report contains this point, according to which a comprehensive reform of the integration law is necessary, and I fully sign it when, on this part of the Administrative Committee, I look at these and all the other, foreign laws and so on, comes as small spots, after which no one really knows about the whole — so that this does not happen on this side. As far as municipalities are concerned, I fully agree that responsibility for municipalities and cooperation there with organisations is of paramount importance. Many times we have drawn attention to the fact that municipal compensation should be at another level and that we have very different municipalities at the moment. In Helsinki and Vantaa, it is stated that there is no longer any need for project-based projects, but there has already been a move to a completely normal activity in the provision of services for decades, but in some smaller localities, where we are in situations for the first time, education and learning are also needed for this integration. At the moment, the municipalities have been very positive. More and more places of residence, which I think is a great thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u38	Mr President! It is interesting to hear the comments of this so - called Premises Hall on this integration. In this debate we are talking about immigrants as external objects that do not belong to the category "we" and which must be activated. That is certainly not the case. Immigrants belong to this society, work equally in the same society with us hand in hand. I'd turn a blind eye to the government. When images are built here, it is said that the integrationist has a duty, a cultural reason, to talk about ethnic groups, and I would turn my attention to the government: what has this government done? You cut off the subjective day care right, you took away people's right to it. Then you made family reunification almost impossible. Moreover, there has also been no reform of the family leave system. It's easy to come here and yell, but what has the government done to improve it? These three projects alone complicate the position of so many people in this society. [President : Time! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u39	Mr President! With reference to that previous speech, fortunately, in this debate no one in Finland has shouted anything at all, but on the contrary. It can be said that there is currently a very decisive role for Parliament and the Audit Committee to clarify this whole. Thank you so much for this. I wondered at the last Question Time when I would have liked to have raised this issue of integration, but then there was a somewhat different sound in this Chamber. Now we're on the right track. When I read the full text of this committee's opinion, it is quite exceptional: 11 points are required. This is a good programme of measures. The situation that is the role of the municipalities was explained by the chairman of the committee, and that is something that is more open here in the text. In other words, the role of organisations is also very important. Municipalities alone or a single municipality cannot respond to this problem. For example, the Siilinjärvi Reception Centre in the Old Hospital of Story is maintained by Setlementi Puijola and works quite well in its entirety.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u40	Mr President! Work-related immigrants have no need for any integration services and others. They are very well adapted to society. This whole integration disaster would not be necessary if this social security-based immigration were not taking place. This whole integration task has failed because it is too geared towards changing the population and society. All this kind of positive discrimination, all privileges and all special services should rather strive to stop and move to immigration for work-related immigration. That's right. The Minister said very well that the responsibility of the individual should be emphasised here. The responsibility for adjusting must be placed on the person who comes. It is an individual’s own choice of how to adapt to the society to which he moves. However, it is naive of us here to think that all those who come from Muslim countries are coming here to build a society that is in line with Finnish values — not coming — and that needs to be clarified, because those who are not coming,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u41	Representative Sarkomaa, then representative Heinäluoma and then minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u42	Madam President! The Audit Committee has done a valuable job. It is great that integration measures have now been made clear, and it is good that the responsibility of the integrationist is being emphasised, but it is also important to see what we can do in this society, especially when we talk about children with an immigrant background. Of course, it is not a united group, but a serious observation is whether we look at the Pisa results or, for example, how many children with an immigrant background go to high school: it is about 5%, compared with 50% of the population. That is why it is very important that we look at our education system, but also at how we get mothers involved, how mothers from immigrant backgrounds are involved in this society, so that they can then support their children, as well as fathers, in the way of learning. In that sense, the emphasis on mothers and coming with them is everything a and o, and it is important to learn from Helsinki, where integration training is provided for mothers on maternity leave, with a babysitter, in Finnish as well as in the case of Arab mothers, in Arabic and
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u43	Mr President, when this debate is a little unusual, is the decision taken at the initiative of Parliament allowed the President to spend two minutes in this context? [The President : Please!] I would like to thank you very much for the excellent contributions that have been made, and I also thank you for the thanks that the committee has received in this regard. It is important, as Mr Ihalainen said, that we are able to deal with such a difficult subject in an honest and analytical and less party-political way. Yes, it is an important signal to Finnish society as a whole that these issues can be dealt with and come to a common conclusion. I believe that this will have value, not only in terms of integration, but also in terms of dealing with immigration issues in general. Big changes are needed in the mental attitude of society as a whole, and there is also the question of how the values of Finnish society are passed on to those who come here. In this respect, the current Act on Integration, Article 3, does quite well explain how we have thought about this issue for decades: ‘Integration means the interactive development of immigrants and society, with the aim of providing immigrants with the information and skills needed in society and working life, while giving him access to the language and culture ofthe country’. There is nothing about teaching the values of Finnish society or the rules of the game to those who last come here. This is our old-fashioned, humble approach, and it has its own arguments, but I think it is clear from the work of this committee that we need to tell a little more about what this society is, how it works here and what values it works on. If this is not done, there can be no sustainable integration. On the other hand, if we do not spend the time, the effort and also the money, then we will have the same road as we have seen in France and also in Sweden, in terms of the burning of tyres. It is not such a special country that if we accept that 5% goes to high school, or if we accept that the learning outcomes of immigrants' children are radically weaker than those of the general population, it will lead to a major problem of exclusion when we go on this road a decade further. Now we still have time and opportunity to act and react, and I therefore believe and hope that this report will be taken seriously in the future government. A few brief comments:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u46	Mr President! To begin with, thank you, Mr Heinäluoma, for your excellent speech. My role as Minister is not so much to stare back but to think about the future and to think about what development needs we may have. Now this report by the Committee on Audit provides a very good basis for this. It is not yet a bill, but it is the basis for the debate through which we are going to take these matters forward. It is unfortunate, Mr Yanar, that you feel that we here are, as it were, talking about you as an outsider. I feel that you are exactly the same Finnish as I am and that you are integrated into this system, and so are many others. But the statistics only in fact show that there is something to be developed here. This isn't an accusation. And when this committee report is unanimous, the name of your representative is also there, so that I was a little surprised at this speech. You criticised the actions of the government and asked what we have done. We have renewed the working life-oriented approach of KOTO training — exactly what the committee requires — and have created paths for those who work quickly. We are moving faster from the KOTO education to vocational training, and within it you can now continue those language studies. The SIB model, i.e. this social impact investment model, has been developed in particular in the labour niche sectors. More active use of all TE services, including for immigrants: there is pay support, work trial, career coaching. All of these can then be mixed during integration time with other services. And a centre of excellence for integration, where there are therefore different actors in the same multi-professional package: this works. The idea is to extend this, which works in Helsinki, to the rest of the country. That we have taken a number of measures, but, as I said, some of these things are still in the process and we do not yet know how effective they are. We haven't stood up in a row since those 2015 events. We must remember that people must not be integrated into any system, but into this society. For example, we are not simply offering language training, but a strong, working life-oriented education. Are we employed and learning the language by simply sitting in the classroom? In our opinion, the paths must quickly lead outside the classroom. That's thinking like this. This development is not done. We commissioned a report from the OECD on what we have done right. It was the year 15 that ended that examination, and it was critical. The OECD also told us its own findings, what has been done since then, and said that we are on the right track. In my opinion, this debate essentially shows that we share this same view that there is a balance between obligation and support, which means that we are much longer in society. We must perhaps succeed in integration as the first country in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u47	Let's go to the debat for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u48	Mr President! The audit committee has excellent, unanimous and forward-looking guidelines. Maybe a couple of reflections. Firstly, this would mean that the integration period would be one year in the future. There was a little clarity on this point, but I admit that I myself did not think about whether the current three years were really to be reduced to one year or whether it was to be seen after the year how far we have come and how we are going to proceed. Another reflection from the perspective of integration: Of course, language skills and work are extremely important and important. Perhaps even in the direction of the minister, I would be left with the question mark to consider whether we should also consider and consider whether we should use different means to support Finnish working life in that it also employs workers with inadequate language skills. Perhaps this is a question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u49	Madam President! There are excellent things in this report, and the Heinäluoto has made good speeches here, as have many others. We need to speed up, we need to increase the obligation and we need to increase the focus on working life — these are the three points. Very good. Minister Lindström said that there should also be responsibility, and that is how it is. I would like to draw attention to this statistical information. It is a little flawed, it must indeed be improved, the results of language training must be improved. Then the position of women: it cannot really be that women stay at home to such an extent that this is now happening in the light of current knowledge. We need to get them more closely into society. Very briefly, the third sector will also be included here. I pay attention to sports and exercise. It's one of the best ways to get people into the crowd that's around. The incentive traps are said on page 10. You have to pay attention to them. If an immigrant finds that there is a better standard of living in aid alone than in his own country in any way, then the message
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u50	Mr President! I should like to add my thanks to the work of the Committee on Audit and, in particular, to the fact that there has been a unanimous, joint report on this difficult matter and that there is also agreement on the 11 measures that the committee is proposing. I would like to raise two points here: firstly, it is important to speed up the processing of residence permit applications; and secondly, it is important that integration starts immediately; the time is sufficiently tight; there are services; but there is also this obligation. In addition, it is important that Finnish society's policies, rules and values are involved. And I would like to say, President, that this is in fact very similar to the agreement between the groups last week. Perhaps we can conclude by saying that, now that two such unanimous agreements have been found within a short period of time, is it the case that we are finally growing in society that we are able to discuss this in a factual, factual, dispassionate way and with a view to solving the problems?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u51	Mr President! Mr Lindtman, we are finally at the point where we are discussing the problems of immigration and the problems of integration, and that is what I am very pleased about as a fundamental Finnish. As I listened to your speeches, our values have really drawn closer, and apparently you have come a little closer to us because now there are responsibilities and responsibilities for the people themselves. This language test is very important. If you think about getting free interpretation services for years, then of course your motivation is falling, and it is shockingly expensive. I even wonder that even in official procedures, certain responsibilities could be required if a person has not actually bothered to learn the language, because everyone learns the languages if they want to do so. The internalisation of culture and legislation is extremely important. Even if there is a negative decision on asylum, it must nevertheless become absolutely clear how things are going in this country and how we are here. The Minister spoke of a cultural barrier to language training. I hope you did not mean that a cultural barrier is an opportunity to refuse language training. I want to be more specific about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u52	Madam President! This language training. In Finland, it is really enough to be able to communicate with a supervisor, customers or working communities. Probably enough for a few hundred words. It may be English, you can use hands for it in the future, but after being able to participate and work in the work community, the language automatically improves because the situation of learning the language is much more fruitful than the class community alone. The Finnish authorities are very shrewd about teaching English, but for the recipient, Finland is not the world language. If the idea is not to stay in this country, then the English language is much closer to motivation, and so you should approach. It would be a much more useful tool for the party in an environment where English is spoken or someone speaks English. Here, I think, the other thing is what responsibility lies with the municipality and what responsibility lies with the state. It might be that this municipality’s responsibility would be increased, as the beneficiary is a municipality, when you are employed in your locality and tax revenues are mainly on the municipality’s side.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u53	Madam Speaker! Integration in parliamentary work has belonged to the Section for Employment and Economic Affairs of the Committee on Finance, which I chair. For understandable reasons, during this parliamentary term, integration has played an increasingly important role in our reports, both in the ministerial hearings and in the expert hearings, and has made a significant, strong point here in the debate on the budget report. However, it has not had the strength to change practices as desired. That is why it is an excellent thing that the Committee on Audit has specifically addressed integration, and I would like to thank the chairman of the committee, Mr Heinäluomaa, and the minister for their very constructive, fine speeches. If this is the case here in particular and the debate in the Chamber shows great understanding of the consensus, then of course I hope that this will, in practice, also take this issue forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u54	Madam President! Decision-orientedness is always important, and this report by the Audit Committee on integration measures contains a great deal of this. These proposed measures are quite welcome. It should be borne in mind that they will then also require resources to implement them. A long time ago, a person who was integrated into this country in Finland told me in time — or he hardened his own integration in a few ways — that he felt that integration included education or skills, a language in which he could live, a job and a livelihood, a family and connections with local people and society. Of these, I would now like to raise two points. It's a language that you get along with. I agree with Mr Lehde that it is not necessarily a Finnish language. Language training and all other education and integration services should take into account the fact that people who come here, immigrants, have very individual starting points. There may even be illiteracy, there may be traumatic experiences in the background or other learning difficulties. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u55	Mr President! The importance of language training now arises in many speeches. I would also like to point out that the Committee on Audit also states in its own report that there is quite a lot of room for improvement as regards the quality of language training. One of the proposals that has been made, and I would like to ask whether this has been clarified in the Ministry, is that responsibility for language training should be transferred to the national trainers, so that we can, as it were, overcome such a situation where, as a result of continued competitions, the content of the training suffers as a result of the price overload. I am still worried about the idea of shortening this integration period. Of course, learning the language is also important from the point of view of the future career of the person who is able to move forward with his career to different tasks, and just as Mr Halmemenpää has said here, however, we have visitors who come from a very different background. Some are highly educated, with good learning conditions, others may be completely illiterate in language and reading, and in such a situation the length of the integration period must also be flexible according to the human need for education.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u56	Mr President! A couple of practical tips for the government from that field where I was just working. Preparatory education is provided on the comprehensive school side for immigrants in the form of language and cultural education, and the state provides a central government contribution for one year. For many, however, it will not be enough, and even if it could be prepared for longer, the municipalities will not give it and will therefore quit too early for many. This period of State aid should therefore be extended. Secondly, since this is voluntary, the municipalities in whose schools have these immigrant children must be made compulsory to provide preparatory education in order to give them the right to receive that language education so that they do not fall behind in education. Another issue is the participation of smaller children in early childhood education. Mothers do not bring their children there — it is for cultural reasons, they feel bad mothers — and therefore, for example, Mrs Essayah here gave good examples of how to involve mothers in language training while children
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u57	Mr President! Thank you to the committee for clarifying the effectiveness of integration measures. On the basis of the report, it is quite clear that there have unfortunately been many failures. I myself am particularly concerned about the poor employment of people with a migrant background and the position of women.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u58	Madam Speaker! The report by the Audit Committee is analytical and comprehensive, thanks for that. In addition, the committee has also come up with proposals for positions, and I note that one of them has been well formulated. In it, Parliament requires the Government to increase the compulsory nature of the study activities included in the asylum seeker’s reception services and the knowledge of Finnish society’s policies, rules and values must be required of the asylum seeker. At last week's Question Time, Mr Mykkänen replied to Mr Räsänen's question that the reception allowance for asylum seekers was a consideration, but Mr Mykkänen also said that the criteria for asylum cannot be added to the requirement for a course. How is this possible here in Finland when this is done in Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands and Austria?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u59	Mr Tolppanen, and then a brief reply to the Minister, and then we will go to the list of speakers for a moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u60	Mr President! In my opinion, the most important thing about integration is home and housing. Where immigrants are placed, where they settle, ghettoisation — what a detestable word — is a terrible thing. Immigrants must be settled where there are Finns, where they speak naturally the language in which they live, and in which, according to the natural method, they also learn the language. In addition, I would like to see a little attention drawn in this country to the fact that some immigrants already have a profession when they arrive in the country. Perhaps we could check out and see what this previous education is and use it here at the integration stage and at the time when people move in. Third: It should be distinguished that there is not only a group of ‘immigrants’. We have refugees, asylum seekers, workers and posted workers, and also highly educated people, but they may be in another category. They are usually so-called visitors, bringing hi-tech to us, doing a project and leaving with their families.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u61	Minister Lindström, two minutes from that location.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for a proper debate on the difficult theme. In fact, I would like to comment on this issue of language skills. Of course, this integration and all the training it involves is much more than language training. For many years, this integration training has been criticised for overemphasizing language learning at the expense of, for example, social inclusion and work-life orientation, and that is why the content of education has now been diversified. That was before Christmas we had this kind of award ceremony, which therefore rewarded players who have achieved good results or have themselves been involved in doing that integration work. I just remembered a young woman from the United States who had spent years trying to learn Finnish for as long as eight years, and then she had an Ahaa experience that there was another official language, Swedish. He learned it pretty quickly. He learned Swedish, became integrated, so he got a job, and now he says he's working, he knows what's going on here, he knows what people are talking about. And he has not left here, but now he has time to focus on those studies in Finnish. Here is a good example of practical life, how these things can move forward. With regard to the role of the third sector, all these organisations have a very important role to play in supporting integration and must be strengthened so that resources are directed towards it and then systematic cooperation between the authorities and these organisations. And the Ministry of Employment and the Economy is currently preparing an integration partnership programme to strengthen and clarify this cooperation. This too will probably indicate that we are already doing something about this, that we are not waiting for action here. Of course, I regret that when this is such a complex and big thing, it really takes time. But we haven't been idle.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u63	All right, then let's go on the list for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u64	Madam President! This process in the Committee on Audit was indeed very interesting, and I think the debate in this Chamber today has been very good, and good points of view have emerged. First of all, I would like to pick up on the fact that President Heinäluoma raised the awareness that the school performance of children from families with immigrant backgrounds in relation to children from the country is the weakest in all the countries studied by Pisa. It is of course quite a concern that we in a country with such a good educational system have not succeeded in integrating these families, but what is even more worrying is that for second-generation migrant children these results are even worse than for the first generation. Of course, it raises questions as to why. It must be said that there are differences between the different groups of immigrants, i.e. the culture of the country of origin also contributes to this. Personally, I think that mothers of immigrant families and children have a major role to play, as do mothers in general, in the schooling and success of children. Indeed, a stronger obligation to participate in integration would also protect those women whose spouses may not even be very willing to allow their wives to take language courses or work. Examples of these too have emerged that, unfortunately, sometimes men may prevent their wives from accessing integration services. If we had a clearer obligation, then this would be the right of these women. Language education and social education are also important for these women, who are now in the shadow of integration measures, so that they also know their rights in Finnish society and are able to act accordingly. Indeed, unemployment is an important indicator of the success of integration. Among refugees, the unemployment rate remains 35 per cent. We also see that sufficient integration is a profitable investment. In 2016, the allocation for integration amounted to EUR 340 million, but at the same time, immigrants were paid social assistance resulting from unemployment, i.e. basic daily allowance, labour market support and housing allowance of EUR 484 million. Indeed, the cost of unemployment is higher than the cost of integration measures. Asylum seekers will be in reception centres for about a year before they receive a decision and then move on to integration measures after a positive decision has been taken. That is why it is also important in this context to talk about what is happening in reception centres. After all, these people are paid a reception allowance which can be reduced by up to 20% for two months if, without reasonable reason, a person refuses to pursue a job or study activity, but according to the information we have received, these reductions are virtually not being made, i.e. this principle of obligation is not being used in practice. One of the reasons that arose was that the sanctioning of customers is seen as a safety risk, i.e. that people are afraid of reacting to security, risking it if they are deprived of reception money. That is why the committee has indeed pointed out here that it would also be useful to develop this reception allowance in a more encouraging direction in order to promote activity and learning. I draw attention to the fact that participation in the integration programme, for example in Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands and Austria, is compulsory and also a condition for obtaining a permanent residence permit. This could also be put into practice in our own countries. Furthermore, in some countries language skills have also been recognised as such. Finally, President-in-Office, I would like to raise the issue of the third sector, civil society, which really plays an important role in supporting integration and also in creating friendship and networks and everyday networks between the peoples of Finland and immigrants. For example, folk high schools have been very quick and flexible in providing integration services, and organisations also support and enable the inclusion and active participation of immigrants in civil society more effectively than public authorities. The Committee therefore believes that the third sector's contribution to integration should be significantly increased. There are also good examples of this from other countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u65	Mr President! Immigrants are different, they are a very heterogeneous group, and their integration must take this into account and also what demands are made of them. Improving the functioning of integration is indeed noteworthy and necessary. The more serious consequences of failed integration can at worst be seen as an increase in crime, which we have recently also heard through the media. The long process of asylum is a very challenging period, and then it also exposes a variety of abuses if it is not actively exploited. It is very good, therefore, that the report by the Committee of Auditors has raised the question of compulsory integration training, both in language and in Finnish culture, so that knowledge of Finnish society's policies, rules and values must also be included in integration, and it is also essential that it is measured, that it should be tested and that there should also be a goal: it must be achieved. Situation of immigrant women: It is very important to involve them actively in integration. In particular, for these asylum seekers, I see that learning Finnish or Swedish is of paramount importance if they are also to be able to help and participate in school activities and with other parents. The employment of women is also an important part of getting into culture and also learning what is permitted and what is not allowed here and also learning to uphold their rights and the rights of their children. Then we are also talking about the transfer of overall responsibility to municipalities, which will certainly make sense for integration at local level in the future, but it must also, of course, be taken into account when it comes to funding, where the money can be found. The inclusion of organisations is very positive and worthy of support. This is a good starting point for further development of integration services.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u66	Madam President! In time, I made a thesis on the general history of migration history at the university. Of course, that was a long time ago, but I still remember one of them. Immigrants — these groups are of course diverse, but if immigrants and people move in after work, whether they are Finnish or from any country — are generally very enterprising. Once they have come to the country to which they have traveled, they work hard, are active. The starting point is that they usually have nothing to lose, they have much to gain. Regardless of the reason why Finland has come to Finland, the situation is usually the same: there is much to gain, little to lose. That is why it is important for these people who come to Finland to be caught quickly. The time allowed for that integration is close. They will be included, and they will also have the courage to expect their own activity, as Minister Lindström has pointed out here. I don't remember a story or a history lesson from that time in college that in any society a group of aimless and inactive young men would ever have led to anything good. If that energy does not break out in a reasonable way to work or study or some other upbuilding activity, the results are usually bad. That is evidenced by history. This report. This is a fine piece of paper, I read it last night and I repeat this point, which is said to be a subsidy addiction, that it is dangerous if the standard of living of an immigrant is better in that way than in the country of origin. So there is no harm in it, but it is bad if they learn that there is no need for their own activity and that the standard of living is formed, as it were, by means of their subsidies, to be sufficient and to satisfy their needs. Its own contribution and activity will disappear in it, and that sensitive phase will be just like learning a child at the beginning. When a child learns and grows up, the first three years are critical, and I would say that for immigrants, immigrants, the first three months is the critical time. In that time, they will see how they are viewed and what is required of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u67	Mr President! This debate on integration is strange in the sense that no one seems to be asking what integration is needed for at the end of the day. After all, we have been marketed with immigration as a cure for labour shortages, sustainability shortages, depopulation and whatever, and now we will be told that those who move here would not be able to live in Finnish society without help. Would it not be a basic condition for someone who is expected to bring a positive result to society to be able to take care of his own affairs first without being helped separately? Somehow I think it is even a little comical to talk about the integration of an American into Finland in this context. Is there anyone in this room who thinks there has ever been a problem with the integration of any American into Finland? I think we all know what we're talking about here, even though a lot of people here don't want to say it out loud. There is a lot of good in the committee's opinion, especially in the case of individual issues such as the fact that interpretation services should not be available indefinitely. It is strange, of course, that such a self-evident thing must be said separately, but it is good in itself that it has been said. I also support the idea that the demand for language skills and participation in integration would be a prerequisite for obtaining a long-term residence permit, but these too are, in my view, perfectly obvious things that should not be said separately in a country where reasonable people live. I would like to stress two things in this regard: firstly, that we should think about our own affairs first, work for the unemployed in our own country. Then, if anyone else is needed here, we would try to get visitors from nationalities and cultural backgrounds that are proven to be compatible with Finnish culture. It is pointless for us to go out of our way, especially when we already know who, on the average, is causing the problems here. In contrast, there should also be a clear distinction between benefit-and-disadvantage migration, a clear distinction between asylum-seeking and work-related immigration. Most of the people who came in 2015 will not be here legally. They do not need integration for their part, but repatriation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u68	Madam President! In this recent unanimous report on the functioning of integration, the Audit Committee outlines Finland's integration policy for a new era. The report shows the committee's common strong will that integration issues must finally be put in order in Finland. The integration system and the integration of immigrants have so far not worked, which is reflected, among other things, in the poor employment of certain immigrant groups and in poor language skills. The committee has carefully examined this current integration system and its problems and has tried to look at it with a new eye, particularly from the point of view of the employment of immigrants. A functioning integration system and an immigrant's desire to integrate are in the interests of both Finnish society and the immigrant itself. The rights and obligations of immigrants must be balanced. In the past, there have been more rights than obligations, and this cannot continue. In the future, integration must be made more binding on immigrants and the starting point for integration must be that one year. The committee believes that the obligation to train languages should be increased, among other things. An immigrant who has received a residence permit must demonstrate that he has achieved the level of the target language skills of integration training within a certain period of time. Therefore, in our proposal for a statement, we point out that Parliament requires the Government to increase the obligation of language training included in the integration plan of a resident who has received a residence permit, so that language training includes an examination of language skills. In this context, it should be stressed that the Committee also believes that serious consideration should be given to the need to limit the availability of interpretation services with public funds to long-term immigrants. In my view, access to interpretation services should be restricted in this respect. In addition, it is justified for Parliament to require the government to increase the compulsory nature of the study activities included in the reception services for asylum seekers, so that asylum seekers must be required to know the way in which Finnish society operates, culture, rules and values, and also to ensure this. In future, if an immigrant refuses to draw up an integration plan or participate in a measure specified in the integration plan for no valid reason, the right of the person concerned to unemployment benefit should be restricted. The reception allowance should also be reduced if the asylum seeker does not take part in studies organised at the reception centre. Until now, there has been a complete lack of measurement of integration. In this respect, the tests described above serve as a good indicator. However, first and foremost, the best measure of integration is the employment of immigrants. The improvement in employment and the reduction in social dependency will ultimately show how well or poorly the integration of immigrants has been successful. I would like to emphasise personally that the success of integration is one of the questions of the fate of Finnish society — we all know what the consequences of integration are. These examples can be seen elsewhere in Western Europe. Immigration must also be quantitatively controlled in order to sustain our integration system and thus succeed in integration. For example, the 2015 asylum seeker crisis must never happen again. Particular attention must be paid to the volume of humanitarian immigration. Mr President! All measures to increase the obligation to integrate are broadly in the right direction, and on this basis it is good to move forward. Once again, I would like to thank the whole committee for its constructive cooperation on this challenging theme. Above all, thank you for the ability to listen and talk and for the ability to understand one another.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u69	Mr President! First of all, I would also like to thank the Audit Committee for a very good report. The result was unanimous, and that is rare. Great! And I would also like to thank Mr Immo for a very good speech. The employment of immigrants has been studied through a number of studies. The fact that the basis for a residence permit is not always known has made the studies more difficult. Integration has not been successful during the transition from reception centres to municipalities, as the vast majority of immigrants are seeking in large cities and their own communities. This slows down integration into Finnish society. In 2017, 33674 residence permits were issued, of which 6,751 based on work. The majority of those who had received their residence permit on the basis of their work were from either India, Ukraine or Russia. Immigrant entrepreneurship was considered important in expert opinions, and since I was not able to ask the Minister for his opinion just now, I am raising one of the problems that has arisen in Turku. There are quite a lot of hairdressers' movements there, and now people from immigrant background have also established their own barbershops and they offer a haircut of 10 euros. Our hairdressers professionals, who have been working for decades and kept moving, say that less than EUR 20 this is not really going to work if you are going to pay all your obligations, taxes, costs associated with this haircut, and this is a little problematic when you fight for the same customers. Mr President! The committee notes that the obligations and rights of asylum seekers should be balanced. At the moment, living on subsidies is too attractive. The reception centres should teach our society more in-depth ways of working, culture, rules and values. You should be able to verify your skills by organising various experiments. If there are no countries that promote integration, then the reception allowance should be cut. In Denmark, integration training is compulsory and tests must be carried out in an acceptable way in order to obtain a residence permit. In Finland and Sweden, there is no link between obtaining a residence permit and carrying out an integration programme. The results are not flattering. It would be important for Finland to control the problem of immigration. Labour-based immigration is justified because of a lack of skills, but we should primarily solve our skills gap with the help of Finns. The Finns have raised this issue strongly. Nor must we speed up the emergence of cheap labour markets through immigration. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank you for the key points raised in the committee's report. In other words, immigrant women are in a weak position and must now be given a drink to employ them. This Danish model is a binding model for immigrants, it would also be suitable for Finland. In addition, this importance of language learning is everything a and o. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u70	Mr President! I'm an immigrant, too. At least I filled out such forms when I moved back to Finland. Formerly, Representative Journal mentioned the usefulness of the English language. I am pleased to say that English is soon to be taught in Espoo from the first grade. And good reasons for that were given by Mrs Lehti in her own speech. Among the worst failures in integration I saw police expulsions and other expulsion missions. To counterbalance and to my delight, I also know the opposite examples, well-integrated immigrants, by which I mean not even those who drink in that station tunnel but those who work with an honest immigrant background. I thank you for finally highlighting immigrant women in the debates. I believe that the situations in which an immigrant woman does not have access to language learning and work for the cultural reasons referred to by Mrs Räsänen are in flagrant contradiction with the Finnish approach to equality. Mr President! Employment reduces the need for support, increases tax revenues and contributes to preventing exclusion, even radicalisation. The Minister is no longer here, I would have asked him why we should not for the first time remove the period for employment from the asylum seeker here. This is also the view of Finnish Entrepreneurs about the abolition of qualifying periods. Today I met a number of highly educated immigrants from different countries. They already spoke quite well in Finnish. They're ready for work. I then persistently encouraged them to look for a job, because unfortunately, Finland is spreading suspicion, outright racism, immigrants. We were also very much in agreement that a strict immigration policy is in everyone's interest. It also prevents racism when the perpetrators of crimes are not harassed. I also got some good ideas about preventing terrorist crimes, but I think I'd rather discuss them with the chief of police. Mr President! At the University of Helsinki, at the stage of a bachelor's degree, I read the study about integration. There were indicators of employment, crime and segregation. The study compared eight different European countries with a longer history of immigrants, immigration policy and integration. In short, the results show that in countries that had a more stringent immigration policy, i.e. the demand for employment and, on the other hand, for those who were more likely to leave, segregation was less pronounced. In that debate, I drew attention to the fact that the Finns of Peru are happy to greet the values that are converging with the Social Democrats. I thought that when the foreign law, the laws of expulsion, proselytizing, has been made, there has always been a demand here that it should not be possible to come in here like a hollihouse and still not be able to. At the time, the Finns were not yet in charge of those matters, so these values have been. The values that each country can decide on its own who comes here and for what purpose, have always been, even before the Finns of Peru. That's what I'm talking about. So this constant glaze about the fact that there is now one party that would have thought or thought about these things is wrong.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u71	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I too would like to thank the Audit Committee for its very good and thorough work. I was pleased to be a member of the Audit Committee when this work was launched, and it is great to hear and see that we are all in agreement here with this important issue of integration and theme, and we are also vigorously taking forward these proposals. In September 2014, I put a written question to Mr Päivi Räsänen, then Minister for Asylum – he has already left now – asking how Finland has prepared itself for the number of asylum seekers, and the minister replied that in a few hundreds of places we are ready to increase accommodations and that we should update the contingency plans, but there was no mention of integration in this reply. In other words, we were really surprised in Finland in 2015, and we were in a situation that was completely out of control, and that is what we are now doing. This is where Mr Yanar wondered that we are talking as if outside about these immigrants and integrations. I myself have been a nurse and worked there before being a Member of the Parliament in working life, and I do some jobs here and there, too, from time to time, alongside this Parliament, and I have met a huge number of these administrators with immigrant backgrounds, and I must say that they are not outsiders there, but we are. They're us, the working community, and we work together. And that is the goal that, when you come to the country, you learn the language, maybe you prepare for that profession and you come to work and then you grow and learn that language even more. But the problem is that language skills are difficult to learn, and I see this as a very big challenge from the practical field. Someone — a representative there — mentioned that language skills should be used to gain access to working life. I think it depends on the industry. No, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, We are talking about patient safety and about the need for the nurse and the person being treated to understand one another, because there is a great risk of harm to the patient. And these are also the risks we need to look at in Finland. We should pay particular attention to the fact that people go into the care sector to work — then there is the nurse, there is the doctor, there is the assistant staff — that language skills are in control; and to the stakes and the resources that people can learn. I myself have been living in Germany for a while and studying the language, and I know it and I understand how difficult it is to learn the language, and I also need to invest a lot in it myself. I am raising the hat to those immigrants who learn the language, who go into that integration process very seriously and who graduate into the profession. That is great, because it will also bring Finland up. Mr President! Then this matter of interpretation, which came up very well here. It is very important that at some point we say no more interpreting services, because it is also the responsibility of our own. For example, we in Espoo, of which I am from, and the problem in Uusimaa is that, for example, in day-care centres or schools when there are parents with an immigrant background, there are always interpreters there when different parenting evenings are held, and then, of course, there will be costs, and then there may still be the fact that parents may not be there. So we're going to have to pay for it. I think we should think very carefully that at what point is it said, hey, now we have to figure out a little bit, that we actually learn that language. It then comes to this position of women. Madam President! We have been talking in Parliament for years about the need for women with an immigrant background to be better integrated into Finnish society. Where's the problem? We may have to set up some kind of women's rucksacks, circles in municipalities, villages, cities, catch these people, take them in our arms and tell them what a woman's position is in Finland, what is expected of a woman: raise children, take care of the family but also go to work, carry them in that way. I think it's very important that we tell you about this. And this cultural background, which is very often found in these families: A woman’s place is there at home, and it may not be easy to get out of there. There are self-esteem problems, there is not understanding, there is difficulty in entering a foreign society. As a mother, as a nurse, as a woman, I understand it very well, but we should encourage it. If this is the line that is chosen, that language skills must be learned... And there young children already go to school, and often they counsel their parents. For example, pharmacies see these situations where young people in the family who speak that language help the elderly and their parents. Then there's gonna be one more theme I want to talk to you about. Old people. In 2015, then Minister Lauri Ihalainen, and Päivi Räsänen were also involved in this, you made this kind of notification The direction of integration in Finland, which was thick nivasse, and I read it from cover to cover, and there I discovered that older immigrants have been completely forgotten in our society. What's happening? There are, I'm sure there aren't very many, but there will be more and more. How, then, does their language skills correspond to what is spoken in Finland so that they understand as well? They are gradually entering social and health services. They need help there. So how do we meet them? This is a big, huge thing. That is not what we are talking about here, but I would like to remind you that it is a very big issue in the social and health sector. Madam President! Here are some of these themes I wanted to highlight. The role of a woman must be strengthened and the way in which Finnish society is integrated must be explained. — I thank the Audit Committee for this very good work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u72	Madam President! Ultimately, integration is always about immigrants finding their place in the Finnish community and experiencing Finland as their new home country — that is, a sense of inclusion. Yes, we need the input of ordinary Finns and, could you say, positive curiosity. As an anecdote, I would like to tell you when my village in the Gulf of Lapland had an Afghan female with an immigrant background in front of Osuuspankki and had a small newborn in the carriage. The great-grandmothers of Savola were around the chariots, and they struck their hands together and rejoiced that “the son of yesoncan, the son of yesoncan.” I thought that even though a common language was not found, he saw how that young mother felt approved and also that the surrounding community had taken hold of her. I thought it was precisely this type of encounter in everyday life that was needed to make a person feel that he was a full member of the community. We need a sense of community and we need to build trust, but we also need to tackle quickly all the problems we have been talking about recently. Nor can the importance of the organisation field be sufficiently underlined, because it must be said that the key role of the third sector in successful integration should be highlighted more. Many congregations are doing a tremendously good job among immigrants and should then be supported by public authorities by creating different opportunities for action in municipalities, for example by providing joint gathering facilities and also by granting financial assistance. Madam President! People who have come to Finland for studies or work already have a very strong starting point in the integration process, because the place of work and study offers a rhythm in the middle of everyday life and then also the local community through which you can quickly enter Finnish society. Of course, in their case, it is essential to provide sufficient additional language training both during studies and after entering the labour market, so that there is the opportunity to move forward and build up and exploit skills. But those most important challenges in integration relate precisely to those who receive international protection and those who come to our country through family reunification. For these people, there is a risk of such inherited exclusion and eventually even isolation from the native population into a separate subculture. This is the kind of ghettoisation we have witnessed throughout Europe, particularly in large cities. It is this group of immigrants that must be targeted at integration measures and their particular attention. Successful integration will certainly cost itself many times as much. Integration measures should start immediately after entry automatically in full order and then decrease as the need decreases. There must be less red tape. In any case, every immigrant has a need for integration. It is good that the consideration of integration measures, if you could say so, has also risen to the debate now. This was raised by the Christian Democrats in their own immigration policy programme, which was published a few years ago, and we also posted a press release on it, but it did not seem to interest anyone at that time and it did not become a topic of debate. For example, this is precisely what we said that participation in language training is such a feeble obligation, and at that point this issue was certainly not raised in Finnish society. It has now come to light that the good Lord, if there are rights, must also have duties. Madam President! There has been a debate here about the need to speed up the process of obtaining an employee's residence permit. That is certainly in order, because the situation today is that an asylum seeker can also have the opportunity to work. If a person who comes here for work and is seeking a work-related residence permit is stuck here and the permit for work lasts longer, unfortunately we will open up an attractive path to the fact that if you come here as an asylum seeker you may be able to get to work much faster. In the light of the views expressed here that an asylum seeker should immediately obtain a work permit and immediately get access to work, it is worth noting that we are not, as it were, opening the wrong route and telling them that hey, if you are applying for asylum and so you want to enter the Finnish labour market, it is a faster way than it is if you normally apply for a work permit and come here as an employee. There is a risk here, and that is what I think is worth considering here. It is clear that there will be a route or another, that is what employment is important in any case, but we should not go down the wrong path to open up the asylum procedure to another type of work-based immigration. That is why these two issues must be clearly kept separate, and it is precisely the worker's residence permit that needs to be speeded up in order not to do this wrong type of guidance. We also have to ask ourselves whether, at a time when an asylum decision is awaited, this kind of integration work could be brought up, which could also be a little more binding than language training, that is to say, a certain proportion of the reception allowance that would come from the integration of work activities. Participation in work activities could be, for example, participation in work activities at the reception centre or something that benefits the local community. After all, we have rehabilitative work activities. Similarly, it could be thought that asylum seekers have integrated work activities. This, too, is one of the things that already exists there in the immigration policy programme published two years ago by the Christian Democrats. We raised these two issues already then and for consideration in Finnish society. We must hope that this issue will now be taken forward and wonder how we really can better integrate people. It is a good management of language skills, and it is also a faster entry into working life. Madam President! In short, I would just like to thank you for raising the issue of women with immigrant backgrounds. In that debut I told you why it is so vital for its next generation too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u73	Mr President! The Audit Committee, as has been said on numerous occasions, has done an excellent job, has done excellent integration policies, and it is important that during this time we also evaluate the success of integration. On the basis of this report, a few comments have been made. Firstly, we want to measure the effectiveness of integration training and other measures and the commitment of the integrationist through experiments at the end of the training. These tests should test not only Finnish and Swedish skills but also information on how Finnish society works overall. The report also drew attention to the fact that people who had been in Finland for a long time also continued to use a lot of interpreting services. After well-functioning integration training, this should by no means be the case. It is a good point that women are wanted to be given a special place in integration in many ways. It is interesting to hear that many integration professionals, those involved in integration training, say that it would be extremely important not to have a male as an interpreter when drawing up an integration plan or in the initial survey, and it is stated that this is a point where the use of an interpreter must under no circumstances be spared. But it is also interesting to note from these professionals that we hope that women who receive integration money will also have their own accounts opened up. The report also referred to income traps which might not necessarily make it worthwhile for an immigrant to take part-time employment. Of course, it must also be borne in mind that part-time work is often the path to full-time work, and that is why I do not think this is quite clear about the way in which the question of the income trap, the question of income, is then assessed in terms of measures. Integration work is a permanent part of the services of Finnish society in the future. Immigration or integration is no longer a temporary project in the future. This means that there is a need for well-established actors to engage in integration. These include municipalities, other authorities, established third-sector operators and educational institutions that enjoy state participation. In a few speeches, attention has been paid, among other things, to folk high schools. Today they are doing a tremendous job in integration training. People and institutions engaged in immigration work are specialised experts in their field. It is therefore important that integration trainers and immigration service instructors are familiar with legislation and good practices. With proper guidance, many unnecessary visits are avoided. If there is a significant change in integration laws, care must also be taken to ensure that those working with immigrants become aware of these changes. This report has indeed also suggested that the integration period should be one year in the future — certainly a sensible line in many ways. At least after that year we should look at how far we have come and how we will go from there, but it should also be noted that the ability of immigrants to study varies greatly. If we want everyone to learn to read and write in Finnish, Swedish, we also have to accept that the length of integration time varies. At the same time, of course, care should be taken to ensure that a skilled and trained immigrant does not have the opportunity to stay too long to integrate. The readiness of Finnish working communities to receive workers with incomplete language skills should perhaps also be supported in some way as a starting point, of course, that work is the best integrationist, but it also requires the will to involve immigrants in working communities. In general, people are very positive when they come to Finland. According to experts, it is important not to lose that initial enthusiasm. Of course, there is a risk for asylum seekers that they will never be able to use what they have learned in Finland, but it can still be thought that Finnish social doctrine and understanding, for example, of gender equality, is the best possible development cooperation if the asylum seeker is turned back to his country of origin.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u74	Mr President! About integration: We have many successful integration cases or people who have integrated into Finland. For them we do not need these resources and these massive new measures. For example, we have immigrants specifically as their own groups. It's important that we don't talk about immigrants as a knucklehead. We all know that the challenges of integration are not a statistical challenge for the Americans or a challenge for Jews or for people moving from other parts of Europe, but rather a challenge for people moving from Islamic humanitarian countries who receive international protection. That is what this challenge of integration is all about, and it has not succeeded in any European country in the desired way. It is precisely humanitarian immigration from Islamic countries that has not been successful. It is good to consider whether any resources are sufficient if values and culture do not meet the values and culture of the country to which they are moving. This is extremely important to say out loud whether values and cultures meet, because we see that parallel societies have been created and are becoming more and more, depending on how much humanitarian immigration there is. Sweden has a particularly large number of parallel societies. There is a little less in Finland, but we can see exactly the same development. Then, do we have the balls? Do we really have the nerve to demand that the arrivals adhere to Western culture and our values? Do we have the right way? I would like to thank Mr Immo, because the fact that this is being discussed and taken into account and we are getting indicators means that other parliamentary parties are prepared to discuss it and we recognise and recognise the problem. It's always the first step. True, the Finns have already recognised this problem — well, since the 1990s these problems have been piling up, and the Chairman of the Finns Party has been talking about them for over a decade, and this is the last time to wake up to this issue if we do not want Finland to become Swedish in this matter. I'm the one who pretended that daycare kids didn't have these scarves. It goes against my values, that a four-year-old has a scarf on his head in a kindergarten. I learned about this, the day - care workers came to tell me that they have a new obligation: to make sure that a four - year - old keeps a scarf on. Well, I then made it an initiative for action so that we could adhere to the Western value base, that daycare did not include scarves. For me, the scarf they wear for religious reasons means that it is meant to show the woman’s place. But right away the centre snapped and said that there should be no denying that a four-year-old must be wearing a scarf in a day-care centre, and this shows that this is already being discussed, but do we really have the nerve to demand people who move here, to embrace Western values and Western culture? The Swiss have a lot of nerve — it is not an EU country, by the way. For example, you have to live in that country for 12 years, and then the citizens will vote whether you are integrated, and if you are, the citizens will vote for you to get citizenship. In other words, it has been made challenging to obtain citizenship and, as it were, it is necessary to put so much effort into citizenship that it itself motivates integration. In addition, there is automatic expulsion from serious violent crimes without the right to appeal. They won't go there for years to pay for legal expenses and other things. They want to keep a tight line, which is, of course, really great. But here in Finland, as many as 40 per cent of the income support customers in growth centres have an immigrant background. The employment rate is still below 20% in certain groups even after years of being in the country. These challenges need to be identified. We need to identify those groups where this challenge arises. Then I quite agree that if humanitarian immigration from Islamic countries does not succeed and leads to a parallel society, it will cost billions of dollars, it will lead to a huge over-representation in certain groups of immigrants, why on earth will we continue to do so? It is up to us here in Finland to decide. This is where we move and on what terms. And yes, we will be surprised again. When it is said that we were surprised from 2015, we can be surprised again. As long as we have a border open and we do not define who gets here at the border, then it will not be up to us, who comes here and for how long if we do not have border control in place. So let's take over border control. Let's stop this asylum shopping. No international agreement will force us to take asylum applications from safe Sweden. Let's stop it. Let's get border control in place. And how about we integrate those who are here first, now that we recognise these groups, and not continue this mass migration from countries where the integ panel is not successful.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u75	Madam President! Let me start by saying that that is where we held a small group meeting between the representatives of the centre, and we do not remember that the centre would have required a four-year-old scarf on its head. I think that this debate has been quite proper so far, and it is important in itself, and I think it is excellent that a common tone was found in the Committee on Audit, and Mr Immonen also represented it with merit and made good points. In Finland, immigration is not today's business. Of course, now that the 2015 volumes have increased, there have been some problems, but I would remind you that in the 1970s Vietnamese — the so-called boat refugees — came here and became very quickly integrated into Finnish society and working life. I am well aware of this when they have been in the home country of Joensuu and have behaved and adapted to Finnish culture and everything very well there. That there are a lot of successful cases. Generally speaking, I would say that we will have the opportunity to succeed on the basis of this report by the Audit Committee in the future in terms of integration. I had the opportunity to chair the steering group when there was a Raksa project in Kuopio, which was funded by the Ely Centre. It sought to find workers in the construction sector, and it was in that way that part of the week was language training and probably a short time ago other training, safety and working conditions in the construction sector were also provided, and so on. Companies also went very well with this cooperation, which means that the participants then had a couple of days to train in the companies. This kind of activity is quite good and to be welcomed in itself. Of course, it is a bit of a commitment to society, but the companies were very well involved and the results were certainly obtained. That there are good examples, and we can move forward. Of course, it must be remembered that cultures in the world are very different, and the value base for the population who have always moved here and for immigrants is not necessarily clear, and that is why this report has clearly taken the view that education on the Finnish social order, culture and value base is then being provided here. I believe it is a good entry, and I hope it will also move forward. That is what we heard in previous speeches — I think that was Mr Räsänen’s speech — how much money is going into integration today. Almost EUR 500 million, that is, large sums of money are being discussed, and we need to find such a common note in the whole Parliament between all the parties that we can move forward. After all, employment is crucial to the success of integration, and there are a lot of sectors with labour shortages and work needs to be done to eliminate labour shortages in Finland. Even then, these appropriations for integration would be reduced for a number of reasons. Tax revenue would increase, and then social spending on integration would decrease. All in all, this has been a good debate as a general rule. There have been some redundancies, but I believe that there is a common will in the Chamber that we have moved on and will certainly continue to do so in the context of the next government programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u76	Mr President! I think that this report by the Committee on Audit is an excellent piece of paper, and I would particularly like to highlight one point in this report. This has been the subject of a rather broad debate and also of a debate here, and what I think is particularly good here and perhaps should be given even more attention, is that it is stated here on page 26 that the committee believes that the asylum procedure is taking too long. When we talk about integration and the related challenges, perhaps the most important of which is language learning — which usually comes before you can even take up a job, as we are talking about transition to the labour market, you are not really able to move into the labour market if you do not have any language in which you can work — then the effective start of integration measures cannot really succeed until you have the certainty that you will be able to stay in this country. So we need a residence permit for this, and now we have a situation where we have a situation where, for up to three years, we will have this process with all its complaints before there is a guarantee that the person can stay here in Finland. Of course, even when the asylum process is in the middle of the reception centres and elsewhere in Finnish to train and provide training on this culture, but it will only be the most essential and most effective once you are sure of this. There is no point in us leaving very massive resources to use the integration of people who supposedly do not receive asylum, for example, at that point in time. That is why I would see it important that, now that there has been a broad consensus here on the need for investment in integration, we should pay particular attention to reducing the asylum process. I would also like to say that when we talk about immigrants, it is certainly not a very united group, as has been said here, and it is not just a matter of determining which region or which culture we come from. We have so many different, you can say, examples of how we have been integrated. I myself had a great opportunity in the autumn to attend the Student and Graduation Festival, where a boy from Pakistan eight years ago came here to Finland to write a matriculation examination and actually completed a triple degree. The key to how this was possible was that he, as a young boy, learned Finnish at school during the first year and was able to join his peers in an ordinary school class and study. I think that such examples will encourage us that, when we can only deal with this issue, we will also have this immigration as a resource rather than a threat to Finnish society.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u78	Madam President! This report by the Committee on Audit on the functioning of integration is a very comprehensive and good document overall, and these Committee's proposals for contributions at the end of this year, paragraph 9, are also very welcome. Action on integration must be stepped up at all stages since the arrival of an immigrant in Finland, as stated in Section 3. And still with regard to this obligation, which has been raised, I would like to raise the issue of language training. Language training is compulsory and includes a language proficiency test. I think it's very good. The asylum seeker must likewise be required to know the operating methods, rules and values of Finnish society, and there must also be an experiment to ensure this. I myself believe that this obligation of compliance should be made even more effective in practice in such a way as not only to talk about knowledge of policies, rules and values, but also to require compliance with society's policies and rules and also respect for our values. I do think a little differently from Mr Salmon above. I believe that the training and guidance of language, customs and rules should begin right from the first day in the middle of everyday life and living there, so that on the first day we learn a few words in that interaction and the next day more and at the same time learn those normal everyday practices in this society. It is very good to raise the issue of immigrant women, and here I would like to emphasise the importance of older women and older people in general. The elderly in these cultures are generally respected and appreciated, and it would be very important to pay attention to the elderly — and I would say also to the elderly — because many times, however, they have that influence in their homes, in their neighborhoods, and of course they should have not only sufficient language skills but also an understanding of this culture. After all this, I would like to point out the fact that although most of our immigrants want to integrate, want to learn and understand the language and our way of working, the fact is that we also have a small number of those who do not necessarily want to integrate and do not want to learn and respect our policies and rules. I think it is important that this small group should also be expelled and consider what measures are appropriate for this group.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u79	Madam President! This memo of the Audit Committee does have one blind spot: it does not count the productivity, costs and achievements of the various measures, and it seems that they do not even exist in this sector. This has been a little fragmented: there are different solutions, but there is little comparison between them, and these comparisons do not even really want to extend to countries with much longer experience of dealing with a similar issue, such as Denmark. In general terms, it is clear that the countries in which there are a lot of people have built up some kind of systems to choose work-related immigration, taking into account the labour situation in their own country. Language training, which has come to the fore here and there, is really necessary in certain professions, but this Finnish thinking is not necessarily motivating. I have found a few times, especially when we were younger, when we had exchange students every year, that there were people among them who learned to speak Finnish reasonably well in six months. Then they had to spend a lot of time on it. They had motivation. Similarly, there were exchange students who went out with people from the same country, which they themselves were not interested in the Finnish way of life, not to mention investing in language skills in particular. Even after a year there were a few words, a few dozen words, but no ruler of the fluent language was found among them. We're talking annual costs here. If this is to count all the cost of the consequences, then it appears that there is somewhere in 700 million — 1 billion. It may be that average integration takes from three to five years, and if you count the importance of this period before the workforce is introduced into society, it is quite a lot. Intensive training in this language training could therefore be an important option to speed up the adoption of the language, and it would also be easy to have a situation where there would not be so much chance of having a conversation with people from the same countries of origin, which usually undermines the adoption of the language. On these intensive courses, probably even some of which have been experienced by representatives, one week learns what you normally learn in one semester at school, perhaps more, and it creates faith that there is a chance to adopt the language. Of course, Finnish is important in Finland, but you can manage here anyway. In many areas, there is no need for a very large range of languages. The person who fills the supermarket shelf can survive by knowing the Western alphabet, but not everyone can. This actually suggests that there are very, very different levels of know-how in these immigrants' backgrounds, and they need to be identified at an early stage. It is not worth training everyone in the basics, some of them being able to act independently. Persons with academic education in particular tend to survive in a foreign environment largely on their own. But there is a need for support and, above all, perhaps cultural issues are difficult. They are profound, attitudes or religion-related, and their differentiation and acceptance of Finnish cultural practices is a very difficult, even impossible, process for many. In different countries, this is treated more loosely or more strictly, but in the country, as it were, to a certain point, and then, if there is no particular harm in the way other cultures operate, then it is also allowed in different countries. This reserve, which is present in immigrants, is so significant that the Finnish labour needs could be met to a large extent by these people, but it requires this integration and the achievement of employability. This is a major challenge for society, above all for Finns, who do not have long experience of such hard immigration. But now, if we are thinking of dealing with evacuees or similar problems, we also have the capacity in society. When we take action, we also get results.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u80	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Audit is indeed unanimous, as has been said here, but not all groups have been involved in this report, because not all groups, including the Left Alliance, are members of the Committee on Audit. This report contains good reflection and good, solution-oriented thinking, but also blind spots and some question marks or perhaps over-simplified proposals for solutions. We are somewhat concerned if the correct objective of improving integration itself leads to too rigid a time-limit and then leads to integration services and time limits not serving different needs and individual situations. Mr President! As has been said many times here, the country comes from different starting points and on different grounds with very different backgrounds. Integration is not just a matter of asylum, as some here have claimed. Integration needs and integration needs also exist in work, study and family-based migration. For example, there is a great need for language training in addition to work. If you come to a country on a work-based basis, you may work in English and then you cannot or will not take part in Finnish language training, then if that job goes under for any reason, it may be difficult to find a new job if you do not have language training and other integration measures. More attention should also be paid to integration, for example for international students. A lot of international college students leave Finland after they graduate. It may be the reason why you have not committed yourself to society, have not been integrated, have not learned a language, and it is a great loss for us, Finland, if we have work-based immigrants and study-based immigrants who leave after having acquired work experience and education. On the other hand, this also applies to asylum seekers, and I personally would see that integration measures should be introduced for asylum seekers at the reception stage. Not all asylum seekers stay in Finland, do not receive a residence permit, but I do see that it is very important for those who remain here, that they receive integration, meaningful activities and learn skills and knowledge already at the integration stage. Even for those who do not remain, it does not necessarily go to waste. They can use the skills and knowledge in their lives then in the country where they go after leaving Finland. Mr President! Integration is not just an integration system and language training issue. There is also a need to look at other conditions for integration. The identification of education and skills is particularly important. The better we recognise the previous training and skills of immigrants, the better it will be for them, but also for society. We also need to consider how to guarantee vocational training for immigrants, if they need it, or other training and continuing training, and these issues should also be further considered in integration policy. Vocational training, for example, has not been addressed in this report. Mr President! Learning differences between children and young people with an immigrant background need to be addressed and narrowed. Participation in early childhood education is an essential issue. The limitation of the subjective day care right does not serve the integration and learning of immigrant children in the future, because, as we know, early childhood education has a very significant impact on later life and learning. Mr President! The family is also essential for integration. Getting a family to Finland should therefore be made easier and not more difficult, as the government has done. Social relations and links with the surrounding society are also an essential factor in integration. This is where the third sector can do a lot. For example, sports activities are also a very good route to integration. Mr President! The quality of integration systems and services and the reduction of fragmentation are important, and this is what this report has drawn attention to. The proposal to build up responsibility for integration in municipalities is good and worthy of promotion and consideration. On the other hand, the Growth Services Act adopted by the Government would go in a completely different direction and, if implemented, would not implement municipal responsibility, could even increase fragmentation and reduce the quality of integration services. So I really hope that the Growth Services Act, in its present form, will not be adopted by this Parliament. Mr President! Integration is a two-way process. According to studies, Finland has a lot of discrimination against immigrants in the labour market and racism in everyday life, and these can also make integration more difficult. In other words, the surrounding society must also pay attention to its attitudes in order to improve the conditions for integration. Mr President! As many have already said in the debate and in these discussions, the integration of immigrant women in particular must be focused, as the committee has also drawn attention to. This is where we need to get along. The need has been identified, and now we really need to start developing tailor-made integration measures for women. Mr President! The committee also notes in its report that subsidised work has proved to be a good measure to promote employment. We hope that this will be taken into account at TEM, the Ministry, because the conditions for paid employment have been reduced and limited in recent years. In other words, subsidised work should be made easier and increased rather than cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u81	Madam President! Just a brief word on this report from the Committee on Audit. I think it is good to see that the House has raised the issue of how important and good it is that these integration issues should be taken forward and the means to do what is to be done to ensure that this works well. But I personally think it is good to remember the importance of education as a prerequisite for getting a job. It is a good thing that attention has been paid to it, but I would also like to raise the issue of this aspect of teacher training, that this integration training should also be highlighted in such a way that they are as diversely aware of the starting points of these integrations as possible, so that they can apply it in such a way that those who integrate it feel better about teaching for themselves and thus be able to learn and adapt much better. It would also be very important for them to learn these so-called professional languages — the professional language, which is spoken about something to do, know-how, turning things around, anything to do with work and the profession that is being done — to be able to control it. It could even go so far that the teacher could also take those words with him in the original language, which the person to be integrated has. This would certainly improve their chances of surviving in this vocational education and training in Finland, finding jobs and doing better here in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u82	Mr President! I made a speech here earlier in which I sought employment and thanked you for raising the focus of immigrant women, and I would like to thank you for all the other speeches where it was intended to advance the possibility of language learning and employment in the case of asylum seekers immediately after arrival. If, then, the asylum seeker did not find grounds for asylum in the investigation and then had to leave the country, I do not see that there would now be any undue harm. I think Mr Sarkkinen mentioned it too. Mr President! The MP is not obliged by the party, not by the interest groups. He is bound by the Constitution: he must obey justice and truth. I am thinking now of all the women and men who control Finland's borders, the Border Guard, which prevents illegal border crossings, illegal goods, weapons and drugs, and also investigates border violations. They do valuable work every day and are highly skilled, and here Mr Huhtasaari claims that the borders are open. They are as open as when you, the Finns, were in the government. [Laura Huhtasaari’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u83	Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u84	Mr President! In its report, the Audit Committee states that the employment rate of immigrants is lower than in the rest of the Nordic countries. It is about 10 to 15 % smaller, and this is particularly the case with women's unemployment. Sometimes it is thought that the Finnish language would be the one that would make integration so difficult that employment could also fail to this extent. But on the basis of what I heard about integration training, when the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities heard here, when we made a statement for this report, an expert — who himself is an immigrant, he is now in that organisation — said in that way that we in Finland do tell immigrants these rights and also the obligations that should be done here, and he stressed precisely that we should all be given a duty, including for those women who are very vulnerable to stay at home in a few cultures, to learn the Finnish language and therefore also to seek work when it comes to it. As far as this employment is concerned, we should change the legislation in such a way that those who are the most vulnerable have equal rights to participate in Finnish working life as all of us do. In other words, it is not in anyone's interest to prevent immigration from having access to employment for the first few months — and then it will be difficult to do so. Last season I was on the Nordic Council's social committee, and with it we went around two places where there were immigrants, one might say, a lot of them — in Denmark's Aarhus and then in Malmö — and in both places the problem was that, once the big rental properties owned by the municipality had previously been in those Swedish and Danish residents, then when immigrants had arrived and had been specifically concentrated in that one place, both places had gradually become such places that there were no longer local, indigenous Swedes and Danes but all immigrants. It was, you might say, sad to look at the statistics where half the group actually left the education very little, that they didn’t really learn to read. And the other side that was left in this bad position was those young boys who were actually left out of the categorical society in such an environment. I would hope that we in Finland do not colonize immigrants in that way and do not allow them to focus on some places where this kind of ghettoization would take place.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u85	Madam President! Indeed, the cornerstone of integration is language teaching, and the Finnish Language Board has expressed its concern about the quality of language teaching in integration education. According to the Finnish Language Panel, integration training is by its nature a typical public service supporting the functioning of society as a whole, the organisation of which is no longer a viable solution for ever-increasing numbers of people to be trained on the basis of a tendering procedure. Indeed, when trainers change according to competition, long-term working life links cannot be built up and training providers do not necessarily acquire the skills that ensure the quality of teaching. That is why the report stated that in its opinion the Board considered it most natural that the responsibility for organising integration training should lie with the Ministry of Education and Culture, which has the expertise to ensure education and its quality. The committee has not made a statement on this matter, nor has it really taken a position on this ministerial matter, but I believe that this too should be seriously considered whether the Ministry of Education and Culture would be the right ministry to direct this language teaching for immigrants.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u86	Mr President! The problem here is that we still have that western border open. There is proper border control at the eastern border, but the western border is still open. The government has remained the same, some of it has gone blue, but at least as far as 2015 I insist that we have border controls and we have to turn asylum seekers from the border, and I also demand that we do not accept asylum applications from safe countries. Of course, today’s Finns did not have a say in the government, but we did manage to obtain common records. For example, such immigration registration can be found on the Government’s website, this is written in 2015: ‘Finland is becoming acquittal to the EU Member States with good external border controls and every country has a responsibility to register asylum seekers. Unregistered movement within the Schengen area must be stopped. Finland is making an asylum policy in the EU in order to achieve these objectives.’ No international agreement will force asylum seekers from a safe country. On the contrary, it is our primary task to put the safety of Finns first, so these can well be interpreted from the Finnish security front. Australia and many other countries have signed the same agreements. It is, of course, a matter for each Member State as to how these agreements are interpreted, but it is a priority for Finns to protect their own citizens. I do not understand what kind of people allow such things to happen to themselves, to keep the borders open. We don't know who's coming here, how long they're gonna be, what they're gonna be doing here. There are at least billions of euros paid, rapes, murders and even the first terrorist attack. It is very sad, therefore, that other opposition parties, after all this, did not go along with the intermediate issue raised by the True Finns. Apparently, all other parties feel that things are still good, or else there is no courage to say that enough is enough, Finns first.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u87	Madam President! The audit committee's report was unanimous. But these are the shortcomings in which Mr Huhtasaari intervened: border controls. Let us take an example: we are here, ministers, representatives. If there's a visitor here, there's a security check. They're all checking who's coming in here. So it's safe to be here, and it's a good thing for the minister to be looking at that box. No one's threatening anything. But what about the voters who have voted for us here? They don't care much about them. No inspection of any kind, no matter what kind of terrorist came here. He's just saying that sanctuary, and welcome. But what has been done about this integration? Congressman Elovaara had a performance right there. I read this list a little while back when I was running out of time. For there are many pages of these if you want to look, and I can take some of that, a few examples. I will continue with the previous one: a project planner on mental health competence in immigrant organisations, a lawyer from the Immigrant Employment Association, director of the Immigrant Advice Centre, coordinator of refugee peer group activities, expert at the Multicultural Information Centre — what is that? — a civil servant responsible for the development of the civic activities of immigrants... I don't think you'll be able to read any more of these. This is going to be age and health. These things have already been put in there to make it work. It is now being considered that more of these posts will be set up, that then, as if that job were going to happen in some way. Well, if this gentlemen here, what's here, hasn't done anything yet, then what we should be training more of these kind of chiefs here to mess up the work. If the Audit Committee and I had used common sense and honestly said that we have failed — as was of course stated in it — and then the Committee on the Future presented a report saying that we will ‘continue to fail’. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u88	Madam President! Indeed, it must be said that integration policy is not working at the moment and new decision-making is now needed to remedy this situation. The best way to integrate a person into this society is work. When you have your own work and something to lose, these values of society are also easier to accept. On the other hand, immigration must, of course, be controlled. If it is out of control once and for all, then it will be more difficult to make this integration policy. I would like to draw particular attention to the promotion of the employment of women with an immigrant background, which has also been highlighted in this report by the Committee on Audit. My wife works as a school counselor, and she said that it is very difficult to get those children to succeed in school and learn a language whose mother, an immigrant mother, does not speak Finnish. If the Finnish language is not used at home, it is very difficult to internalise the Finnish language. Participation in working life would involve women with an immigrant background and their families more closely in this society. It is then another matter of what kind of value is there in the family, whether or not the mother of the family is allowed to participate in Finnish society. It is women with immigrant background who are at risk of mere social security, and it is a time bomb. Their integration must also be improved by reforming home care support. As has been said in this report by the Committee on Audit, women with an immigrant background should be made a special target group, because mothers are crucial to these families in terms of values and how children are raised. In the sense that this has already happened, that we now have a large number of people here, people from other parts of the world, we need to make adjustments so that we can really get people to integrate into this Finnish society and, in particular, through their own work, also create a world of values here that is easier for them to defend.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u89	Mr President! Mr Hakkarainen, you said that the new integration plan will fail — you may have referred to it. [Standard Call] I like to think constructively about solutions together, because we have all said that there are many failures in integration, although there are good successes, as has been said and I myself know, but clearly there is a need to make changes. And indeed, Mr Huhtasaari told me that there have been rapes, there are sexual harassments and murders — or murder, I can no longer remember the number — that is absolutely true. We no longer need any such victims of sexual crime in Finland. We already have them in our own country, they're made by the Finns. That is why I must say that it is strange when politics can only talk about one thing at a time. At the same time, these similar issues of paedophilia made by foreigners have now been on the surface, and at the same time they are completely silent about the likes of the native Finns. I bet they're clapping their hands. From the victim's point of view, it doesn't matter what color the unsub's been. It's a terrible fate. Representative Huhtasaari defended the action, even though they were in the government itself when a large number of asylum seekers came. It would not have been possible to convert them to Sweden with a Dublin return: if they have not applied for asylum there they cannot be converted there, and it is good to know that. I know when I've been on the foreign police force doing both the asylum investigation and later the expulsion missions. Even then, Dublin conversions were made. My colleagues have made Dublin translations to the cases that have been verified and where they have applied for asylum for the first time or whether they have been. After all, the situation was completely exceptional. It has been put forward on the whole of the government's side, and now we are prepared to avoid such a thing. That is why, under the leadership of our Minister for the Interior, Mr Mykkänen, among other things, Finland's interests are being promoted in the EU, even in the sense that the asylum system must be changed — together it must be changed, not here alone, with a cup of thought on Finland's borders alone. This concerns the whole of Europe. Protect those who really need it. Mental health services for asylum seekers are a little criticised by Mr Hakkarainen. If you think about what happened in Turku, there must be something in the background, because a healthy person does not do this. When it comes to racism, if you encounter it here as an asylum seeker, you may be excluded, radicalized when you are here in Finland, not that you are already there — that must be remembered. Mid-term question: It was discussed that the Finns demanded it for safety. I hope you have looked at the statistics on what the statistics say about whether there is a real need for it. As cold as it has all been, what has happened in Oulu, is it any different in the final games? I consider it to be a question of your interim nature, because you are appealing to national security, because when we were here to close Article 10 of the Constitution, I wonder if you did not agree until the same day that it would be changed to enable the intelligence package to be put as a matter of urgency. You were not concerned about what happened in Turku at the time, but you were concerned that the content of the private message would not be interfered with. You could also have ensured in committee by listening carefully to how well it was taken into account that it does not interfere too much with privacy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u90	Mr President! As far as the facts are concerned, that uncontrolled crossing of the border at the time of 2015 was more about the failure of the European countries to comply with the Schengen Agreement, i.e. the release of people into the Schengen area without the right to stay in the Schengen area. They had not applied for asylum in the first country to which they came and had not presented any other travel document. At that point it should have been said a long time ago that Schengen would be frozen until this matter was resolved. That would have required border controls throughout Europe to have been forced to apply for asylum in the other country to which we went, and not, as we are now, to walk across Europe. At that point, the international system collapsed very badly and the agreements were not respected. But at the end of this debate on the integration issue itself, I would like to point out that when Minister Lindström concluded his speech with an interesting sentence which raised interlude at least from that green side: namely, if this integration were successful in Finland, we would be the first country in which it has succeeded. At least that is what I remember the Minister saying, and that may well be true. In my previous speech, I said that the Americans do not have integration problems in Finland, and in reverse many use the USA as an example of a great loss story of immigration, as a melting furnace where different nationalities get along well. Well, there has been no integration, but there is a very strong united culture, a strong sense of nationalism, forced to work, because social security is not paid idlely to a defector, and strong legislation with severe penalties if laws are broken there. Nevertheless, there are quite a few ethnic conflicts and other problems between large ethnic groups. So would it really be the case that the minister half-heartedly uttered a great truth? Integration has not worked anywhere else, so I wonder if it will work in Finland, I ask.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u91	Madam President! In that reply already at the beginning of the debate, I said that the Sipilä Government was appointed on 29 May 2015. So that's when the government started, which is still largely in place. In the beginning it was in the landscape office and drove itself into things, as it were. Parliament was not assembled during the summer, as is not normal, and certainly not the first summer after the elections. After that summer, in August-September, less than three months after the formation of the government, this avalanche of immigration began. I must say, in all honesty, that the Sipilä Government did not at that time have any chance of getting legislation or our system into the attack that would have been needed, but that the Home Secretary Orpo was implementing the laws that had been drawn up by the previous governments and parliaments, and they were poor in relation to that situation. So we got into that situation in the autumn of 2015 that the avalanche came and there were not necessarily instruments to make those laws. Now would have been the time for 3 years to do them, but still are not those things in order. Would it have been possible, then, in autumn 2015, to exclude asylum seekers from Sweden, a safe country, and return them to Sweden? That's an interesting question. Prime Minister Sipilä said in an interview that Finland could have returned them to Sweden because the Dublin agreement had virtually lost its meaning. Last week I put a written question about this: whether or not it could have been converted, and whether it is still the case that, if a million people come across the Finnish border, we must, on the basis of the Dublin Agreement and other agreements, accept them all, organise housing, maintenance and individual investigation into the existence of asylum rights and then recycle all these complaints and others. It is interesting to have the answer to that that would have been the case. So who is right, Minister Orpo or Prime Minister Sipilä, in whether we could have been converted? — I will. [The President : Continue with the toilet, please. — The speaker moves to the podium] Mr President! It is very important that we have a clear solution to this issue, a clear one, when even our leading ministers are completely opposed to it. We know that the starting point is that the country from which asylum was first sought has the responsibility, but what would have been the right procedure in this situation and whether these agreements are binding on us is an important issue. Mr President! This is where Mr Ruoho made a rather special speech. He first criticised, among other things, the fact that the Finnish Parliament Group, in connection with the question of intelligence law, did not express its opinion on this very sensitive and important matter until Tuesday when it was agreed to change the Constitution. We simply wanted to look into the matter and to find out what the government has agreed with the Socialist Party, for example, whose parliamentary group played a central role in whether or not the Constitution can be amended. A perfectly normal, honest, transparent report on such an enormously important issue. Then, when we received the report, we announced that we were prepared to accept the amendment of the Constitution because we consider the organisation of both military and civilian intelligence to be an urgent and important matter. There's nothing unclear about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u92	Mr President! Representative Ruoho criticized Laura Huhtasaari's critical speech on immigration. There were also sexual crimes. But the fact is that sexual crimes are multiples of crimes committed by people with foreign background. It's a fact. Above all, sexual crimes — whether committed by anyone — are reprehensible and must be condemned. And while we're still focused on the children, we're running out of words. It's so shocking. However, on this point the report by the Committee on Audit on integration has been discussed and the report by the Committee on Audit is rigorous and good. Its criticalness is therefore striking and it cannot be avoided that the proximity of the elections can also play a role. After all, we all know that the critical examination of immigration has for years been solely on the Fundamental Finns' agenda. And yes, we must be surprised, just as Mr Kankaanniemi said there that no other party went along with our question of security. It seems only the star movement would have left.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u93	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u94	Mr President! I propose that three statements of objection 1 to the report be adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u95	Mr President! I support the three statements made by Mr Ihalainen in response to protest 1. The committee's report, and the government's proposal on the basis of it, is in itself a good one — it is the implementation of EU regulation — but I see that the statements made in the objection are a necessary addition to the report. These statements are also in line with the content and spirit of the climate commitment agreed jointly by the eight parliamentary parties in December. Mr President! In the spirit of this climate commitment, it would be important, in line with the declaration, to require the cancellation of unused allowances due to the carbon ban or other additional national measures. The law allows the Government to cancel allowances under the circumstances of additional national measures, but Parliament should require a statement that this will also be done, as this national cancellation is the only way to ensure that the emission reductions achieved by additional national measures in the emissions trading sector are actually achieved at EU level, and it is not the case that unused allowances will then only be used in other countries. That is why this statement is necessary. Two further statements are also necessary. The flexibility between emissions trading and the burden-sharing sector should not be used at the beginning of the trading period and especially until the emissions trading steering effect is in place, which is not yet fully in place, so that statement is also very necessary. A third statement on the use of emission auction revenues is also necessary, as emissions auction revenues are likely to increase as emission allowances prices increase. We have a great deal of need for different climate finance and green investment in domestic and development funding, and these emissions auction revenues should be used for climate benefits. In other words, these statements, which are made in the protest, are indeed necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u96	Mr President! I would like to make a motion for a statement in accordance with protest 2. It is high time for Parliament to recognise the fact that Finland has taken over its share of climate action at this stage and now it is time for others to play their part. Until this happens, there is no reason for us to take new measures to harm our competitiveness.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u97	Mr President! To this Government proposal to amend the Emissions Trading Act, the Finns of Finland have a statement of opposition. Finland is making an ambitious climate policy, and that is good. We underline the fairness of burden sharing, and that is why a statement that also takes account of the importance of our national interests. I therefore support the statement made by Mr Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u98	Madam President! I'll be brief. I stayed to think about this committee's report in the framework of how it has been built in this way, but we have a parliamentary working party, which has been approved by all parties. [Department : Except for the Basic Finns! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u99	Madam President! So the Finns of Peru do not fully agree with these statements made by the Social Democrats and the Left Alliance. We missed out on these eight parliamentary party policies because we simply do not consider them to be in the interests of Finland. In this European and global context, the interests of Finland are not shared by anyone other than the Finnish Parliament. That's our job. Of course, we do not want to limit the measures of others, but we are realists and we believe that Finland's share is so small that even if we stop living in this area, the atmosphere does not change anything. That is very much said, and it is good to set an example in many areas, but this policy, which others are pursuing, does not produce the results, and certainly not in a sensible way, which we want to achieve. This procedure, among other things, makes the poor people of rural areas pay for climate policy, and we do not see that as fair. This recent car debate is an indication of the drastic failure of reflection in these matters. The decisions that we make must be based on careful consideration and adequate use of time in it, and the conclusions must be wise and not glaring. Mr President! This third left-wing statement proposes that these emission auction revenues be used in developing countries. Our starting point is that they should be used primarily at home and then consider how to invest in international contacts. We have been very generous in supporting a wide range of projects in a world that unfortunately has not benefited mankind, not the country or the people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u100	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 29/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-23-ps-146.u101	Madam President! This is a good bill, which has been dealt with in the Committee on Finance, its tax section. We are in favour of this. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Finns did not agree with these statements made by the left-wing parties, two follow-up statements. Of course, they will be discussed in greater detail at second reading, or it will be possible to deal with them, but there does not seem to be any representatives of these protesters here, so let me just say briefly that the proposal is in order and that monitoring is always necessary.
