ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-25-ps-57.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 5/2019 vp. The general discussion was closed at the meeting on 23 October 2019. A detailed examination of the third draft amending budget is now under way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-25-ps-57.u2	Mr President! My intention was to vote ‘yes’, as other people would have to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-25-ps-57.u3	Both paragraphs shall be recorded in the minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-25-ps-57.u4	Mr President! I meant to press the 'yes' sound, but I was late.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-25-ps-57.u5	In this case, too, the full report shall be recorded in the minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-25-ps-57.u6	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order 5. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the UaVM 3/2019 vp, it will be decided at the sole reading of the agreement and then at the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-25-ps-57.u7	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-25-ps-57.u8	Mr President! This bill concerns the strengthening of the obligation for continuing education in the education service. This is related to the need for teachers to be constantly informed about the content of education and it is also important for teachers to have access to further training. This brings responsibilities not only to teachers but also to the providers of education and training. Such a statutory obligation is, among other things, the responsibility of social welfare and health care staff. Mr President! The main content of this initiative is therefore as follows: The organiser and producer of early childhood education, education and training are required to ensure the professional competence and development of educational, teaching and guidance staff and supervisors. The maintenance and development of professional skills refers to the planned training provided to these personnel during working hours, which is necessary to familiarise such personnel, to maintain and develop up-to-date professional competence in order to meet the requirements of work, work tasks and the labour market and to foreseeable changing skills needs. The training, teaching and guidance staff and supervisors shall be subject to a personal development plan for professional competence, which shall be updated annually, and its implementation and effectiveness shall be monitored and evaluated. The personal competence development plan shall include an assessment of the professional competence of the person and of changes in the requirements of professional competence and their causes, and a plan based on this assessment of the needs for induction and training in order to enable the person to perform his/her work well and to remain fit for the labour market. Mr President! The current general obligation to familiarise and train employees has not been sufficient to ensure the training and continuous learning of supervisors and teachers throughout their careers. The development of the skills of education, teaching and guidance staff and supervisors must not depend on the employer. Every learner has the right to a skilled teacher. In Finland, 79 per cent of teachers believe that the development of professional competence has a positive impact on teaching. According to the studies, there's not much orientation available. According to Article 14 of the Labour Safety Act, it is the employer's responsibility to ensure that the employee is adequately trained in his or her work. It is important to educate managers and teachers in the field of education and in the well-being of managers and teachers, children, students and students. In Norway, for example, two-year mentoring of new teachers is regulated by law. In Finland, there is little training and support for early-stage teachers. According to an OECD study of international teaching and learning, only 18 per cent of teachers in Finland reported having participated in an official orientation programme at their first job and 23 per cent in an informal orientation programme. 74 percent of the lecturers say that they do not have a mentoring program available to their teachers at school as part of their continuing education. Nevertheless, 66% of principals considered mentoring to be necessary. In 2015, less than 5 per cent of teachers in basic education had received mentoring, around 3 per cent in upper secondary school education, and 6 per cent in vocational education and liberal education. As regards both those in employment and those in employment, it has been provided that the employer must endeavour to ensure that they are able to carry out their work and tasks, including when the activity, work or working methods are changed or developed. The employer must also seek to promote the ability of the employee and the office holder to develop according to their abilities in the course of their career. Teacher education in Finland is research-based and also very high-quality internationally. However, there is not enough investment in the development of the teacher's career to ensure an up-to-date and equal learning path for every learner in Finland. In 2015, only 77 per cent of teachers and management of educational institutions participated in further education and training. In 2015, the participation of teachers in basic education was about 80 per cent. However, for some groups of teachers the participation rate was only 50 per cent. Mr President! The co-operation laws oblige the employer to draw up annual personnel and training plans for the maintenance and promotion of the professional competence of employees and officials during the co-operation procedure. The plans shall include an assessment of the professional competence of all personnel and of changes in the requirements of professional competence and their causes, and an annual plan based on this assessment, by staff group or otherwise appropriately grouped, as well as the implementation and follow-up of the plans. These are mainly the needs and opportunities for continuing, continuing and retraining of employees and officials and the annual implementation plan. However, the compulsory nature, content and scope of the staff plan vary according to the size of the company. And I would also like to say that it is also necessary to support the principals in the management of knowledge. In the TALIS 2018 study, the principals felt that they needed the third most additional know-how to plan the development of their professional skills. Complementary training must be more responsive to the diversity of training needs of supervisors and teachers during their careers. Finally, Mr President, we have already taken this into account in the early childhood education law, but unfortunately other laws are not yet in place, or in any other law this is not yet the case. In addition, the employer's obligation to maintain the skills and labour market qualifications of his staff has been more clearly laid down in various areas. In the field of education, education and research, only the Early Childhood Education Act provides for this separately. The Act on Early Childhood Education, Article 39, sets out separately the obligation for the organiser and producer of early childhood education to ensure that the personnel of early childhood education are adequately involved in further training that maintains and develops skills. The implementation and effectiveness of continuing training shall be monitored and evaluated. The Decree of the Ministry of Education and Culture may provide for more detailed provisions on the content, quantity, organisation, monitoring and evaluation of continuing education. However, no regulation has been adopted. This possibility for a similar regulation is also laid down in the Social Security Act, and such a regulation has been adopted. A similar clarification is needed for all other legislation in the field of education and research, and at the same time the obligation of the Early Childhood Education Act needs to be specified in order to ensure the development of staff competence, by entrusting it to the organiser of early childhood education and training. In other words, this legislative package includes changes to the law on early childhood education but then incorporates the obligation for teachers to continue training and the right to all other laws concerning persons in teaching, education and training. -Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-25-ps-57.u9	Mr President! Risikko, Chairman of the Education Committee, and other signatories to the bill raise important themes for discussion and discussion. Thank you very much! Continuous learning, education, in-service training and versatile knowledge will take this country forward. The aim of the Government Programme is to create a Finland of Knowledge, Education and Innovation. The aim is also to promote the ability of teachers to cope with continuous learning. More generally, Finland needs the attitude that self-development and self-care are part of the work. All kinds of work requires an entrepreneurial and responsible attitude. It gives you the motivation to work. The work can become a calling and passion through which you can directly or indirectly help and support other people and society as a whole. The teacher’s work is very much like this. Having oneself needed makes work and life a meaningful part of it. Finns participate relatively much in adult education, but of course less than before. Skills and participation are piling up. Resources have been allocated to adult education in Finland, measured by OECD countries, among the top three. A large number of employees believe that the workplace supports learning. However, high-skilled and well-paid people in Finland participate significantly more in adult education than those with low-paid and low basic education. The accumulation of education is one of the leading OECD countries here in Finland. In any case, the participation of Finnish working-age people in adult education is at a good international level. According to statistics, Finland invests a great deal of resources in training the working-age population compared to other OECD countries, but the results are average. The reasons for this need to be identified. Consideration should also be given to why not everyone wants to take part in further training. What are some of the reasons we should turn our backs on? Education and work are difficult to reconcile, family members experience a lack of time, training is not arranged close enough, the employer does not support training, or it is too expensive or suitable training is not available. According to the TALIS study, teachers consider work schedules to be an obstacle, lack of incentives, lack of adequate supply, affordability and lack of employer support. According to the principals, there is an orientation, but there is no participation. Mr President! It is also necessary to ask what action has already been and will be taken in this initiative and in the same way. According to the TALIS 2018 results of the international study of teaching and learning, more than 90 per cent of teachers develop their professional skills by using, for example, professional literature, participating in various courses and teacher networks and making study visits. We will receive the next report on these issues next spring. The bill highlights the personal development plans of teachers. That's what every teacher deserves. The plan and the related discussion are part of pedagogical management and management of the competence of the educational institution. It is important that educational institutions have the capacity to do this. We're living in a big transition. Work disappears and changes, for example because of automation, new types of jobs are created. Working life is changing and its demands are increasing, including by teachers. According to the general obligation of the employer under the Employment Contracts Act, the employer must ensure that the employee can also perform his or her work when changing or developing activities, work or working methods. When we talk about continuing teacher training, we must not forget school leaders, principals. Leadership and leadership are important for the development of education. When the principal throws himself and gets excited, the whole school community gets excited. Mr President! The financial impact of the proposal requires further clarification. For example, for the duration of education, replacements are needed to avoid the loss of children and young people. If 80,000 Finnish teachers visit 500euro-paying training in Can such figures and amounts be paid by municipalities in difficulty? Such funds should be earmarked for the state budget, of course they will not be available for next year. In order for us to have the best teachers and thriving principals in the world in the future, we need continuous learning. Civility carries.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-25-ps-57.u10	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Risiko, for a good initiative. I'm a teacher myself. First of all, a few words that I wanted to pick up in this speech about what Risikko said in the introduction, namely that it is ‘planning’ to ‘and’to take place in working time’. That is clearly stated here at every point. Teachers are very committed to their work and certainly train themselves, study the subject, study and complement their skills, but many do it in leisure time, and the employer must be able to offer the possibility that it will also take place in working time. We have previously spoken here in the Chamber about bullying and interfering in school. At least in the past, teacher training did not provide teachers with the capacity to identify it and how to tackle it. It is also good to have further training in this direction. Subjects change rapidly in every subject, and in this respect complements are needed, but teaching methods also change. What teachers were taught about teaching two to thirty years ago is in many respects old. This legislative package, as it says in the presentation, concerns the whole field of education: early childhood education, basic education, upper secondary school, vocational education, university of applied sciences, university of applied sciences, but also liberal educational work, which should not be forgotten. And then there is every reason to raise this issue of leadership, the role of the principals, which was raised in this previous speech. The director and principal create the atmosphere within the staff how things are carried forward, and with the right atmosphere and right grip to achieve good results.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-25-ps-57.u11	Mr President! The legislative initiative now under discussion raises important concerns about sufficient efforts to develop the professional skills of educational, teaching and guidance staff and supervisors. The bill is well suited to the theme of continuous learning now under discussion. The initiative shows a sincere will to improve staff skills and the right to train in an ever-changing world. Much is already being done to develop professional skills, but there is always room for improvement. Both principals, teachers and other educational professionals already draw up development plans. I myself have been doing them both as a supervisor and as an employee. In this respect, planning and practical measures are already in place, and the evaluation of the initiative should therefore consider what would be new, so what would be the steak of the matter? The sector itself does not need any more papers, administrative tinkering in which time is wasted on secondary matters. This is not the intention of the bill, but this should be taken into account when assessing the initiative. However, it is a fact, as the initiative also points out, that there are regional differences in the development, quality and quantity of professional skills. There are differences between employers. They often also reflect the economic situation of municipalities and the culture of doing things in general. According to the results of the International Study of Education and Learning TALIS 2018, more than 90 per cent of teachers develop their professional skills through the use of professional literature, participation in various courses and teacher networks, and study visits. So the readings are quite high in themselves. President! I know from my own experience that the work of a teacher can also put so much pressure on you that you are no longer able to develop your own professional skills. For others, training is a moment’s breath from everyday life and an interesting opportunity; for others, perhaps a straitjacket and one heavy obligation is added. There has also been much talk of an end to work recently, and this phenomenon is also familiar to teachers. Some of the teachers have also sought to work in a completely different field with less burdensome tasks. Young people and children are smarter every year. However, the world is developing rapidly, the things to be taught are changing, and new teaching methods are constantly being created. It is not enough just to read and count, but to guarantee quality education, the teacher must stay on the edge of time and constantly learn new things. I myself have been away from teaching for about six months now, and during this time there have already been many new phenomena in schools that I have never heard of and which should be studied as a teacher. The world is going through its expenses, and it is the best way to keep young people and their educational and educational staff. Mr President! The bill raises genuine concerns about the updating of skills, the legitimacy of the development of professional qualifications, the equality of staff and the welfare of the sector. I personally see this in such a way that the obstacles to training should above all be reduced. These obstacles include, for example, the fact that in the middle of hectic work, at the extreme limits of coping, it is sometimes difficult to leave the eyes of a shine to develop and learn more. Therefore, first of all, help is needed in practical work so that you can walk away from it at all so that you have the strength, the will, the desire and the time to update your skills. Thank you, Mr President, and to all of us, the heroes of everyday life.
