ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u2	Mr President! It is an excellent thing that the government has put forward this proposal for an increase in the agricultural compensatory reserve. After all, the agricultural equalisation reserve serves in many ways the farmer's tax solutions and allows the taxation of earned income to be equalised. It is quite a small part of the importance of this provision, but it is also a tax credit and, above all, it is a pre-depreciation which facilitates investment by farmers who still have the courage to invest in agriculture. Raising that limit, raising the ceiling from EUR 13500 to EUR 25000, is a good thing. However, I would like to see this whole ceiling in euros abolished. This would allow all farmers to make an equally large relative reserve. It would be important for this change to take effect earlier than the government proposes. After all, the proposal is only on taxation for 2020. It could well be put into effect already in the tax year 2018, but at least in the tax year 2019 it must be put into effect. Excellent performance. I have to thank the government again for a good presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u3	Madam President! Finland has a very high degree of consensus on the need for its own national food production. We also understand that our own food production requires joint efforts to ensure the profitability of agriculture. Our natural circumstances do not enable us to survive in European competition. Furthermore, it is likely and, let us say it directly, it is desirable that food trade should be liberalised globally. Global food free trade is not a simple matter. It must not jeopardise food security in Finland or in Europe. Security of supply must be ensured, as must food quality. In the long term, however, there is a need to prepare for liberalisation so that we do not have to face a sudden adjustment similar to the one that happened the other day when Finland joined the EU. Investments in support of our own agriculture cannot be barriers to trade. There are also ceilings for direct income support. The aid must therefore also be channelled through taxes. The government's proposal to improve the terms of the agricultural compensatory reserve is therefore to be welcomed, President. However, two aspects give rise to reservations in this statement of support. Firstly, with regard to European Community legislation, the government's proposal has been made in a rather courageous way. The proposal refers to the need to hold discussions with the Commission on the relationship between the change in the interpretation of State aid rules. These discussions should always take place in advance and ensure this before the bill is presented. At least the elections are not a good reason to proceed to the weak spring ice of EC law. Secondly, proposals are a burden on agricultural-intensive municipalities. The final tax losses are small, but for small municipalities they can be a big gap in income. Although the proposal promises compensation, they are also left to later guesswork and preparation. I wonder how the state-responsible system will bend to such fine-tuning. So it won't just be forgotten later. It would have been appropriate to consult the Association of Local and Regional Authorities as well as the Association of Agricultural Interests at the preparatory stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u4	Mr President! I am also very much in favour of this proposal and I agree with Mr Kiviranta's view that it would be appropriate to consider that this proposal treats all farmers in the same way, i.e. that this ceiling should be abolished, because it does, however, have a percentage cutter in place. After all, this is not a question of permanent support; it is a question of making premature depreciation, which will then, over time, also come in the form of tax revenue. Yes, I, Mrs Tuppurainen, am surprised at this attempt at the EU, even when there is no reason to do so. Finland should not go out and ask all the questions, but we should start with what is in Finland's interests and then present it to the EU and take it through. I believe that the Ministry of Transport has succeeded in this recent, just the right kind of EU policy, and has not gone ahead of time to knock out its own proposals. Indeed, today young farmers must be encouraged to invest. It is absolutely necessary to encourage investment because the outlook is uncertain in many ways and the risks have increased. That is why such proposals, which at least contribute a little to reducing the risk of investing in Finnish clean food, are of course important, and we should not go in this direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u5	Madam President! Ensuring security of supply and a high-quality and clean domestic food supply chain and strengthening the vitality of the provinces must be seen as a whole to be taken care of. For this reason, I consider the government proposal before us to be a step in the right direction. The taxable person can now deduct the pure agricultural income of the farm from his tax return before the end of the tax year. As we have heard here, the amount of the compensatory reserve does not exceed 40 % of the pure agricultural income of the agricultural holding before the reserve is reduced. The balancing reserve has been applied in Finland since 91. The working group, which has now been working on this reform, was able to set out, among other things, the following objectives: the method should reduce the pressure on the cash principle for uneconomic solutions, and the method would not include the steering effects of the Investment Reserve Act. During the consultation, the rapporteurs broadly supported the project. One opinion suggested that the euro ceiling for the compensatory reserve should be abolished in its entirety, that is to say, as Mr Kiviranta would welcome, that the proposed ceiling should be abolished because the investments made are always proportional and in that sense it would be desirable to abolish the ceiling.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u6	Madam President! I will join with those who here greet this performance with joy. Improving the profitability of agriculture is of the utmost importance, and this compensatory provision can be used to amortise income in agriculture. It might be said that, in a certain sense, this compares, for example, with provisions of the type of investment reserve for companies, where it is possible to see at what stage there is a need to make larger purchases and then to generate revenue at the time when they are being made. At least I myself think that this is a very sensible way of making big investments in agriculture, even internally, by considering how to use it. I did not quite understand the way in which this would result in tax losses if, however, the question was that in agriculture this money was being invested in the production factor instruments needed to enable agriculture and agricultural income to be made in the future. A few duubies have been put forward here as to whether the ceiling should be abolished as a whole. Well, of course, it is important that transport is now overtaken by this model, and then perhaps in the future we can consider how to deal with the 40% pure agricultural yield and the maximum ceiling of EUR 25,000. On this entry into force provision. Of course, if it were possible from a tax point of view, why could this not be used for taxation this year, but, of course, better late than never, so to speak. Indeed, this is an extremely important opening, and I am happy to support this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u7	Madam President! What has been said here is indeed right. It is really important that we do things so that our clean food production can survive. It is also crucial for our security of supply. As to what Mrs Tuppurainen said about tax losses in municipalities, it must be remembered that farmers with higher income pay capital income taxes, the pharmacy income from which much has been screamed in this Chamber. That is to say, the farmers who have invested in good years can transfer little income to the following years, because the years are not brothers, and then, when the time comes for investments, they can be made even better. It is true that if the ceiling on the equalisation reserve were to be abolished, it would still make things easier for today, for the future. It would be important to bring this into force as soon as possible, and I fully agree with Mr Kiviranta on this. But I would certainly not be particularly concerned about the tax losses in the municipalities, since the capital income tax does not go directly to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u8	Madam President! This government proposal to amend the Agricultural Income Tax Act is a good and worthy proposal. I agree with what the President of the Tax Section, Mr Kiviranta, said in his own speech, namely that the euro ceiling for the ceiling for the compensatory reserve should be abolished so that the 40% threshold for clean income would be possible for all. It would then be independent of inter-farm turnover and, in that sense, more balanced from the point of view of farmers. Second, entry into force. This bill has been based on the assumption that it would only be implemented in 2020, but it would in principle be possible to do so even if it were already in the last year, in 2018, because it would not be exceptional for this to happen. But at least that would be possible in the taxation of this year, 2019. The equalisation reserve is in practice an investment reserve. It also makes it possible for farms to prepare for their own investments in advance, and yes, we must see that investment in agriculture is extremely necessary for the competitiveness of our entire food production. And it must also be borne in mind from the point of view of local government finances that investments in the agricultural sector in most cases, during the implementation of the investments, also bring a significant amount of work and livelihood to the locality in which those who participate then pay tax on the income.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u9	Madam President! I must say that I would never have thought of using this speech in this House and that we are going to have this kind of confrontation. We talk about municipal taxes and how we workers, employees pay municipal taxes and those who pay taxes on capital income. I am a passionate supporter of agriculture and a positive left-wing MP for the promotion of entrepreneurial activity, but we should see and dare to say that we are paying a municipal tax on raising children of families with capital income, with our municipal tax potential. But I think that this proposal is very good and should be supported. We need this and we want to ensure it. I agree with the government's proposal that this should be done. This is exactly what protects our entire food chain, our food chain. This is a small signal of where investment should be directed. And, as the representative said earlier, it is precisely that it gives certainty to where investment is to be directed, and it encourages young, new entrepreneurs through generational change or through someone else to move to this sector. Madam President! In a somewhat contradictory atmosphere, this speech ends now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u10	Madam President! This is a very good government proposal, but I think we should have the courage to look at the situation in which Finnish farms have fallen into. The fact that some balancing reserve or any other small tax detail of this kind is being changed — they in themselves are to be welcomed, and they absolutely must be adopted as soon as possible, but this final problem, which has been caused by Finnish farms, has constantly been this downward flow of income. The product produced and sold by the farmer on his farm has been at a discount for so long that the faith of the Finnish farmer is slowly beginning to come from the Finnish farmer that he is no longer able to pursue family farming. Of course, last year's spotlight has been this very important income from forestry for many farms, which has developed slightly in a positive direction in recent years due to the good market situation. The wood market has pulled, and the price has also improved slightly. This is positive news because for many farms forest yields represent a significant part of the pure output of the farm. But whether agricultural production comes out of the field or comes out of the barn, or where the farmer's income comes from that family farming, we should pay very serious attention to that in this house. The final report of the Karhinen Group on the measures needed to ensure that farmers receive a fair share of the further processing of agricultural products, that the trade and processing industry do not take everything away and that the farmer is once again left alone in the downward income stream. This is such a serious thing, this falling-out of food that seems to be in fashion in this country, and we only got to read in the paper and other media that we saw a new round of billing starting again. When are these central movements really starting to think about the real position of a Finnish farmer? This cannot continue by this means, that valuable workers are kept in a slave’s position, and then the central movement boasts with its great profits. And when you look at that field where this idea of cheapness came from, when this one, too, has come out of the cooperative business, I wonder where the conscience of these people is. Yes, the Finnish farmer is doing extremely valuable work for the Finnish people. If we are unable to produce our own food, clean, nutritious, good food in this country, then we are at the mercy of that world market, and that is something that Finland must never be allowed to do. At last, I would like those trade advisers and mountain counselors to start thinking a little more with the Finnish brain in their large administrative palaces.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u11	Madam President! The Finns of Peru value Finnish agriculture very much, and that is why I say, on behalf of the group too, that this proposal is in order, good and worthy of support. This is obviously part of the series that has been discussed in recent weeks in order to alleviate the plight of agriculture. After all, we had this temporary loan guarantee law, then the temporary abolition of the tax on crop damage insurance and now this compensatory reserve proposal. They're all good and necessary. In this context, I cannot help but be surprised that the Social Democrats have criticised the fact that the government has not bowed down in advance to Brussels and asked for permission to take this decision, which, in practice, is a move forward in a certain way and not a lasting relief to agriculture. These legislative proposals I mentioned earlier contained authorisations from the EU, and I recall that this fuel tax refund was already received earlier and was also applied for a permit from Brussels. This is such a groveling. However, it is a question of maintaining Finnish agriculture, self-sufficiency, security of supply, these very basic fundamentals for the safety and livelihood of our people and for the future of the rural population. These are absolutely essential. The Finnish Government must take a firm stance on not asking all the questions about Brussels. Even those countries in southern Europe are not asking questions but are doing so, and then over the years there may be reproach from the EU — which ones? I mean, those voters, they blame us on the streets and the alleys, but whatever it is, let's go. This is a very important proposal, but it has to be said in this context that all these recent government proposals are temporary, will help for a while, but the permanent crisis in the profitability of agriculture will not be resolved, and that is a major problem for us, which must be given some turbulentness to the government that they have not been addressed. For example, the share of trade and industry in the final price of food must be transferred to farmers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u12	We have now asked for answers. If there is a desire for a short Debat, it is now possible. I would ask those representatives who wish to participate in the debate to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u13	Mr President! In response to Mr Kankaanim's speech, I would like to point out that this is not a matter of subservience. This is about the fact that we have already had a similar system and are now re-introducing it, with the aim of enabling producers to make reservations for future investments. This is a normal system, and this is where this legislation is laid down and then the EU is informed. I am absolutely sure that this will not be complicated, because, in the EU, this same system has been applied, and it is good that it is now being re-introduced. Then the question of Kankaanniemi's criticism that nothing has been done. One good example of this is the drought package. The second point is that Mr Karhinen is currently finalising his proposals, which will then be heard more on Thursday, and then it will be time for them to act. In other words, preparation and work and decisions have been made — it is worth being open.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u14	Madam President! I myself interpreted Mr Kankaanniemi's view in support of this government proposal. We know that there are actually two main problems in Finnish agriculture: one is too large an expense structure, which I think should become a sort of study — hopefully Karhinen will take a position on this. The second is that, unfortunately, Finland will have to invest in a way that raises investment costs and will inevitably have an impact on the future capital structure and financial costs, and this is a big problem for large-scale investors. In due course, the government's attempt to abolish the property tax on agricultural production buildings was not successful, because the EU was against it, and Mr Kankaanniemi rightly criticised it: not bowing down to the EU, but taking national decisions, and if it leads to some reprehensibility, as was the case with the car tax, then it is 15 years ago to vatulate them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u15	Madam President! Mr Myllykoski, yes, we and the Left Alliance still have the same poor people, but I wanted to tell you that, according to the main rule, when capital income amounts to 20% of net assets, so often, if income is small, they do not even want to pay the capital income tax because paying municipal taxes is much cheaper. So we want not to go through the tax rate on capital income, which is 30% and then even higher for those who earn thirty tons. However, those who have invested in millions must, of course, have so much income that it inevitably goes according to its capital income tax. This is what I was trying to explain. By the way, self-employed businesses, many of whom earn less than two tonnes a month, actually make less than a quarter of the self-employed earn less than EUR 1000 a month.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u16	Madam President! It is Mr Kalmar's closing statement that is exactly what we fully agree on, not the cross-cutting word. The question is just how capital income is allocated to the municipality. And then it should always be taken into account in the social debate that when we talk about mining taxes and corporate taxes, we should see the whole thing that is the carrying capacity of the municipality, how the municipal service structure is paid out. In that sense, we must have the courage to have this debate openly. Let us not put our heads in the sand; let us be open and build this society together in such a way that, in the tax field too, we can see that the municipalities — and perhaps the provinces now to come — are able to cope with the taxation of labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u17	Mr President! In this debate, I will briefly address two issues. On this EU issue, I believe that it is precisely as Mr Anttila has said here that once this system has been in place before, I believe it will succeed there.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u20	Mr President! It is rather strange that this State aid card has been found again. After all, Finland's membership of the EU entered into force from the beginning of 1995, and this equalisation reserve has been fully unchanged for more than 24 years now. It was also raised in 2001 in an authoritative government with Paavo Lipponen as Prime Minister, Sauli Niinistö as Minister of Finance and Kalevi Hemilä as Minister of Agriculture and Forestry. This amount of euro was doubled at the time and the percentage was raised from 30 to 40, and no one thought it would be State aid. Then I would say that it would be very important for young investors to extend this period of use of the compensatory reserve from the present three to five years. It would provide better opportunities to use agricultural income funding for investment through this equalisation reserve, even as an investment reserve.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u21	Madam President! This is indeed an excellent proposal from the government, and what has been said here is very well-informed about the background to the equalisation reserve. This is really a great thing in the sense that it is precisely the balancing reserve that does not have to make them at the turn of the year, it is said, occasional or sudden investments when it comes to tax planning. I also agree with Mr Kiviranta's presentation, this five-year period. After all, we have a somewhat similar expenditure reserve on the forest side, and I myself have noticed that very suddenly the five years will be there if the things on the expenditure reserve have not yet been done. Just as we are talking here about investments in machinery, equipment, equipment, existing farms, the size of the investment is so great that it is, of course, good for us to reserve our own money, and that would be a good thing if this period were really longer.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u22	Mr President! In the past, Mr Myllykoski gave a distinguished speech and expressed concern about the poor profitability of farms and the plight of farmers. But the debate that this system would be a way to avoid taxes — this image is misleading. In a way, the equalisation reserve system is the possibility of ex-ante depreciation of future investments. It's not tax evasion. It is not a tax avoidance in municipal taxation, not in capital taxation, not in any taxation. It can be described as — if you want to describe caricatures in this way — that it will be able to pass on taxes for a year by making a pre-depreciation of future investments. And this link to capital income is also lame in that, in most cases, these investing holdings are in a situation of net worth that they are not even able to raise the capital income of the euro from the company. So, in that case, it's a matter of concern.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u23	Mr President! Let it be said once again that we are in favour of this proposal, but when Mrs Tuppurainen took the floor in her first speech, or in her only speech, that she should have taken care of the EU in advance, I criticised the fact that this kind of subservience is not from anywhere. Well, now the experts have told us how this is old and now it's being renewed. Mr Vähämäki has already suggested that it be extended to five years. It is good to hear that there is support from the main government party for this motion. Mr President! As far as the Karhinen Group is concerned, unfortunately it is still working and the proposals come so late that this government will not be able to do anything about them, and it will then perhaps fall into the hands of a government where possibly Mr Tuppurainen is the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry. Do we trust it?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u24	Mr President! In my opinion, this EU card by Mrs Tuppurainen was an exaggeration. Firstly, this is indeed an existing system. Secondly, income tax is a national competence. Thirdly, this is not a question of actual aid at all; it is a question of tax amortization, of amortizing depreciation in the longer term, of premature depreciation. Fourthly, I think we are too EU-oriented in some ministries anyway. I paid tribute to the Department of Transport. It has been possible to move things forward there, but the Ministry of Finance went from this vignette, which we have just discussed in that Committee on Transport, to ask for an opinion in advance. Of course, officials there are starting to trouble these things, and then we are in the middle of it. On the contrary, Finland must have its own proposal to take forward and then see if there are any problems. Required national
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u25	Mr President! This proposal moves, does not reduce taxation, and from a national economic point of view, this is of great importance for limited liability companies, and when this proposal speeds up structural change anyway, it maximises the fact that structural change in agriculture takes place faster than in the past. I think this is a good thing. I do not think that state aid is really, because it has been used in the past, and the EU is probably not at all interested in this. The period of use from three to five years that Mr Kiviranta proposed, at least I would support it, and I would also completely remove this ceiling, because it is a question of structural change.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u26	Madam President! This government proposal is extremely good and important at this point when we consider how to create faith in the future for young farmers, the faith to make these investments, and this is one of the elements in which that encouragement is also being made. And this is precisely not a non-payment of tax, but a balancing provision which transfers the year of tax collection. As Mr Kiviranta has rightly pointed out, this procedure has existed, and we are only changing the borders. I believe that there is absolutely no point in speculating that this is not acceptable to the EU. Now all we have to do is be brave and find these ways of creating the entrepreneurial spirit of the agricultural sector more and more.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u27	Madam President! First of all, I must say to Mrs Viljanen that I really did not mean matters relating to this bill. I am very much in favour of this, and I believe that investment and, in particular, the prospects for young entrepreneurs should be encouraged.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u30	Mr President! It has been well proved here that this reservation system is not a question of reducing taxes over a long period of time, but of balancing the result, the question of periodicity. We will be able to prepare a little better in advance, to collect a little buffer and an own contribution to investment. If raising this now to a small extent would make it easier for many farmers, you can say, who are in a rather difficult situation, I am delighted, and I am particularly pleased that there seems to be a great consensus in this Chamber that this is a good proposal. In this situation, I cannot fail to point out that this does not in any way resolve the situation of these distressed farms. I myself, at least, have recently stressed that we can all do a little more for Finnish agriculture by buying Finnish products and by being really strict that we are only in favour of Finnish food.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u31	Mr Hoskonen, then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u32	Madam President! Quite rightly, this equalisation reserve is indeed a very good tool for those farms that are going to invest in the future, and this will enable them to make money for the investment to be made. Consider, ladies and gentlemen who fear the circulation of taxes, that a farmer who makes an adjustment reservation and prepares for an investment even though he buys a tractor — likely to be Finnish-made when the tractor fleets of those farms are little watching — pays a huge amount of different taxes in that new product, including VAT and all kinds of taxes, labour taxation and so on. So this way, if we can get this roll running so that the facilities are profitable, this sort of balancing reservation is absolutely fantastic. But the other thing is the profitability of the farms. Since this last round of food billing, I have received really terrible messages from large dairy farms, which have invested in new barns and new equipment and machines, in what situation their farms are in. We need to wake up in this house a little bit, and in those central shops too, what should be done about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u33	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u34	Mr President! There has already been a very good and wide-ranging debate on this, and it is of course obvious that this is just one of the measures that will help in this situation of agricultural profitability and, above all, encourage investment, but it is an important piece. Perhaps the point of view that may have already been made in the sideline, but which is perhaps not quite clear from the point of view that agriculture is a very capital-intensive sector. And, of course, in a sector where the results are very small in relation to the capital committed, investment is not very easy, and if it can be helped by such a solution of the type of equalisation reserve system that is now being proposed, then it certainly makes sense in terms of the whole. I think we should look at this question of time and also this question of limit values, but this is something that we can move forward with. This is a very step in the right direction, and I am sure it will help significantly in some cases when the big investments are planned and thought about because they are scheduled and can then be prepared in advance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u35	Mr President! There's been a lot of talk here about municipal tax revenue. This in itself does not in any way affect the tax revenues of the municipalities. Indeed, they are amortised when the balancing reserve is made later, but I suppose every euro will eventually be taxed. After all, in a government proposal, the government promises to compensate municipalities for this loss of timing. It is clearly set out in this section on the financial impact of the proposal. So this question of timing and periodicity has also been taken into account in the government's proposal, and the municipalities are certainly not losing anything.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u36	Mr President! This has been a good debate. Of course, investment is also a question of profitability and financing for farmers. This is therefore a question of premature depreciation, which then comes in the form of reduced depreciation. In that sense, that very three years is a very short period of time for this, and that is why five years would be good, and we really need to have a debate in the tax section now. In this way, the proposal could be improved in this situation when we really need to encourage young farmers with increased risks to invest, because only by investing can we secure the innovations and development and profitability of Finnish clean food even a little better.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u37	Madam President! All government proposals must be adaptable to the prevailing situation in society at any given time, and if I have understood correctly, there is a general lack of investment in Finland. It's about something. Of course, trust, but especially in the agricultural sector, where Mr Satonen well described this, work and enterprise are very capital-intensive and that is why the level of investment is so important, this government proposal is actually a cure for two: that there is too little investment in Finland, and when we have to go through restructuring in agriculture in any case, which has been going on for 20 years, and agriculture has been doing a great deal of good, but nevertheless, raising the compensatory reserve to 25 000 is the right thing to do. But when we take into account the size and amounts of current investments, this 25,000 is actually too small. In other words, this criticism that it should be raised, I think it is perfectly justified, and it must have been five years before that. Both should be considered further. The higher they are and the longer the season, the more it facilitates investment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u38	Mr President! This proposal proposes to amend the Agricultural Income Tax Act to increase the maximum amount of the compensatory provision from the current 13500 to 25000. This will not reduce but shift agricultural taxation so that investment cuts can then be made greater in advance. This also applies to limited liability companies and, combined in this way, they act as a catalyst for the restructuring of agriculture. The Act is intended to enter into force as soon as possible and will be applied for the first time in 2020 for taxation. There has been talk here that the EU is interested in this and that it would be better for us to wait a little while for information on whether this is state aid. However, as has been mentioned here in the debate, this could well be interpreted as not being State aid and could therefore be introduced earlier than 2020. Then this period of use is three years at the moment in the proposal, and when the possibility of five years has also been mentioned, I think it should also be considered. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u39	Madam President! This law is good and part of the series of packages in which we are legally trying to make the agricultural situation easier in this crisis. All the actions that we can do to make the prices of inputs lower, the dismantling of standards and this type of product are important, as are those that will hopefully guide subsidies for active production in the next CAP period and, thirdly and most importantly, that our markets are fair. I would like to replace the billing, and as a background: According to PTT's latest survey, the cash flow from the dairy sector has remained at the level of 2012 and the cash flows from agriculture and imports have decreased. On the other hand, the cash flow from shops and restaurants has increased. Why does the one who does the most get the least?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u40	Madam President! There have been a number of very good speeches here. In fact, in my opinion, as no one else thinks, there is no supporting element, but in fact, if the reserve is not used, it will be revenued in the last year and the state and the municipalities will get theirs then. This is an excellent tool in this long tendon design when considering equipment, equipment, buildings and other investments. After all, the balance sheets of our farms have grown considerably recently: for example, in the construction and deployment of livestock buildings alone, there is talk of an investment of EUR 1 million, let alone in the related equipment. They are usually equipment and machines around tens of thousands of euros. It is an excellent thing that this is the idea now to raise the ceiling to EUR 25000, but I personally would be leaving this ceiling in euro out, and then I would be with you to look at this five-year period, because that three-year period will come very quickly, however, in large investments. Indeed, this will hopefully improve the planning of young farmers and will then offset these costs for the various years, when there are weaker and better years, so that we can look at it and then prepare for bigger investments. And one more thing is that I mentioned earlier that these uneconomic solutions would not have to be made with taxation at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u41	President! After all, what this government proposal is about is the ability of agriculture to invest. This government proposal is a good one. In fact, it concerns some 4,800 farms that are able to use this government proposal to their advantage. Finland has about 50,000 active facilities with a clean income of 21000. Then this compensation max can make about 2,800 spaces, with a clean income of about 100,000. Well, the question now is why should we really deal with the sequence, why it should be changed from three to five years. It is precisely because, with the change in this episode, this government proposal would apply to all 107,000 farms. This would therefore benefit all 107,000 farms, while at the moment, in line with this proposal, it would only target around 5,000 farms which would benefit most from it. Overall, this good government proposal is a large part of the government's agricultural profitability packages. One more is missing, and that is a fair income distribution law. We have proposed it and the Left Alliance and the KD supported it in the budget vote before Christmas. One huge question in terms of the profitability of agriculture will be how to bring about the EU's common agricultural policy and its reform, how it will be, how agricultural subsidies will be distributed between 2021 and 27. According to the preliminary information that has come from there, on the other hand, it is sometimes said that countries themselves would gain more power than their own national decision-making powers, that is good, but it has also come to be reproached that there is still a very complex mechanism for allocating these EU agricultural subsidies. Then, too, Finland’s net contribution may very likely increase, on the other hand, the yield has been predicted to deteriorate by about 60 million. But here is the challenge of agriculture. This government proposal is a good one, and if only this Article 10a(2) is amended a little bit further and this periodicity is increased to five years — the proposal has already been discussed in that Chamber — this proposal would be further developed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u42	Madam President! Mr Vähämäki, you have just described the importance of this episode extremely well and precisely the way in which this would also be more equal to more places. This must, of course, now be considered and assessed in committee, in the section debate, as to whether it can be changed. The representative, Pirttilahti, also pointed out that there is no fear of any kind of taxation going into the night of oblivion, because if the equalisation reserve has not been dismantled, it will be paid in the last year of the period, and then it will come under the company's tax. So these concerns are completely pointless. But I would like to point out here that, despite this fear of the EU, it would be important to bring that implementation into force as quickly as possible, because one of the elements with which we secure the production of domestic clean food is that the investments in the plan can be prepared for, this opportunity for income compensation, the opportunity to prepare for the investment year and, in that respect, to encourage those new entrepreneurs, young expansioners, and also, as Mrs Vähämäki has pointed out, this equality, an opportunity for more and more. These investments are of different sizes, and the maximum amount of compensatory reserves are not aimed at any terribly large number of farms, even if they are amortised for longer. But these investments are always mapped out to the size of the farm and fit for themselves, and then it will also give it the maximum benefit to the entrepreneur, the replacement. And above all, it is precisely because we can answer the question of whether our future generations will have domestic food available that will also be assisted by this legislative work for the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u43	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u44	Mr President! I object to the proposal to reject legislative proposals. If this proposal is implemented, it should significantly increase both heating and transport costs in our country. On the contrary, people in Peru think that living and traffic are already paying too much in Finland. At least the additional costs cannot be accepted when, on the contrary, the costs should be reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u45	Mr President! I propose that the three statements relating to objection 1 be adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u46	Mr President! At first reading of the law, there was already a wide-ranging debate on the content of the law and on the subject of biofuels and transport emission reductions in general, and these statements under protest 1 were also presented, so I support Mr Ihalainen's protest 1, which deals with the revision of the obligation to mix during the period of validity of the law and the development of the obligation to develop synthetic fuels in the light of technological developments and the development of definitions, as well as the third statement on aid for the renovation of oil boilers on social grounds.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u47	Mr President! The Finnish People’s Parliament Group has been somewhat critical of the presentations now made. Unfortunately, as Mr Mäkelä pointed out earlier, this change will have an impact on the rise in fuel prices and the rise in the price of transport and on the competitiveness of industry and businesses. In addition, the reform also harms agriculture and Finns living in oil-fired houses. Otherwise, we will see that the government's proposal is premature because the RED II proposal has not yet been finalised and it is quite certain that there will be a need to amend national legislation in any case. Mr President! On the basis of the arguments put forward in the objection, I support the representative. A motion of rejection made by Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u48	Madam President! Once again, at second reading, there is an excellent government proposal which would enable us to achieve the distribution obligations of 2030 with regard to the biofuel distribution obligation. In other words, it will be raised to 30% and then to 10% in heating fuels and machinery. Indeed, one aspect of this is that oil-heating economies come into this category, and it sees that it is no longer worth using liquid second-generation or first-generation biofuels, but rather seeking other heating solutions for them, such as geothermal heating or the associated or the use of combustible energy. To this end, the report also contains a proposal from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy that energy compensation subsidies and fund schemes for low incomes should be evaluated. In this respect, the distribution obligations are seen as a very effective and rapid way of achieving the emission reduction obligation, and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs agrees with the basic idea that ambitious biofuels obligations can create incentives for the development, manufacture or investment of biofuels. After all, this system has already created great opportunities for our state-owned company Neste, among other things, to start processing different types of biofuels, and we have now received several other companies in Finland. Biofuels base is forest-based or waste-based. We also had a debate in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the need to include new synthetic fuels. At the time of the RED II decision, that is to say the new listed biofuels in 2021, it is important that the synthetic fuels that have been developed or are being developed are also included. I see that this future distribution obligation will allow us to have a long life ahead of us in the case of internal combustion vehicles and technology. When we look at these second generation biofuels and also look at the synthetics, this will give a long life to our internal combustion engines, and it will also give us a great opportunity to use fossil-free fuels.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u49	Madam President! This obligation to distribute biofuels is an important part of our reduction in emissions on the transport side, and as everyone in this Chamber will certainly know, especially in transport, this will be a challenging task. We must introduce all the measures, and the distribution obligation is one of them. As has been heard in this very recent speech, we also need to involve these new synthetic substances so that we really have this whole palette and all the possibilities in the options. We must not leave these different technologies untapped. The Finnish car fleet is undergoing a very slow renewal, which is why this obligation to distribute biofuels is also important for Finland. I would see it as important that during the next term of government a real investment be made in increasing the use of biogas in such a way that it would be possible for us who live in different parts of Finland. It requires investment in biogas plants and then these refuelling stations across Finland, so that the biogas car can be driven. The issue of electrification is quite clear. That too is coming to the side of transport, but with regard to the rapid reduction of emissions, it is important that this distribution obligation law is now moving forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u50	Madam President! This government proposal, which is now at second reading — and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has produced a very good report on it — seems to me to be one of the most important environmental laws of this period. The debate on what kind of cars are being driven in this country at the moment and whether we should just go immediately to electric cars: the idea is quite absurd that the existing fleet of cars should be radically changed. The line chosen by the government by adding bio-division to transport fuels is quite right and very well-founded. Think, ladies and gentlemen, of the fact that, for example, five-year-old European diesel passenger cars, which consume less than five litres per 100 km, are currently on Finnish roads. It is true that even when you drive a car, you do not have a European preparation, which makes it easy for you to get under five liters of 100 kilometres in summer time. Adding this biodivision to diesel now is hard to imagine where the more environmentally friendly car would be. If you go out and make fancy electric cars, then you use a huge amount of natural resources to make that car, and then if I buy and make an electric car with coal electricity, with coal only under pressure, then nature sings hosanna on the day that such a poil is made. So the line chosen by Finland here is the right one. We import more biodivision into transport fuels all the time, and that biodivision is of Finnish origin. This is a very wise way. Then, at the same time, we can take advantage of the existing fleets of these people, so that when some retired couple in that Ilomants drive to the store with an old car, an old Toyota Corolla, which consumes very little fuel, and it has 30 percent bio-division already in 2029, you will certainly not find a more environmentally friendly car in this country than that car is. People are sure to keep their cars in shape, and they know how to fix them. Then there is this electric car blizzard that supposedly replaces these banned internal combustion engines, as the demos have suggested. Yes, there are all kinds of performances, but thinking is a little short on that one too. Just think of the situation if we were to ban these internal combustion engines: what would we do with the machinery? As a world of thought, it's absolutely terrifying. After all, our machines all use 99.9% diesel engines : excavators, forestry machines, trucks and mines. This is therefore an extremely good path which Finland has chosen, and this path must continue. Finally, Mr President, I would also like to see sense in this debate on the environment that, as in the case of agriculture referred to above, someone should start thinking with the Finnish brain. In this country, we ourselves have the opportunity to manage nature and these bio-divisions and other good things so that we Finns benefit. If we go out here and have these hard foreign electric cars roll over, we'll pay a lot of money out of this country and we'll get almost nothing out of it, except for the fact that coal-fired electricity.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u51	Let's stick to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u52	Mr President! To that extent, I would like to comment on these recent speeches, mainly those from the centre, that it is, of course, good and right that if we produce biofuels as a by-product or otherwise produce them it will be used. There's nothing wrong with that. But these speeches have not taken account of the fact that this entails costs and an increase in the price of fuel, which this government's proposal recognises, in fact, in our party's view even diminishes the increase in costs. Why is this cost side not raised at all in the speeches?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u53	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen's speech was also keen to speak on this subject when, however, I have taken an interest in it and looked into it. However, it is true that electric mobility, the electric mobility of cars, is today. It is environmentally friendly, for example, according to the latest research in Technology World, which specifically examined the state of Finnish energy production at the moment, and is heading in a more environmentally-friendly direction in the future. At the moment, when comparing, for example, a hybrid car and then a regular diesel car or a petrol car, after three years, that hybrid car is better for the environment than an internal combustion engine with no electric assistance. Then there's these machines and everything else. We already have a new domestic innovation in both forestry cars, lorries and land transport vehicles, which has now been sold for less than two years, which is a hybrid car. It produces more than 900 horsepower in addition to the normal 650 horsepower engine, an electric motor that turns so that you can get out of every place, and its fuel consumption is much lower. In other words, I would introduce these electrical innovations as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u54	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Suutari, for your excellent speech. The thing is, we all know at the moment that every single car factory in the world, the biggest car producers, scientists... I know that in the United States, for example, many university research institutes there at the University of Massachusetts, MIT, are carrying out huge research specifically to develop this electric car technology. In the same way, all research institutes, car factories, are making huge investments. There will be research into improving the profitability of electric cars, improving battery technology and so on. So that's where the technique comes in for sure. There is no need for the Finnish state to jump and no euro of money to push extra money into it, there is no need to do it. Let's wait in peace, produce our own bio-based fuels for transport, let people drive those old Corollas and diesel-Golfs. They're really good cars. If even 4 litres of diesel is eating in the summer weather, I dare say — if anyone hears me in those scientific circles, I hope to send me an e-mail to calculate why this 4 liter car would be the worst option in this climate policy — that it is very good for Finland and for the world at the moment that we use those old machines peacefully. The first models of electric cars, any new car model, always have baby defects, but when we go ten years ahead — even this bill now on the table has a point of aim of 2029, it has ten years — it is probably when this law becomes obsolete, i.e. the last day of December 2029, we already have such equipment, electric cars, in this country, which are slowly going to displace internal combustion engines, and that is a healthy development. You don't go in there for the government to bulldoze. The car industry sees a great deal of enthusiasm in this regard, and huge amounts of money are invested in research and product development. For example, today there are hybrids on the market with an internal combustion engine, a petrol engine, and then the extra electricity generated is collected into batteries, and they can then, for example, reduce the consumption of petrol well even in urban traffic. This is the future, but I don't think it's worth panicking about. This government proposal, which is now adopted on the basis of the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, is the right way to go, this is something that Finland must support.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u55	Madam President! Indeed, electrical technology comes into engines, but it is still thought that in 20 years' time, the car acquired this year will still be in service and still available and for how long we can drive it. I personally see that these second-generation biofuels and synthetic fuels are still an opportunity for more long-term use of these internal combustion engines. But it is quite true that electricity comes to the side and electricity is probably good in many people. For example, when it comes to these two-wheeled, bicycles or motorcycles: we just went to the motorbike fair to see that this electrification is probably quite easy to do in urban traffic, but with regard to long distances and cold conditions in this time period, it may not be entirely in the price range where a normal family could buy such an electric device. Mr Mäkelä pointed out that this increase in the cost level has been assessed. The Committee on Transport has indeed considered this and the evolution of the price of biofuels and also the availability and uncertainties about it, and they must be looked at, that is quite true, but I would point out that at present most of the fuel price is tax. If these are considered, then the state must also consider for its part what the price of fossil fuel is and what the price of biofuels and their tax ratio are.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u56	Mr President! On this point, I agree with the previous speakers that it is worth waiting a while for the technical development of the electric car. It is not quite ready for these conditions, what we have here in Finland. Nor do I think that the state should favour any particular technology with its support policy or sanctions, but that society should be as technologically neutral as possible. However, I would like to point out that, in the end, what this possible biofuel that is being produced in the country should be used for. Will it be used as point consumption in individual cars, vehicles, or would it be more efficient if it were used, for example, for the production of electricity or heat in power plants? After all, we have a complete electricity grid through which its electricity can be transmitted, and our country is far from self-sufficient in energy at the moment, which means that, in any case, domestic energy production needs to be increased for us not to be dependent on Russian imported electricity at frost. So that's where they put the biofuel or in the cars? But there is no limit.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u57	Mr President! I would also like to comment on the fact that electric cars are not ready yet. Well, I must say that when it comes to a full electric car, there are certainly challenges not only in the short circuit engine but also elsewhere. But, for example, 100 years ago the share of electric cars was higher than that of positive-ignition cars. The biggest competitor of an electric car was a steam car at the time. If you look at the maintenance and failure of the short circuit engine, they are, you might say, far less dependent on maintenance than, for example, positive engines. The short-circuit engine does not have a maintenance program. For example, in a hybrid car, only that positive motor and so forth is maintained. In other words, technology is developing in the right direction, and I am at least in favour of the state taking a positive stance on what will theoretically be the least burdensome option for the environment in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u58	Madam President! To Mr Mäkelä: We are dealing with transport distribution obligations, and I personally see that liquid fuels, gaseous fuels and related fuels, including future methanol or ammonia-based fuels, are possible. Well, we can also use solids, but then let's go to this carbon monoxide car technology. So I see that the more crude technology and biofuels can be used in heating plants and used for liquid and high-processing biofuels in transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u59	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 37/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u60	Mr President! This report by the Committee on Transport and Communications contains a rare fact that the committee is proposing to reject a number of legislative proposals in the government proposal. So I saw unanimously even by the representatives of the government. This is a question of taxis and taxi meters, and these changes are not now being taken forward. This, of course, enabled the report to be taken forward unanimously. I believe that there would also have been objections to the tax measure if it had been taken forward as such. It is, of course, to be welcomed that half-baked legislative proposals are not being promoted. Here, though, it would have been wise to do so, even with regard to the original taxi reform. As we can see here, there is no good in this taxi reform. The former system was not broken, it was started to be repaired, and now we can fix a system that is really broken. This government will hardly do anything about it, but to the next government I would suggest that this taxi reform be seriously considered or even withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u61	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 30/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u62	Madam President! Under consideration, we have a law on electronic invoicing for contracting entities and traders. The law is based on a European directive, which is being implemented nationally here. Contracting entities are obliged to accept and process electronic invoices for contracts covered by procurement law. However, the new law would not apply if the use of the bill could reveal confidential information or jeopardise the central security interests of the State. The proposed law aims to promote the digitisation of public procurement and to accelerate the electrification of economic governance, including in the private sector, by creating an encouraging legal framework for this. Of course, there have been some shortcomings. In the past, for example, there have been shortcomings in the content of information and the incompatibility of the system, which this law is also trying to improve. The effects of the law. We had discussions in committee and in an expert consultation on the possibilities for small operators to take part in these procurement competitions. The committee noted and the study showed that there are increasingly services to be provided and scaled up to micro-enterprises on the market, so the committee's position in favour of regulation has also contributed to the perception that the electrification of processes should also bring the greatest efficiency gains in relation to small businesses and operators, whose administration does not have easily scalable benefits, e.g. in the outsourcing of paper invoices. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy attaches great importance to monitoring the impact of the new regulation and, on the basis of these findings, assessing whether the scope or the degree of compulsoryity should be changed in line with what is now being proposed. In other words, we also took into account this concern of small businesses, which was strongly mentioned in the committee, but we are indeed saying that services are available and that this will not prevent small businesses from participating in public procurement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u63	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 19/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u64	Mr President! This report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is unanimous. The subject of the report, namely aid to clean up contaminated land, is a reminder of how expensive it can be to fail to protect the environment, because, as is the case with contaminated land, there is often a costly fall afterwards. In Finland, there are estimated to be more than 23,000 areas where soil has been found or where soil has been suspected of being contaminated. There are so many harmful substances in their soil that areas can cause harm to health and, for example, to groundwater. Nearly 4,900 of them have already been renovated, but more than three-quarters of the initial amount still remains unrefurbished. The main reason for this government bill is that the current aid system does not exactly meet the requirements of state aid law or the Constitution. Assistance for the rehabilitation of these land has mainly been provided by the Oil Protection Fund and the State waste management system. Of course, the oil fund is primarily for the rehabilitation of oil-polluted areas, such as former fuel distribution stations. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection notes that the government's proposal is necessary and desirable, but that this does not in itself solve this problem because there is no prospect of a change in the level of appropriations. The committee proposes a few amendments to the text of the government's proposal, the most significant of which will correct the matter which may have been overlooked in the preparation of the draft law, that if the law, as proposed by the government, was adopted, the municipalities would no longer be able to receive aid for the rehabilitation of old landfills where the municipality itself is responsible for the pollution of the area. However, given that the legislation at the time has been complied with, the committee believes that it would not be reasonable to deprive the municipalities of the possibility of state aid for the rehabilitation of the landfill area, and the committee is proposing to clarify this matter in a section.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u65	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-05-ps-153.u66	Madam President! The purpose of the bill is to improve the liquidity of farms in a situation where the agricultural environment has deteriorated due to exceptional weather conditions and financial burdens. Indeed, we have two very bad harvest years behind us, and it is an excellent thing that the government has gone out to take a hold on how to finance farms with a weakened economic situation. I also understand from this point of view of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy that we have tightened up the issue of risk finance for local banks and the banking sector in general and that it may be more difficult to obtain funding from them if things are not right. It is an excellent thing for the State to be involved at this stage in supporting these companies. This is a proposal that this should be implemented before spring 2019. I fully agree that we should speed up the entry into force of this law, so that we can make this funding available on that field. Moreover, it was excellent that this came not only to support the agricultural sector but also to support fur production, because it was equally affected financially by these crop damage.
