ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 45 minutes shall be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u2	Mr President! The core of Finland's immigration policy is that Finland is safe and at the same time open, international, attractive, especially when it comes to changing competence and factors to Finland. What we are dealing with here today is an important signal. Of course, we do not know what will happen between Britain, Britain and the European Union in the next month, but there is a great risk that, on the basis of the current decisions, the United Kingdom will leave the European Union without a divorce agreement and that the difference will take place in just over a month's time, 29. The President For this reason, the government has prepared a bill for Parliament, which exceptionally extends the right of British nationals legally residing in Finland to work, live, study and also enjoy the benefits currently offered by the Finnish social security system for an EU citizen of just over a year and a half, i.e. until the end of 2020, regardless of whether the UK is different from the Union at the end of March or not. It is essential that the British have registered in Finland with regard to their EU citizen’s right of residence by that withdrawal date. Here too, Mr President, I am taking the opportunity to send a message to all British citizens living in Finland: remember to register, because only registered persons will have the opportunity to continue without a residence permit process and work in Finland. The possibility offered by this law thus guarantees British residents the right of residence, i.e. living, working, entrepreneurship, studying, continuing family life without interruption after a possible divorce date. This is of course important above all for these approximately five thousand citizens of the United Kingdom, but it is also important for Finland. This is important for our business, where many of these five thousand Britons are working in key tasks, and on the other hand this is particularly important for the message that Finland sends to Great Britain and the international community on how we view people's stay in the context of work, especially in such a situation – whether we are prepared to build solutions that can support people's lives in Finland or not. It is also possible for British family members who have registered their right of residence to come to Finland and apply for a residence card even after the divorce date. If, on the other hand, the separation agreement were to enter into force between the Union and the United Kingdom or if the United Nations were to remain a member of the Union, the law would naturally become unnecessary, and this possibility has also been taken into account in the adoption of the law. The British and their family members within the scope of the law would meet the legal residence requirement of social security legislation when the law came into force and could therefore also register as jobseekers. The right of residence includes the right to work, the right to pursue a business and the social security rights attached to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u3	Let us take a few comments.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u4	Madam President! This Brexit is, in itself, an absurdly bad idea and a bad idea for Finland as well. Of course, we would like Britain to remain a member of the European Union, but it is understandable that, if it does in any way now, which we do not yet know, then there will be preparatory legislation and then the corresponding interests of the Finns in Britain will be safeguarded. In this sense, of course, this proposal must be supported, but it must be borne in mind that this project itself, this Brexit project, makes no sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u5	Mr President! Many people have dreamed of the European Union breaking up and leaving the European Union and have been admiring what good it could mean to the citizens. We are now seeing very concretely in the case of Great Britain, in what way we are mutually dependent in a good sense in the European Union, so that we can work, study, live a normal life in another Member State of the European Union too, and when this right is about to be lost, what a tragedy it is for families and in this case there would be 5000 Britons in Finland if there were no such bill. I very much agree with Mr Salolainen that we are losing the very best aspects of integration, the free movement of citizens, and it is important that this legislative project should respond to this, but I hope that either the Brexi agreement will come about or the Brexit will not happen at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u6	Madam President! I appreciate Mr. Salolainen's frankness. You don't have to guess what he thinks, the position comes clearly. We visited Britain in May 2016 with a representative from Salolainen and some other representatives — the British Friendship Group — before this vote, and it was remarkable that the chairman of their Committee on Foreign Affairs was in favour of leaving. That's when you realized you might be leaving, and now we're here. Nor is it a secret that I am one degree more critical than Mr Salolainen is. In that sense, of course, I would stress that the will of the country, Britain, the people and more than 17 million voters in the referendum must be respected, as Mr May has also demonstrated. On the other hand, I must say as Foreign Minister Soini has said that this is a national defeat for Finland. We are losing an important partner in the EU, which, for example, has been very much in line with us in the field of defence cooperation, as in the area of free trade, for example. And it does raise the question of the future of the United Kingdom, which we are also talking about in this proposal. What is Scotland’s solution after such a situation, for example, remains to be considered. But it is great that these approximately 5,000 British citizens who are in Finland can continue their stay in Finland without fear. It's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u7	Madam President! Above all, on this issue of Brexit: Of course, the British themselves decide what to do as a sovereign, independent, nation, but I suppose it is appropriate to say that this is not in Finland's interest at all. Britain has been a good partner to Finland in the EU, we have had similar objectives, but now that we are in Europe in this difficult situation, I think it is a very wise thing for the government to do this, that British rights in Finland are safeguarded and that this free movement is maintained. It's in our best interest. And I agree with the previous speakers here that, hopefully, the position of Finns living in Britain can also be maintained by good diplomacy. Of course, it would be nice to hear from government representatives — I do not know whether the Minister of the Interior has any information about it or who is present — how this will be done. I myself know from my own acquaintance that there are people who have sought to become British citizens to cope with this situation. But good reaction from the government and the right line.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u8	Madam President! Of course, it is true that it is not in the interests of Finland to resign one of the EU's critical members, but nevertheless I disagree with Mr Salolainen in saying that the decision to resign in Britain is, however, an indication of the functioning of democracy which has taken place in Britain. In that sense, we must respect the outcome of the vote and also take note of this, and the criticism that has come through Britain about the functioning of the EU must also be taken seriously in Finland. Unfortunately, Finland has this kind of bowing down towards the EU. We do not dare here to criticise and demand more autonomy and decision-making on matters that are important to us. In that sense, I do not agree with Mr Salolainen. The difference in Britain is perfectly understandable when you look at what has happened to them, for example, through immigration, the wave of low-employment and many other relationships, and
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u9	Mr President! In my view, there is a paradox with Brexit that, in the vote, the voters were probably against the view of the elite, and the end result is that this is where the ordinary citizen suffers the most. It is suffering from that worker in the north who loses his own job when the car factories are relocated. It is suffering the British in other EU countries who are now being helped by Finland, which is of course important and good that we do what we can. But there are many difficulties, not least for those who live in Spain, for example, or for other countries where there are so many British in general. In other words, this is not the end result of what has been sought. But this, on the other hand, is a very good lesson for all of us as a result. It is quite like Alexander Stubb said that you can leave the Internet, but it makes no sense, and this is exactly the same.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u10	Mr President! That is where Mr Niikko said that democracy works well here. I disagree. The Brits now only have bad options. They will not be able to choose any of them, nor will there be a majority behind any of them, so perhaps it will tell us what the political problems are in Europe at the moment. Fortunately, decisions can be made in Finland. One of the reasons for the British referendums is certainly — and there may be many opinions — that the British have always been told a little misinformation about the European Union. I remember that when I was working there too, there was also a very incorrect reference to the management of the EU economy, and the people did not necessarily know what the right alternatives were in this reality. This law is good. There, too, thousands of British workers are currently working there in the European Union. Apparently, they'll continue to work there. I would like to ask the Minister: what will happen to these British citizens — who, by the way, today are applying for Luxembourg citizenship to compete — if Britain no longer pays anything to the EU?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u11	Mr President! In Britain, of course, democracy itself has worked when it has been voted on. But at the moment the situation is that we do not know what the outcome of democracy in Britain is in this matter — this is something that Mr Niiko should be aware of. In itself, deciding what happens to the British in Finland after Brexit happens is a good thing, and it is a good thing that the position of Finns who are currently in Britain and after Brexit are there is also safeguarded. So, in a way, you have to agree, as now is probably meant to be. But I wonder, Mr President, why, at this point in time, are we doing this law when the British Brexis are not ready? We do as in advance laws for things that have not yet happened.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u12	Mr President! There are now thousands of people in Finland and Great Britain who wonder what their future is. It is good that this presentation creates clarity and security for the British people living in Finland for their future. Brexit is a particularly difficult place for British residents living abroad and for EU citizens living in Britain. This law extends to the end of 2020, and I would like to ask the ministers: What is the fate of the British people living in Finland after 2020? Is there a lot of citizenship applications pending at the moment? Mr President! The difficulty of Brexit and the value of free movement are being clarified, particularly through the difficulty of the Northern Ireland border issue, and the question of the Northern Ireland border is one of the reasons why this agreement is now in trouble. It reminds me that, under the Brexit referendum, it was not possible to see all the problems it still poses, particularly with regard to freedom of movement and the Irish border.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u13	Madam President! It is very good that this Brexit situation is now being prepared in such a way that the smooth everyday life of ordinary citizens in particular, the smooth daily life of these 5000 Brits, is being ensured here in Finland. They are working here, studying, perhaps entering the country as spouses, and it is important that, just before we even know what will happen here in the end, we try to deal with these matters as well as possible. In the large committee, we have also discussed how, in the difficult situation of Brexit, for example, transport connections and similar issues can be handled, and we must be prepared for these things in advance. It seems that the Finnish Presidency will be at its worst — or at its best, how you want to look at it — with very challenging practical issues to deal with, and in that sense it is good that we ourselves are prepared for these situations. Perhaps I would say to Mr Niiko that when the EU is in this kind of decision-making
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u14	One minute is one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u15	Madam President! The British Brexit gap is regrettable, it is regrettable for the EU as a whole, and I believe that it will ultimately also be detrimental to Great Britain and the security of the EU and, therefore, Finland. It is a good thing that Mr Mykkänen is now being led in advance with this legislation in mind. I do wonder when I heard from the Socialist Group that legislation would be introduced when the Brexis had already been implemented. Of course, this legislation must be ready, my dear Social Democrats, if this separation takes place. This applies therefore to 5000 British citizens and their housing, studies and work in Finland. It is also possible after a possible break-up of Brexit. The Brexit without a deal seems even more likely. What its effects are, it is still a completely open matter and it is hoped that even in Britain, reason will prevail.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u16	Mr President! Mr Tolppanen, we do have legislation for the war, although we have not yet had a war, thank God. This government proposal, which concerns the possibility for British citizens, i.e. those who have registered here, to move on with their lives here, as has been the case up to now, is very good and worthy of support. Perhaps the best part of this performance is that it makes this Brexit as easy as possible. The fact that these British people here have little or no change compared to what it has been before in Finland proves to them and to all of us that there can be no life without Europe. This may even encourage the EU and its Member States in the future to develop themselves more and more towards cooperation between independent nation states, away from the federal state that is now in power.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u17	Madam President! It has to be said that the Brexit ball is in Britain itself, and the rest of us are doing what we can to minimise the damage, because this Brexit, no matter what kind of agreement it is, can meet the benefits, the benefits that EU membership can bring, that is clear. And it is quite appropriate that the Finnish Government has put forward a bill to safeguard the rights of British citizens living in Finland, because the citizens are not responsible for this mess, and we safeguard the rights of British citizens in Finland. If necessary, we will do so unilaterally and in advance in the event of this no deal and, of course, we will assume that we will then receive mutual treatment for Finns living in Britain, but we cannot yet know about that. But it is time for the gallows to say that this is some sort of victory, evidence of democracy, or that it opens up the possibility for other EU countries. Yes, this is a serious lesson about not trying this at home. In Britain, there is a strange spirit of revolution.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u18	Madam President! A wise man learns from his mistakes, a true wise man from the mistakes of others. I, too, see as Mr Tuppurainen, that this Brexit is not a victory for democracy, but rather a victory for images and populist politics. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u19	Madam President! I myself was an election observer at the time of the Midsummer in London in 2016 when this referendum took place. Certainly the result of the vote itself was based on honest elections, but there was a lot of misleading and even untruthful information going on, and I believe that many people there also regret the way in which they voted. It is good that we are now on the move and that the government has brought this proposal. If the Brexis take place hard, we will certainly have many more times in this Chamber, and the next Parliament will also, from a point of view, deal with this matter. After all, when Mr Mykkänen is here, one important issue is cooperation on internal security issues such as police and intelligence cooperation, where Britain has played a very important role in the European Union,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u20	Mr President! Yes, at a time when Mr Salolainen quite well opened this debate with those words that this Brexit as such makes no sense, it is very easy for a common sense to come to this same conclusion. That's the way it is, and here we go. There have been many wise speeches here. I would also like to stress to the Minister that of course it is also very important to see how the Finns who are there in Britain will fare in the future. An extremely important question in itself. In my view, Mr Satonen made quite clear the point that, ultimately, this solution is suffering from an ordinary citizen. He described how the ordinary citizen in Britain suffers from it, and yes, I would say that this Brexit, no matter what happens, whether hard or soft, will have very bad consequences for the Finnish economy too, for example, and the Finnish just plain person will suffer a great deal from it. The economic outlook, which can result from this, is frightening at its very worst, and that is why, of course, we are all following what is happening there. We hope in some way that reason will prevail. However, as such, I would like to share Mr Salolainen's view that this does not make any sense as it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u21	Mr President! Somehow when you listened to these interludes, when the representatives of the People's Republic of Finland expressed their views that this was the will of the people and this is also a sign of awakening the EU, and when it came to this sort of thing, that senseless talk, let's think about it now. At the same time, we are talking here about the need to learn lessons. How do we learn if we do not then have a discussion about what was behind it, how can we do things differently? One important thing has been freedom of movement, which disturbs people in the fact that people are moving around in a bucket of Europe, let us be quite frank about who is doing what. This does not just apply to the fact that some people come to work. This has been one of the things in the background. In Finland, we should change this culture in such a way that we should talk about this too now and not immediately say that it is absurd. Let's disagree and discuss and develop. It's not an absurd thing to say right away if you disagree with something.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u22	Let us take a few more comments, then the Minister will reply, and then let us go on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u23	Mr President! Thank you for mentioning this name. It is difficult to find good things in Britain's EU separation. Britain is an island. Now it is also mentally after this Brexit has come true. Britain isolates itself, both in terms of labour, trade, militaryly and, above all, in terms of effectiveness, which is their role in the future EU. It is difficult to share the joy that some here feel of Britain’s resignation from the EU. Yes, I regard it as sad and loss-making as a whole for the Finnish people and the Finnish economy, and I would like to thank the Ministry for taking the lead here and preparing for the fact that the people, the British citizens who are here, can continue to be in Finland and feel that their affairs are being taken care of here as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u24	At this stage, let us take the Minister's reply, that is to say now, because he is cut off from time to time, and then let us continue with a few more replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u25	Mr President! Thank you for a good conversation. I am pleased that Parliament also seems to have a great deal of sympathy for this government's concern about the situation of these 5000 British citizens and the desire to allow their stay to continue seamlessly here. Some questions: This was understood by several representatives — Kurvinen, Salolainen, Viitanen, and many others — who raised the issue of the position of Finns in the UK while living there. The British Government itself has promised that under the conditions of the Hard Brexit, residence rights will also be guaranteed, but here we are always having discussions with the British authorities that we want to see in black and white. In this context: when Mr Tolppanen asked why we are already adopting the law here, even though the separation is not clear, it is natural that this does not happen in a day, and the separation is done again overnight, when it is very important that British citizens are always here legally. It is therefore also important for the British Government to be able to act in time to guarantee the rights of EU citizens. I am also using this situation to signal, through representatives, that, just as well, Finns who live in Great Britain should now register the right of residence of an EU citizen with the British immigration authorities, because there too the people who have registered will be covered by these protective measures. Mr Sarkkinen asked a good question about what will happen from 2021 onwards. Of course, we hope that by then we will find a civilised agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom which will allow smooth mobility between the British and the EU countries to succeed. If necessary, of course, Parliament will have to look at the possibility, even bilaterally, for British citizens to organise this matter. It is clear, however, within the framework of this law that a permanent derogation specifically for British nationals in relation to other third-country nationals is a very fundamental and constitutional issue in Finland, when we did not go out to open the door in the context of this proposal when, in a really good month, it is necessary to bring this law into force. You also asked whether there has been an increase in the number of British citizens applying for citizenship in Finland. There has been no major change in this in recent months. 2016 applied for 99 persons, 2017 applied for 201 persons, last year about 230 persons and in January of this year only over ten persons. But surely these applications — and well, if there are Britons permanently established in Finland — will also be visible if they meet the conditions for citizenship. As Mr Räsänen said, of course, Britain is an absolutely essential partner for us, one of the most essential partners between internal security, police and intelligence cooperation. Last Thursday, I had discussions with Commissioner King on the European Union's side. Of course, he too, as a British citizen, is very concerned about how to deal with this. On the other hand, our chief of staff, for example, was in London just recently talking to the police authorities. I believe that good will is enough for us in this respect, but it is essential that, in the area of security, the British strong security apparatus will continue to be part of Europe and we will also be part of British security. You can't tear that geographical union apart with a pen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u26	Four replies will be made and then on the list of speakers. These four persons are representatives of Mika Kari, Niikko, Wallinheimo, Salolainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u27	Madam President! This is a very necessary bill, and it is good that it is now being submitted to Parliament. We need time to prepare for Brexit and thank the Minister for his good answers. There will be a good question now, although unfortunately the Minister has no opportunity to answer it, but at least in the timebooks I would like to leave this. I would also like to refer here to Mr Estilä's excellent speech on populism which, in politics, is causing problems of this kind which are now being sought not only in the British Parliament but also in other European parliaments. Let us be careful not to get into a similar situation or become victimized by this debate, which is also being held in Finland from the edge to the edge. Great Britain has an important role to play in defence cooperation and internal security cooperation, and I would have asked the Minister — and I am going to ask the question on that side of the diner: what is the Government's view on whether we will build a security community with Great Britain only through bilateral agreements with countries in the future, or whether we will create a common system of agreements with Great Britain in relation to defence cooperation and internal security?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u28	Madam President! Mr Eestilä and Mr Ala-Nissila and Mrs Tuppurainen argued, among other things, that because of populism and false knowledge, the UK voted in favour of the euroregime. Is it not rather the case that national identity there has raised its head because the European Union has failed in many things — as we know very well here in the north? The banking crisis, the refugee crisis, has become a cheap worker crisis, and then, above all, a crisis of credibility has become a crisis of how things are done together in the European Union. If it is not up to the citizens themselves to decide even small things, then it is clear that people will then vote differently from what is expected. And for many of you politicians, it seems to come as a surprise over and over again that the people can vote so to speak wrongly. It is contempt for democracy that we are here to advise the 60 million more people in terms of population in terms of how they should vote. In that sense, I am surprised that in our own Parliament we are demeaning democracy in this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u29	Mr President! It is good that the government reacts in this way in advance, and I believe that this is the only sensible solution. A little question arises as to what kind of situation picture and information the British came up with in this answer — and this is actually what kind of hybrid influence took place there. Did the British get an honest picture of what this brex means or does not mean? I would therefore like more thought to be given to how this hybrid effect was achieved both at EU level and in Finland, and what lessons we can learn from this, because we too have an election coming up and there is an election coming in many other countries and a clear trend seems to be that the hybrid is being influenced by certain countries and that we want to shock the unity of the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u30	Madam President! Of course, the British have every right to make their own decisions at national level. It's none of our business. Nor have we tried to intervene, but we have only followed what has happened there. But we, as a Member of the EU, have the right to say that it is not in our national interests, and that is what we say quite clearly. It harms our economy, it damages the ability of Finnish students to operate in Britain and so on. So this is a perfectly clear matter: the British are doing their own business. Unfortunately, this is happening in a situation where Europe is being increasingly harassed by both Russia and the United States. The President of the United States does not have a very beautiful picture of the European Union. This is very important that we should now be as united as possible, inter alia, in terms of trade policy throughout the world, in the negotiations we need to be in, and the British departure will weaken our position.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u31	All right, then let's go to the list of speakers, and we have about ten minutes here when this was a time-limited point.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u32	Madam President! The Finnish Government deserves praise for its prompt action to minimise the adverse effects of the crisis threatening the United Kingdom and Europe as a whole. The proposal to safeguard the rights of citizens of a country that is leaving the European Union is also to be welcomed in substance. We have no reason to punish the British people living in Finland by making the legality of their stay uncertain. Of course, we expect reciprocity in the treatment of both Finnish and other EU citizens, but that is not the only nor the only decisive criterion. The status of the citizens of the United Kingdom living here must be guaranteed unilaterally, if necessary. Hardly many of them have wanted this absurdity of the EU separation. Even fewer of them have hoped for an uncontracted separation from chaos. Madam President! There is certainly a far-reaching consensus on the adoption of the proposal. This seemed to be the case even on the basis of this debate. I hope that we will also be able to jointly and unanimously assess what the future EU separation will mean. Even if the difference were to arise as agreed together, it would only be a matter of minimizing the damage. We have indeed been working on an agreement that hinders international trade and makes it difficult for people to move. At best, a good agreement and a good partnership is not as good as membership of the EU. Now, however, it seems that even this loss minimisation is not going to be achieved. Britain has the idea that greater chaos is somehow desirable. The worse, the better, the debate in the British Parliament seems to be. There's such a revolutionary spirit in the country that I don't think it's been there for centuries. The most important thing is to hit down the old world, no matter what the cost. Madam President! The United Kingdom is one of the strongest countries in Europe. It's known all over the world. Even after the breakup, it has competitiveness factors. It is able to take care of its own safety very far. We do not have these strengths in Finland. From the point of view of security policy, our position is very tight. We are not the great power of the economy. We need Europe, we need membership of the European Union. Let us hope that there will also be a consensus that will lead us to deeper cooperation with other EU countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u33	Irade fru talman! Brexit Bettyder Brexit. Bara det att ingen verkar veta vad det betyder annu. Det är oerhört tråkigt att Storbritannien lämnar den Europeiska unionen. Om Storbritannien ännu vill ändra sig och stanna kvar i EU eller kompa tillbaka i ett senare skde så ska dörren stå öppen för det. Det kostar inte Heller någonting att ge Storbritannien extratid om de vill ha mer tid att ännu fundera lite. Oavsett vad som heder med brexit vill jag att Finland och Storbritannien fortsätter vara så nära varandra som vi bara kan. Vi delar mycket, politiska intressen och history, vi har stort ekonomistt utbyte och vår flygtrafik är integrrad, och också det utrikes- och säkerhetska samarbet är mycket utvecklat. Vi har också många britter som bor i Finland och finländare som bor i Storbritannien, och som gjort det i valdigt många år — tiotals år — och som på många sätt är en självklar del av vårt lokala samälle. Därför är det rai lagförslaget viktigt, för oavsett vad som heder med brexit så har vi ett politiskt ansvar att it till att inte enskilda medborgare och fabillioner, britter ras och finländare i Storbritannieen hamnar llä ut bara för det att brexit betyder brexit.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u34	Mr President! First, a few comments on the issues raised in the debate: It was said that this Brexit — the ‘no’ votes won — had a background of concern about the increase in immigration. I'm sure it was, but what happened now? What has happened now is that more EU citizens have already moved out of Britain than they have moved in, but immigration has not decreased. The Africans and Asians have located its deficit. This is a good thing to be aware of: one cannot separate himself from this world, even though one might imagine it. The second point is that when we talk here — I think it was Mr Eerola — that now that we are making this difference as easy as possible for the British who live here, it shows that it would be as easy a solution to remain outside the EU as it were. That is not the case. Just as Mr Tuppurainen said, there cannot be the same benefits outside membership as Members do. I see it in the way that, now that we are doing a law that allows the rights to continue until the end of 2020, it enables the British residents of Finland to apply for Finnish citizenship and thus to ensure their rights here. So it's important. In the previous speech, Mr Löfström went through it very well, which is why it is important for Finland to continue to have a good relationship with Britain: above all, because of defence cooperation, of course, because of trade cooperation. Yesterday I visited a company such as Parkano Listehdas Oy, where Britain is by far the most important export country, and there were concerns about how it affects our employment. So these things are important and, of course, the smooth running of air traffic and many, many other things. Mr President! Finally, I would like to comment on this situation in the British Parliament when it was also possible to attend the British Conservatives' party meeting. When you listened in particular to the speeches made by these hard-earned Brexit supporters, you did get quite a bit of a feeling. They said that instead of the EU, Britain is now looking globally at the world and that a large part of global economic growth comes from outside the EU so that they can have new markets to replace the European market. It did occur to me that you could ask the Finnish textile industry and the footwear industry how easy it was to find the new markets in the world after the collapse of Soviet trade. So it's not exactly something you should talk to people about, but unfortunately, this is the situation. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, under the leadership of Jeremy Corbyn, the situation is not much better, that is to say, there is simply no political decision-making capacity, and it is currently a major problem for the citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u35	Mr President! The citizens' rights have already been well mentioned here, and I think it is important that the British in Finland and also the Finns in Britain, at this very uncertain moment, are guaranteed the rights that they can continue to work, to study. Here, too, you can see the advantages of what has been in the EU. It has been easy to come to another country, could have gone to Erasmus student exchange and so on. This becomes visible when problems arise. It is also good that the government is preparing for a hard Brexit. I think it makes sense for this legislation to be adopted right now. Then perhaps a few words about cooperation between Finland and Britain. The importance of our economic relationship with Britain has already been highlighted here. I say that unemployment will come on both sides of the Channel with this decision. There are British companies whose markets are losing and we are losing some of our markets in Britain. This Brexis is certainly not in the interests of the EU at the moment, nor is it in the interests of the British. There has been little talk of foreign policy here, but in development cooperation, Britain is one of those countries that have reached 0.7%, that is to say, do a lot of development cooperation. If we look at the Horn of Africa and North Africa for example, Britain is one of our most active partners in all development cooperation. It is very important that it has been able to operate within the EU and to coordinate its activities. It is a bad thing if this cooperation in the world now falls apart between the EU, Britain and us. Security issues have been raised very well here. If we are thinking about the defence of Europe as a whole and how it is developing today, then we need Britain. I'm glad they've been involved. Then, Mr President, two words. One of these British Parliaments is asking if something can be learned. I have not seen so much of the British Parliament's sittings before, but it reminds me that when we look at the rear-view mirror and talk about the past — you said that two years ago, you said that three years ago — and not including the new reports on how this affects the British economy, it is a bad policy. Perhaps we can learn that we would not do the same ourselves. And lastly: What this means for the Finnish Presidency, which will begin in the middle of this year, was well highlighted here. Our table may have the most difficult problems for the future of the EU as a whole, and it is good to be prepared for this now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u36	Mr President! The government proposal is good. Of course we want to ensure that some 5,000 British citizens in Finland can continue to work and live here, and in that sense such proactive legislation is necessary in such a situation. In my own speech, I have not taken a position on what this British decision on the euro is, whether it is good or bad. Of course, I recognise that it is bad for Finland, as I mentioned earlier today. Of course, Finland would benefit from having such a critical Member State of the European Union, which drives or drove a great deal of the same things as Finland did in the European Parliament. However, we must understand that people are also affected by images and facts about what is happening within the European Union. The banking crisis alone in Finland has already caused us to have a few ten billion euro guarantee in the state for the loans that Greece, Ireland, Spain and many other countries have taken to cope with their own economic crises. [OlaviAla-Nissilänkäyt-JariMyllykoski intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u39	We are already running out of time for this, but I thought that those who have now asked to speak will have the opportunity to do so. Then if there's any more, they'll stay until tonight.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u40	Madam President! I am not saying whether anyone here is particularly right or wrong, but this Brexit is a dangerous example of where this whole political system in Europe is going if we accept that any information can be provided through any instrument. Facebook, social media, can probably not be prevented, but this well shows that when promises are made before the elections that life will improve and you can put more money into everything, then when the real election comes, you will see that all those who have promised will disappear underground. This could happen in any European country. It may happen again in Finland. We have an election coming up, too. Who will influence these elections and in what way? And if we go through election promises to present complex things so that when we do this or this, it will be good for the people, and then the people will be disappointed, then the whole political system will lose face. Throughout the ages, Finland’s strength has been that people trust one another, that people trust the political system and authority. The more this trust collapses, the closer we get to chaos. [MikaNiikkoarvo]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u43	Madam President! In this previous speech, Mr Eestilä well described the unfortunate consequences of the Brexit decision taken by the British people and the pre-eminences that led to this terrible situation today that the British are forced to leave the EU in one way or another, either by a hard Brexit or by some sort of agreement. However, I bet when at least the EU has announced that there is no new negotiation, that it will then be the tough Brexi apparently ahead. When you look at today’s news — I just checked out a couple of news sources there just now — there are quite clear signs of it. Two big things the British will probably regret in 50 years' time: London is known to be one of the world's financial centres, one of the largest, and has been chosen a few times as the world's leading financial centre, I think, in 2009. This means that these financial centres — bankers, banks and financial institutions — are gradually withdrawing. The likely direction is probably Germany's Frankfurt, for example. Secondly, we learned the other week that the Japanese car company was investing in England with a huge investment, a new modern car factory. And on top of the last one, big money would have been put in that car factory, but now the investment has been cancelled, and it's probably going somewhere on the European continent. Probably Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic or something like that is an investment. So here comes the concrete that the British have to face: when you go behind the customs wall, when the open market goes behind the customs wall, you are sure to lose out on competition. I believe that if the British are forced to do so they will have unpredictable financial consequences. As has been said in the EU, if the British wanted to withdraw their resignation, they would have the right under Community law to do so, but I believe that, in this political situation, the British will not, of course, dare to do so because it would be a loss of face for many. Sad is the situation, and in the next three years we will see what the final consequences are.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u44	Madam President! This proposal is good and in order right now, because when Brexit is taking place, Parliament is on electoral leave, and this law must be put into effect before then, so that the British in Finland are in a better position than they would otherwise be. Mr President! I am reminded of the weeks prior to 16 October 1994 when Finland was preparing for a referendum. At the time, also according to a number of subsequent reports, we were able to disseminate very dubious information about the European Community, the current EU, in a number of ways. The whole media was tied to a certain side, a trade union movement, of course, capital circles.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u54	As the timetable is tight, I offer a response to the representatives of Ala-Niss, Kari Mika and Myllykoski. — — — — Congressman Ala-Nissila, would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u55	Mr President! The offer is accepted, thank you. — Let me just say briefly that the political system is indeed in trouble in many countries in Europe. Produce polls, and the data base is flawed. In Italy, for example, where it seems to be almost the brother party of the Finns, it is precisely because of its bad policy that we are heading for the financial crisis. In Britain, when the parties are scattered, there are only bad alternatives, and they are also unable to decide on them. We were here with Mr Kankaanniemi when Finland joined the EU. I personally did not support rapid EU membership, but we supported the good government of Aho anyway. Finland’s decision was influenced by security policy to a very great extent, and it is today. I do not want to take Finland to Russia’s sphere of interest — if you can say so directly — as you heard about some of these weights. However, Finland’s position is somewhere in Europe. We are now in this European cooperation, in the West.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u56	Madam President! Mr Niikko, you criticised and handled the 2015 refugee crisis, the asylum crisis. I've got to go, Congressman Niikko, a little on the calendar. In the autumn of 2015, when there were just these problems you described, you had a seat in the government. The Finns of Finland were in the government, the Finns of Finland were also in charge of Finnish foreign policy, and you had the chairship of the Parliamentary Administrative Committee even then, as it has been since 2011. [MikaNikko requests reply ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u57	Mr Niiko had the answer, and then Mr Myllykoski. We can't go on like this now, believe me. — — — — Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kari, we're going to go to that at the time of 2015. I was then, and I am still the chairman of the Administrative and Security Section, and I did not like the fact that 250 million were bludgeoned and when little more money was spent on the assessment of how to deal with the refugee crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u59	Then Mrs Myllykoski, the reply, and it is reasonable, of course, that Mrs Kankaanniemi should reply briefly, but then let us go to another point.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u60	Madam President! Now to this passionate debate I have nothing to say. In fact, I intervened in the debate here and in the discussion that the trade union movement was one of the most enthusiastic. I must say that I personally supported it because I saw that the starting points of a social Europe are well secured when we are in the EU. It was Mrs Myllykoski's view that we can promote working conditions and, in a liberalised market, we can promote commercialism and the growth of the export industry and well-being and sustainable development to produce well-being for our social society and our social security society — that was my view. We have been disappointed that we went more to the financial sector. But I still believe that the starting point was the right one: security and a social Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u61	Mr President! Italy's problems and indebtedness took place under Berlusconi and Prodi, not under the current government. As far as immigration in Finland is concerned, which is not part of this in itself, I will simply say that the Sipilä Government was appointed on 29 May 2015 and an immigration avalanche began in August, i.e. there was a holiday from Parliament and elsewhere. And so the system of legislation that the previous government and the previous governments had created, and that was an indecent situation, was not in any way prepared for what then happened. So this is the truth. As far as the year 94 is concerned, yes, yes, the SAK and the entire trade union movement were in a massive position here, and the farmers were also misled into this system, and now we see where we are going and where we are going.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u62	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u63	We shall now proceed to the second reading of item 2 which has been suspended earlier in this plenary session. Representative Mika Kari — absent, representative Myller — absent.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u64	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u65	Madam President! The critical opinions of experts consulted by the committee have raised problems relating to the conversion of the fine, but the proposal does not provide satisfactory solutions in this form. The essence of the bill is to promote the credibility of the criminal justice system, respect for the prohibitions and orders of the law and general law-abiding. Experts say that this objective can justify any hardening of criminal law. Questions have been raised in the expert hearings as to whether the offer will correct that credibility and whether the change that has been made will be worth its price. Could the same be achieved by another measure, and what would be the other benefits of these measures and the costs they entail? Unfortunately, these questions that guide the rational use of criminal law have not been asked and answers have not been received. According to the proposal, for reasons of principle, a conversion penalty has been considered necessary in situations where repeated offences are at hand in the event of a complete absence of sanctions. At the same time, however, the problem with the proposal has been identified in expert evaluations as the fact that a crime whose seriousness requires a slight penalty is therefore punishable by imprisonment. In principle, therefore, it is considered problematic that this severity is directed specifically at those who are deprived and otherwise vulnerable.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u68	Mr President! According to a government proposal, the conduct of persons guilty of seven similar offences within a year should be dealt with in court proceedings. In this case, it would be possible to convert the fine imposed on a person into imprisonment if it is not recovered from the sentenced person. This change has been justified above all by the credibility of the criminal justice system, the observance of the prohibitions and orders of the law and the general law-abiding nature of the law. These are valid arguments. I would like to remind you that, even today, the police can, at their discretion, bring fines to the prosecutor and to the courts. According to the police manual, the seventh repeated fine for a similar crime is brought to court. The government's proposal means an increase in the workload for the police, prosecutors and courts, just because the court should also deal with cases where the fined person pays his fine in any case. Unpaid fines always go to recovery, so this proposal will only be directed at those who are insolvent and have lost credit information. The question may be asked: is it right that the conversion penalty should only be applied to insolvent persons? More than two out of three finers are high consumers of drugs and half of them are particularly heavily dependent on drugs. Fine prisoners are in great need of health care, especially substance abuse rehabilitation. The main reason for this proposal is to promote the credibility of the criminal justice system, respect for the prohibitions and orders of the law and general law-abiding. Experts say that this objective can justify any hardening of criminal law. Questions have been raised in the expert consultation as to whether the offer will correct that credibility, whether the resulting change is worth its price, whether the same could have been achieved by another measure and what the other benefits and costs of these measures would be. These questions, which guide the rational use of criminal law, have not been asked and answers have not been received. The problem with the proposal has been identified in expert evaluations as the fact that a crime — such as shoplifting — of which a slight fine is imposed is therefore punishable by imprisonment. Intoxicant abusers carry out conversion sentences in prison and are largely marginalised and seriously ill-health. Their contribution is an essential need for support and care. Among other things, experts have suggested that, in addition to alternative forms of imprisonment available to persons with substance abuse problems, the court should have the possibility to impose, for example, a contractual treatment sanction if the health and social situation of the sentenced person so warrants. That would be a better option than the law now presented. This is also an option raised in the protest of the Left Alliance and the Greens. The committee's report, however, in which the majority is in favour, is also very critical and highlights the findings, shortcomings and problems expressed by experts in this proposal. The report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights gives very strong consideration to alternative sanctions and support measures for substance abuse care. The motion for a resolution proposes that the government examines the possibilities of developing and extending the placement of persons sentenced to a conversion penalty in an outside institution for substance abuse care and the possibility of ensuring the continuity of the necessary substance abuse, social welfare and health services for a sufficient period of time after the institution's investment and conversion. Mr President! It is quite clear that in this country everyone must have justice. Of course, on the side of traders and entrepreneurs, I am in such situations when they feel powerless in the face of constant shoplifting. I think it is important that the police manual provides advice on how to deal with these situations and that the police have the discretion to take matters forward to the prosecutor, but, on the other hand, I call for people who are genuinely insolvent, who have substance abuse problems, who fall completely outside the safety net of society, to be better able to help people who are not intoxicated. The amendment also means that even cases where a fine is paid in any case go to the courts to burden them. We know that the resources of the courts have actually been severely cut for several years and this has led to a situation in which we can ask ourselves whether there will be sufficient legal protection for victims who need rapid justice and legal protection in order to promote their cause. Mr President! I support Mr Hänninen's motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u69	Mr President! This government proposal therefore proposes to amend the law on fines and fines and the penal code. According to the motion, a penalty order or a fine order would not be capable of dealing with a criminal offence if the prior fine offences being fined show, on the basis of their repetition and similarity, a manifest disregard for the prohibitions and orders of the law and for the penalties imposed for their infringements. Where at least six fines have been imposed on a person on the basis of acts committed during the year preceding the infringement, the infringement would be dealt with before the court. In this way, it would be possible to impose a conversion penalty on those guilty of fines repeatedly. We dealt with this in the Committee on Legal Affairs during the past winter. This proposal is justified precisely by the fact that it contributes to the credibility of our criminal justice system, to compliance with the prohibitions and orders of the law and to the general lawfulness of the law. In the past, the use of the conversion of the fine has been reduced, particularly in the period 2006-2008. Indeed, in 2007, a change took place in which fines for a maximum of 20 daily penalty orders were made impossible to convert, i.e. they could not be converted into prison sentences. Shortly after that, 2008, a change in the law was introduced to remove the possibility of conversion from all fines imposed in the penalty procedure. What, then, did this mean for the amount of fines? The number of finers has decreased as a result of the changes, since in 2006 the average number of prisoners serving the conversion penalty was 189 per day, the average number of prisoners in this decade has been slightly over 50 — 50 in this decade, compared with 189 more than ten years ago. Of course, it would be wonderful if this reduction in the amounts were due to the fact that no fines had been imposed and that no crimes had been committed in our beloved Finland, but unfortunately this is not because of it. Mr President! There are also challenges in this welcome government proposal, and many of them were raised in the course of the consultation. The expert hearings pointed out, among other things, that the clarification of the validity of the law is not without problems and that our legal and judicial information systems are not yet ready for this proposal, so the entry into force of this government proposal would then be only 21. As far as substance abuse and various rehabilitation programmes are concerned, the Committee considers it important that the Criminal Sanctions Agency should have the appropriate resources to organise rehabilitation and various rehabilitation programmes for finers during the implementation of the conversion penalty. It is also essential to promote the placement of fine prisoners in outside substance abuse care. These substance abuse rehabilitations have also been good experiments between 14 and 16, and the Committee on Legal Affairs notes that these experiments should be continued and then promoted. Mr President! When a person reconciles his actions, whether it is fines or a direct prison sentence, and gets back into freedom, a person needs to travel alongside him. In time, I spoke, among other things, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, but also in Prison Mission Days, about the need for our society to support when people seek change in their own way of life and need courage, hope and belief in it tomorrow. Someone once said that the only kind of courage you need is the one that takes you from this moment to the next. Whether it is a longer-term conversion of fines or any other prison sentence, I can see that in this society we would still have far more areas of development in order to be able to promote this co-modality. Finally, I would like to thank Mr Antti Häkkänen, the Minister for Justice, who has also shown in this respect that action and courage can put things forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u70	Madam President! This is part of the penal blackmail package by Minister of Justice Antti Häkkänen and the restoration of this common sense and public sense of justice to our penal practices. The same applies, among other things, to the penalties for sexual offences against children, the definitions of first-time offences have been tightened and amended, conditional prison sentences have been tightened by amending the accompanying sanctions, and the assessment of the risks of prisoners has also been extended and their binding nature is now being tightened. This package also includes the reimbursement of the conversion penalty for this fine. After all, this was removed in 2008 under the leadership of the Minister of Justice of the Greens, Tuija Brax, and since then the cost of trade has actually been around EUR 550 million per year. Mr Hänninen pointed out what this legislation is now costing the state — it costs about 10 million — but it is still a matter of this current state that has cost more than EUR 550 million to Finnish people every year for the past ten years. [KatjaHänninen requests a reply ] And what happened? This was well described by Mrs Talvitie: our shoplifters, who are making small thefts and petty thefts of less than EUR 500, became indifferent and even arrogant in their actions as a result of this legislative amendment by Tuija Brax. They ignored the fact that they did not receive any punishment, and that is why I am surprised that Mr Hänninen of the Left Alliance suggested that there would be no punishment for the low-income.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u71	Mr President! I have to say to Mr Heinos that I myself am a shopkeeper and I have met people who do not learn from it. Some of them have been in prison once in a while, and they're still coming back. What is essential is how crime management plays, what measures other than the ability to swing the cage, and how these resources can be managed. It is true that this effort also states that it is necessary to find out other ways of doing so, because it is clearly apparent that it does not reduce crime, even though this fine has been subject to a conversion penalty. It has not reduced the petty thefts, it has not reduced the cost of trade and the problem that these currently face. It is true that when we talk about security too, it is also a question of the safety of staff and of the general obligation and compliance with the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u72	Congressman Heinonen, one more response. Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u73	Mr President! When this debate has revealed that many of these people are also drug addicts, it is precisely then that they will also be able to access these services and help in prison, that is, they will be cut off through it and will receive support and assistance in getting rid of the cycle of substance abuse and perhaps various indebtednesss or drugs, or whatever it is behind it. But I think it is a totally intolerable situation that, at the moment, traders are totally powerless with these professional criminals, professional shoplifters, when they are indifferent and arrogant in their actions, and yes, it is a greater danger to the cashier of the store than we are to get such a person out of the store every day to make the same petty thefts.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u74	At this point, let's go on the list and then at some point, let's take those debatable speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u75	Mr President! It is not in the public sense that a shoplifter should be able to pay a fine like a dog. This message came, and a lot, from merchants all over Finland. The reason for this principle was that if a shoplifter had previously been found to be broke, he would have no greater need to pay the fines. And this, as Mr Heinonen said, costs the Finnish merchant more than EUR 500 million a year. It's a rough number. That is why it is excellent that the government now intervenes in this rather embarrassing phenomenon. From now on, unpaid police fines can be converted into imprisonment or social services. The mere idea, Mr President, that, for example, shoplifting is now possible, must certainly reduce the number of people trying to shoplift. This is a good reform and, fortunately, Minister Häkkänen is now responding to the voice of the field.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u76	Madam President! I personally welcome the introduction of this fine for conversion. The debate has highlighted the type of group that this current state is dealing with. This is largely about people with substance abuse problems, trade staff, traders and so on, and of course also about us consumers. In one way or another, all the damage to trade is also to consumer prices and thus to people's shopping baskets. With regard to legislation: the law is the same for all, and this indifference, which is rampant largely because the person who commits the crime or shoplifting here knows that the long hand of the law, the penalties of the judiciary, will not follow, will of course enable this type of action. With regard to this type of activity, it is good that we return to a better time. Unfortunately, however, it will take time to do so, in 2021 it seems to be the day the law enters into force. At the same time, I would like to remind you of the resources of the judiciary. The resources of the judiciary have been cut over several years in various contexts, and when we demand that the judiciary and the whole of this security chain operate from the police, we must always look to that side of the wallet and the decisions that have been taken by this government and by the previous government. We need resources for police field work, we need resources for police investigations, we need resources for justice and judicial processes, and we also need resources for criminal sanctions. And one of the levels of resources for which we need resources in particular is social security and safety nets, so that people do not come to shoplift, either in hunger or thirst, but that society can intervene in these matters even before the actual crime has been committed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u77	Madam President! This government proposal is good and long-awaited. After all, it is a principle that no one can, as it were, be placed in a privileged position to violate the law and yet the property of others. This must also include the protection of property and the general rules of criminal policy. We cannot set out in society without borders, as if some reason for man’s current weakness gave him the right to break the law. That is why this is, as it were, a moral government proposal and therefore a good one. Mr Hänninen quite rightly pointed out that we have people who really need help and who are in trouble with their own life control, but we cannot go channeling that help to justify, as it were, repeatedly disregarding the property of someone else and committing crimes. In my opinion, treatment and, as it were, human therapy should be completely removed from this criminal legislation and understood that these are different things. But in recent years we have gone in too loose a direction, at least in my opinion: stealing a bicycle, for example, is a bit of a bad habit for someone. You can't think that way about things. There are police officers here and they can use their own speech, but in my opinion, any insult to someone else's property, even a minor one, is a crime. It cannot be handled as if, well, it is such a harmless habit that today occurs among young people. These crimes must be eradicated, controlled and punished, just as they must be eradicated from these canals and others. If you're thirsty or hungry, you'll have to do it another way. I think it is quite right that we should go a little bit tighter. Combining this matter with a large picture, when the boundaries have been narrowed and slightly removed, it does not lead to well - being for our young and many others, but to nausea. This too should be understood. That is why this government proposal fits in with the idea that we are gradually setting limits for each of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u78	Madam President! Our punishment system must be credible. It cannot be that those guilty of repeated crimes of the same kind are able to survive in practice without punishment. It's against our sense of justice. In most cases, prisoners who are subject to the conversion penalty are in substance abuse problems, in poor health and insolvent, as we have heard in many speeches today. A few years ago, a survey of prisoners ’ health revealed that prisoners who are subject to the conversion penalty are an exceptionally ill group even compared to other prisoners. For this reason too, it is good that they even get proper care in prison. A conversion sentence could also serve as a gateway back to a better, intoxicated and inviolable life if the right kind of help can be offered in prison. Then there is this very harsh group of young men and women who do not care about any punishment, not about any laws, but who walk into the store and out of the store with a shipment of beer. I don't think they're sick. I don't think they need any more sympathy. However, they already need punishment for their actions because of their public sense of justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u79	Mr President! Like a few other Members, I am surprised at the proposal put forward by the Left Alliance and the Greens, which would then be rejected by this bill, which will allow the fine to be converted into a prison sentence. The most important aspect of this bill is the principle of public sense of law that a criminal offence should be punishable. From the point of view of the credibility of the judicial system, it is important that the conversion penalty can be used in cases where the fine cannot be recovered due to negligence or other reasons. In this context, however, it should be noted that the limit of six fines recorded in this government proposal has already been recorded in the police manual. Apparently, the main purpose of this proposal is to put into practice the practice currently in practice in the law. The police, therefore, are acting as already mentioned in the proposal, so the actual impact of the proposal would be rather limited, but it would be positive in principle. It has been criticised in this Chamber that this government proposal would cost just over EUR 10 million a year, but it is still a very small sum compared to, for example, the crime damage caused to the trade sector by more than EUR 500 million a year and also the VAT revenue lost by the state. Mr President! Finally, I would remind you that at the first reading of the draft law, the Finns of Finland tabled an amendment to the law, a stricter line than the government's proposal, which would have reduced the limit for the application of the conversion penalty from the six fine or penalty orders proposed to three, but unfortunately we did not receive support from other parties in the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u80	Madam President! This is a step in the right direction, but the general sense of justice does not understand that a car will be refueled repeatedly, for example, to service stations — now six times a year: fill up the car and leave and tear up the ticket if you are broke. The seventh time may then become a conversion penalty. And the police — I repeat what I said the previous time: Thieves came to a gas station, emptied it. Then the owner noticed this and shot him in the air, tried to stop or shut him down. Well, the cops showed up and started looking for those shell casings. Well, the operator of the gas station that ‘the detective robbers,the yes-needed-to-be,I,too,part of the collector’. In other words, police action should be directed first and foremost against these villains. And for this conversion penalty: I am, at least sometimes, such a curious person, and when I received a fine — a note that I get in that traffic from time to time if I drive a lot — then I asked if I could get this as a conversion penalty — that was the amount of daily fines — to eat it. But when I had the wealth, no matter how much I bummed out that a couple of weeks of vacation would be in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u81	Madam President! I listened to Mr Hakkarainen's speech, and here I have to wrink at my mouth. In my opinion, the important thing in this debate is that we have forgotten the early stage of intervention in this whole debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u84	Mr President! A good debate, and at the same time an indication to all those traders of how these shoplifters affect their livelihoods and, therefore, consumer prices. Punishments will indeed also have the preventive effect, not just the future penalty. And I believe in that deterrent effect myself: After all, it has been a young policeman since he was there in front of Katajanokka’s prison, and strangely enough, the money will be there in a few minutes, the friends will come, rather than go — what Mr. Hakkarainen spoke about — to rest in that prison. In concrete terms — at least you have the experience — when those closed doors are really in front of you, that freedom becomes so concrete that you dig it up from your friends. These memories from the early '90s. Representative Savio spoke of the fact that in this law, a little as in a way — you did not use that word, but I interpreted it — the way of the country would now be properly put into the law, and at the same time I remembered that in time, for example, police law itself was such that, in a way, it included in the law what was already the way of the country. That's just the point. All the same, the three conversion sentences proposed by the True Finns were certainly not too bad, but now we are going to go through this and then see how the future is going to be.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u85	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order 4. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 31/2018 vp, it will be decided on the basis of a single reading of the Convention and reservations under the Convention and the declarations to be made and then on the basis of a legislative proposal at second reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u86	Madam President! The multilateral tax convention under discussion is welcome and its provisions are essentially an improvement on the current situation. Globally, the effects of the Convention depend on the number of countries involved and on the extent to which they apply it. The less countries are involved and the smaller part of the provisions of the Convention they apply, the smaller the importance of the Joint Agreement. Madam President! The Convention leaves considerable scope for States to adopt the provisions of the Convention. The Finnish Government has decided to introduce the preamble to the purpose of the tax agreement, the general provision on the prevention of abuse of the tax agreement, the revised provisions on the mutual agreement procedure and the provisions on the counter-correction of transfer pricing — i.e. a counter-correction. The government has also seized the possibility of extending international arbitration in cases of conflict, but in some cases the government has made a so-called reservation, i.e. it has decided not to use the provisions of the agreement. By choosing a limited scope and a broad reservation, Finland has contributed to the overall effectiveness of the Convention. The more countries act like Finland, the less the international tax treaty network will curb aggressive tax planning and the erosion of tax bases. The multilateral agreement is also part of the rule-based multilateral system to which the Finnish Government has made an impressive commitment. We therefore believe that Finland should introduce the provisions of the Convention as widely as possible and apply them to all tax treaties. That is why I have tabled the third motion for a statement, which is in line with the objection. Madam President! Could you say that because of the flu, the little one is clinging?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u87	You didn't notice.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u88	Mr President! In any case, that statement came out well and I support this proposal for this statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u89	Honorable Speaker! Thank you, Mrs Myllykoski, for a good introduction. This is therefore part of the OECD BEPS project package, which contains paragraph 15. I would like to comment briefly on these proposals for statements, so that two of them are to be welcomed and then this third is not so much, so we will not be supporting this in the event of a vote. After all, it would distribute these revenues according to such a formula, based on the CCTB or CCCTB calculation method, and it would not be so cheap for Finland then, so this proposed statement cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u90	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 29/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u91	Madam President! The proposal proposes to update the provisions of the Administrative Law on the general information procedure. The general statement would give up the primacy of the Official Journal and I do not consider it a bad thing at all. In the future, the placing of a document on the public information network shall be announced on the website of the authority and, where appropriate, in a newspaper from which the recipient can best be expected to be informed. However, in cases where the notification of the existence of a document cannot be published on the Authority’s website, the status of the Official Journal as the dominant means of notification at the time of notification of the general statement shall be maintained. The aim of the proposal is to improve the communication and the general information procedure. The objective of modernising regulation and improving the efficiency of the procedure should be supported, as should the proposed regulatory justification, because the regulation also takes good account of situations where the public information network does not have sufficient service.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u92	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 23/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u93	Madam President! The cultivation of a genetically modified organism requires an EU-wide cultivation permit. That is the starting point. Nor do we currently have genetically modified food on the market, and I do not think we need it. There are no genetically modified crops suitable for cultivation or interest in Finland in the EU, so the cultivation of GMOs has not been estimated to be a topical issue for us in the near future. However, we have a little over half of all imported soya. With a good conscience, you can ask: Why, is it such an important product? This government proposal now proposes to legislate, which would introduce national arrangements to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of GMOs in accordance with that directive. The law would also provide for supervision of national arrangements. I think it's important, and I hope it gets to the finish line.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u94	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 33/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u95	Mr President! This government proposal is positive, but I would nevertheless like to emphasise that the abandonment of coal energy is only one step towards the abandonment of fossil fuels, which, overall, we must do if we are to take a fair share of Finland's climate change mitigation to 1.5 degrees. After all, the Finnish climate panel has estimated by what time Finland should be carbon neutral, so to speak, in a situation where our emissions do not exceed carbon sinks in our country's territory, such as forests. And the different calculation criteria now give different years, 2030, 2040 or 2035 — in any case, it means that there is not much more than ten years before Finland needs to be carbon neutral. This issue is also recognised in the joint climate statement of the eight parliamentary parties. I think it is important to understand that it is not clear that coal is being banned to make electricity production and heat production more low-emission, more environmentally friendly. The next biggest rush is to give up the use of peat, but in time we must also give up natural gas in the production of electricity and heat. It is also important to do so, as stated in the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy on this issue, among other things, that coal is not replaced by another combustion. The worst option would be to replace coal with peat, but in Helsinki, for example, replacing coal burning with wood chips would not be a good option either, since we need carbon sinks in forests. Mr President! Finally, I would like to raise a point which has also been mentioned in the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and that is that the actual climate benefit from the closure of coal installations will only be achieved if the corresponding amount of allowances from the EU emissions trading market is subsequently cancelled.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u96	Mr President! I have to say that this government proposal is a proposal that can be applauded with pleasure. It is extremely good that the presentation of the last date for coal should be brought to the attention of Parliament. But in the same way as Mr Hassi, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we must at the same time recognise that Finland's climate policy is currently not in line with this 1.5-degree climate target. That is why we must look at this as a whole. It is extremely good that the government has now admitted at this point that the situation has been serious and has introduced this new instrument and it is clearly stated that there are fuels that are things that will no longer be able to be used in the future if climate change is to be combated and climate change is taken seriously. And this also means, of course, that we must look at our energy palette as a whole. We need to be able to talk about the fuels that move our cars, we need to be able to talk about peat and we need to be able to talk about natural gas. While we are here discussing how coal is being banned, we know that Finland spends more than EUR 1 billion on fossil subsidies, and in a situation where climate change is being combated, this is not possible. This means that we need to create steps towards how these fossil subsidies will be abandoned at the same time as we plan how we will get rid of all fossil fuels, because that is what we need to combat climate change. Climate change is nothing less than how we ensure that this ball remains viable for those who are here after us, and we have very little time. If we take the climate panel report seriously, it means that we have 10 years to create steps in carbon neutral ground, 10 years. That means that when my daughter, who goes to preschool this year, goes to high school, this country must be carbon neutral. This means that we must act quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u97	Mr President! This is a day of mourning. Olli Lindholm has left us, and it feels like he's too early. This has affected the mood now, and I would like to pay tribute by saying that I am sorry to his loved ones for his passing away. But now to the point, to this government proposal of 200: The Finns of Peru have a different opinion on this. The Finns are a rational party that makes responsible energy policy on the basis of facts and not ideological opposition. We do not want to drive domestic energy production down and rely on the fact that electricity can always be purchased abroad when demand for electricity exceeds domestic production. An honest and responsible energy policy is that the energy we need is produced itself and as clean as possible, and not that electricity is purchased abroad and that emissions from energy production are left a problem for others. Finnish combined heat and power plants have made large investments in the cleanliness of energy production. The cleaning rate of flue-gases is very high and the benefits of power plants are top-notch in the world. The emission limits have been defined as stringent and have been well maintained. The by-products of the combustion process are also utilised: ash from soil construction and flue gas cleaning gypsum as a raw material for gypsum sheets. Waste heat generated in connection with electricity production is utilised in district heat production, which ensures energy-efficient, environmentally-friendly and efficient heating without local emissions. Approximately half of the heating energy used in Finland is produced by district heating. In Finland, the need for electricity and heating is highest in the winter when the frosts are at their highest. In this case, the majority of the daytime is dark, and the wind is the least windy in hard frosts. Solar and wind power are not the solution to replace existing forms of energy production in these circumstances. Reducing energy consumption is also not a realistic option. Homes and jobs must be heated even in the winter and industrial production cannot be driven down without significant short-term losses and long-term losses due to reduced security of supply. At the same time, efforts are being made to increase the number of electric cars in transport, resulting in a likely further increase in electricity consumption in the future. The Government is concerned with a reasonable and appropriate obligation to ensure that material wood suitable for industrial use is primarily directed to high value added products rather than energy production. Wood incineration is ineffective insofar as it is not waste raw material and there is no guarantee of the sustainable origin or availability of wood pellets imported from abroad. Renewable energy sources should be treated realistically, taking into account not only emissions from actual energy production but also emissions from, for example, the production and transport of wood pellets. It is in Finland's interest to produce the energy it needs itself and as little as possible, and to evaluate different energy sources without ideological fervor on the basis of facts. The emission-free energy sources at our disposal, which produce electricity evenly and surely, regardless of the lighting and wind conditions, are nuclear and hydropower. In addition, under certain circumstances, we can produce part of the electricity, including solar and wind power, but it must be recognised that these forms of energy are, at best, uncertain and dependent on weather conditions. When weather conditions are not optimal, fossil fuels are still needed. An environmentally friendly and economically sound solution is to use fossil fuels in production plants with maximum efficiency and reduced emissions. These include modern combined heat and power plants, whose flue-gases are cleaned and which meet even the strictest environmental standards. The Finns of Peru demand that energy policy policies take their senses into consideration and critically evaluate previous policies. The burning of coal should not be opposed on ideological grounds, but the climate strategy must be viewed objectively, not through wind-power glasses. Finland must stick to solutions that ensure security of supply in our country, even in exceptional circumstances, where the necessary amount of electricity and heat can be produced in the full benefit and as strictly as possible, also taking into account the transport costs of fuels. The position of hard coal should not be seen in the light of the past, but the rational approach is to take into account the current state of production where production is clean and in line with emission standards. This government proposal is the result of one-eyed ideological falsification and is not based on facts. If implemented, it will increase both the price of electricity and heat, weaken Finland’s competitiveness and limit both appropriate energy production and the achievement of climate policy emission reductions. So we have a different view of this, a climate-realistic view, and we will then, at second reading, present the wreckage of these laws. In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, I was unable to protest because I was unable to attend for family reasons. I'm sorry I read this so quickly and sadly, but I'm sure you'll understand the feelings of the Porians today.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u98	Mr President! This government proposal is good and worthy of support. In my opinion, this is by no means an ideological fad. On the contrary, it would be rather ideological to say that we would not take legislative measures that genuinely reduce CO2 emissions both in Finland and through different mechanisms throughout the EU and globally. Of course, this bill has the reservation or observation — as already stated in the government’s proposal — that if carbon is replaced by biomass and peat, there will be no CO2 reductions. There must therefore be an energy breakthrough, a shift towards clean forms of energy, and much more is needed than this bill. In any case, I am very pleased that the report was adopted by a very large majority in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and also in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy across the opposition and government boundaries. I personally regard this as a very important issue, and this certainly also shows that climate policy has understood that we really must and must act to achieve CO2 reductions as quickly as possible, because the more time we spend on burning fossil fuels, the greater the problem will be when we approach 2040 and 2050 and beyond. It is indeed important that the allowances that are exempt from the closure of coal installations are also cancelled, because that is the only way we can ensure that EU-wide emissions trading works in such a way that CO2 emissions are actually reduced. Indeed, I believe that this is one step towards achieving a carbon-free society. In the view of the Social Democrats, a carbon-neutral society should be reached in 2035. We need a wide range of control tools.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u99	Let's stick to the list of speakers. — Representative Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u100	Madam President! Climate change in itself I do not dispute, it is happening in both directions, and it is likely that warming is taking place at the moment, but I would warn against this rapid blindness of climate policy, which has taken over Finland in particular. After all, we do not see much change in the earth's atmosphere, nor do we see any attempt to curb it. This proposal in practice — I understand when I read the report — means that Helsinki and Vaasa are the places where this ban will have full effect in 2029 and beyond. Well, how is this done? First of all, Helsinki has drawn up its own operational programme for these two cities. You can find carbon neutral Helsinki in 2035, which is five years longer than this law requires. And so by 2035, Helsinki is going to give up coal. Now that Parliament is making a law on this and putting it into it in 2029, it means that Helsinki will have to speed up, as well as Vaasa, this measure, its abandonment, and Parliament promises to encourage it, or give it 90 million dollars. In other words, the law will decide that the state will pay, and the rest of us taxpayers in the country will pay what Helsinki should do with its own measures, because it itself is committed to it in that programme. I don't think this makes any sense. In Helsinki, the coalition, the Greens and the Social Democrats are in power. You are the fastest in this climate policy. Why, then, do you not deal with this now on this schedule in your councils, but want to legislate? Is it because it is through the law that you make the government pay this $90 million? I do not think that this is sensible decision-making for the state that we are here for. We then need compensation for this, and as was heard and read here in the report, it is a biomass that depends on imports in Helsinki, because we cannot produce such quantity and demand at home. All in all, I do not understand the logic of this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u101	Irade the Talman! The logic of this proposal is quite clear, and it must be supported on all sides. We need such mechanisms, we need such laws. If this is not taken through, it means that Mr Kankaanniemi will have to give up his internal combustion engine a little earlier. If we fail in one area, we will have to reach for it in the other. This is a whole in which all actions are relevant. Of course, there are many reasons for abandoning coal. It is this climate perspective, but it is also an expensive way to produce energy, it is an expensive way to produce electricity. It is a form of energy imported from other countries where it is produced using questionable methods. But yes, of course, it will require changes from all of us. It requires investment in heat storage for Helsinki, many others. It requires investment in heat pumps. It requires investment in the district heating network. It requires electrification in general in our society. Well, is this speed blindness, as Mr Kankaanniemi said? It is not our problem that we should go somewhere too fast, but the other way around. If we do not legislate like this, nothing will change. Some years ago it was suggested that the sulphur directive would destroy Finland's export industry and shipping. He didn't do it. It has been one step towards making the Baltic Sea even a little cleaner, and now the IMO is going to take the same measures, which means that Finnish industry has an advantage, because it has a good competitive advantage now that other countries have to introduce such equipment. That is, that we are ambitious, that we create an environment in our own country where there is a need and order for innovation, that we also build our own strong industry. The claims that carbon leakage exists: science does not support such a claim, so I hope that the Finns of Finland will stop talking about it too. On a general level, Sitra has stated that the 50% reduction target by 30 will be cost-neutral or will bring savings. At EU level, it is estimated that carbon neutrality will increase the economy by 50. So we're not complaining about misery here. This calls for renewal and gives the opportunity for renewal and economic reconstruction. It is a challenge, but it is a challenge that offers us a market that is certainly growing, and that is where we may be saving the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u102	Madam President! Listening to this conversation, I've been a little confused that you hear everything when you're old. In itself, this government proposal, which is now in the form of a report from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, is welcome and welcome. Of course we have to look for new forms of energy, it is obvious, and that is what rural municipalities in Finland have always done. My municipality also warms up with wood, and a little bit of peat is also burning with it. Why is it burning peat with it? To make the combustion temperature higher, fine particles all burn away. And in peat — as we all know, civilized people when we are and have studied — there is at best 10 percent wood, so it is also an excellent substance in heating and precisely raises the burning temperature and helps in that combustion process, there is very clean energy. In this debate, I am concerned about the extreme idealism that I found quite a lot of in Mr Adlercreutz's speech. It's a good thing your head's high, but your feet should be on the ground. It might get ugly if you hit the floor headfirst. When we look at today’s world’s energy economy, then — let’s be honest — the use of coal in this world will not stop. What can we do to put an end to this world when China, Indonesia
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u105	Mr President! From a climate point of view, it is essential to reduce emissions, increase sinks and direct money flows to climate-friendly targets. Today we are dealing with the issue of reducing emissions, but also the question of controlling money flows. It is wonderful that this law is now before Parliament and enjoys broad parliamentary support. Coal is a very large polluter globally, and it is also an important step globally that Finland makes a clear decision to abandon coal. In Finland, coal is not as big a role as it is in many countries, but I believe that with this decision we will send a positive international message. Of course, abandoning coal will also help reduce Finland's emissions and send a message that coal can actually be abandoned and coal-free energy production is possible. This is a concrete step forward on the road to reducing emissions, so thank you for that. It also sends a clear signal to the energy industry that in ten years' time it will end, namely the use of coal, and it will send out a clear message to plan future energy systems and direct investment. Mr President! As the report also points out, it is important to ensure that emissions are actually reduced as a result of this legislative change. This requires that unused allowances are actually cancelled and that coal is replaced by production that actually reduces emissions. The Government has the possibility of cancelling unused allowances with additional national measures, and this must be done to reduce emissions at European level as well. Mr President! We must ensure that coal is replaced mainly by non-combustion-based technologies, as the report strongly states. If, for example, coal were to be replaced by burning peat and heavy wood, it would not reduce net emissions. It is also important that the support for early abandonment, which is planned to be given, is directed to clean technology. Mr President! Ecological reconstruction is a huge construction site, and now we have to wrap our sleeves and get to work. It must be remembered that combating climate change is cheaper than adapting to it and that the development of climate-resistant technologies also opens up huge global markets for Finnish industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u106	Mr President! Mr Sarkkinen said that ‘open global markets’. I agree with that, and I also believe that we should invest a great deal in research and innovation and, in particular, in the knowledge of clean technologies. For example, when China wants to renew a district heating network, these projects are often very big, and for that we need European cooperation, global cooperation, because if it is a deal of EUR 18 billion, it is hardly enough volume for Finland to deal with the whole issue. But we can and will do a lot, and that is precisely what we must invest in. Climate tariffs are an extremely important issue because China, for example, is constantly building new coal-fired power stations and has a completely unnecessary competitive advantage that we here are overlooking in the sense that they do not respect human rights and environmental issues — well, this is obviously a wider whole — in the same way as in Western countries and should be done. Climate duties would be very good and would increase domestic production. If we think of India, then only India will increase its emissions twice as much each year as all Finland's emissions total. So this sense of proportion is the first thing we want to solve. The second point is the sharing of the EU's burden on climate issues. The EU countries trade 60% among themselves, so why should we give Poland, for example, a competitive advantage or other, when we also have to take into account the fact that we have the coldest climate, energy-intensive industries and long distances and that Finland has already cut its emissions twice as much as the average EU countries since the 1990s — twice as much as the average EU countries? We should cut emissions where it is cheapest and easiest, such as in Poland and Romania. Other parties are now committed to the Climate Task Force. There are many objectives, but one thing is that the price of energy will rise. You are committed to increasing the price of energy. For families with children, the price of energy will rise. Housing will be tilted. Think of the normal household-dwelling family that continues to shop, children still have to be taken to hobbies, parents still have to work, we want to keep the whole of Finland habitable, but you are committed to weakening the purchasing power of the ordinary Finnish citizen, which affects the operations of companies. The impact of energy prices is also directly linked to Finland’s competitiveness. This was a great opportunity to highlight our forest industry, which both brings energy and takes energy. The metal industry mostly consumes energy. But this sense of proportion. Then it has been said that well, low incomes are compensated or income transfers are made. Well, first you have to get that income so you can make those transfers. In any case, low income earners do not pay a great deal of income tax, so this is not on a sustainable basis, and that price tag has therefore not been brought here. The climate group did not bring up the price tag, but we know that the necessary expenses of ordinary people will rise and it will increase the purchasing power of ordinary people, and I do not know whose advantage it is. At least it's not in the interests of the environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u107	Mr President! It is interesting that some politicians always raise the issue of global population growth when it comes to controlling climate change. Of course, population growth is a problem, but I have been paying attention to the fact that the same politicians who try to avoid climate change with this talk of population growth are more reluctant to use development funds for sexual and reproductive health work, namely to make the use of prevention more accessible in practice to women in developing countries and also to make their rights to prevention clearer. As far as who is blind to what speed is concerned, unfortunately, it is now that we have had blindness, mainly to the pace of climate change. For example, the five hottest years of Earth’s measurement history have been the last five years. For example, this shows the pace of climate change. As far as the impact of environmental measures and climate action on the economy is concerned, for example, Aktia Bank's former Chief Economist Timo Tyrväinen in MustRead a few weeks ago stressed the fact that economists have already understood that when the consequences of climate change cost money, it means that, for example, in 2050, humanity will be less prosperous if we do not control climate change compared to our efforts to mitigate climate change. As far as Finland's national interests are concerned, I would remind you that as early as five years ago, environmental technology rose from both its turnover and its jobs and its exports to a larger entity than the forest industry. It is not visible to us politicians and the general public in the same way because, for example, there is no giant company of environmental technology the size of any large paper industry. There are many smaller companies and then parts of larger companies that are doing this work, but, as a whole, both their turnover and their exports are already a larger business area than the forest industry. As far as Helsinki is concerned, even though I am not from Helsinki, I would like to say that the City of Helsinki has decided on its own initiative for years before this law on the closure of the first coal power plant, and this law, which in itself is welcome, will certainly speed up the closure of its second coal power plant.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u108	Mr President! Surely there are many reasons and excuses for not doing anything, but at least I believe when science has very convincingly told us what is happening in our climate and also what we have to do. And in Finland, for example, the Climate Panel and Sitra in their own studies have stated that if we want to be on this 1.5-degree route, i.e. that the earth will remain viable in the future, then the need for emission reductions will be 60 per cent by 2030. That is not what we have yet committed ourselves to in this House, nor has the commitment of the eight parties so far gone but quite close. This is the policy we must also be able to do in Finland as Finns at European level and as Europeans at world level. We have already achieved a great deal. For example, this climate agreement in Paris is a strong indication that there is a global understanding of what is happening and what we need to do. The fact that Finnish legislation allows new emission reduction measures in Finland is very important. With legislation and various economic instruments, we are creating the investment security that our companies need in order to cope with this international competition for new jobs, new innovations. In the future, most of the new innovations – and in fact a large part of them at the moment – will be precisely those that will solve the problems that climate change is creating. When we look for a price tag — this has already been repeated to the point of boredom — it costs far more than doing, and the low-income and disadvantaged, both globally and in Finland, will suffer the most. But of course, Mr President, in Finland, whenever we take decisions, we must take account of their social impact.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u109	Madam President! After all, the main objective of this bill is that the use of coal in Finland is almost completely banned. After May 2029, the use of coal would only be allowed if security of supply or operational security so requires. The bill is well-founded and supported. This really is a much more serious and bigger issue than a coal-fired power plant in a single city or municipality. This is our common global problem, the fight against climate change, which requires several small and large sub-solutions and tools. This means that fossil energy must be abandoned mainly within a specified and accelerated timeframe, including peat, with a brisk hand, and our carbon footprint must be reduced. In these matters, Finland does not in all respects have much pride in showing on a global scale. We have already done a lot, but much remains to be done. If we could go back between 200 and 300 years, start from the beginning the whole of industrialisation and the rise in living standards and prosperity globally in Europe and in Finland too, the situation would be quite different. Surely we would leave fossil energy resources, including coal, in the bosom of the earth and, with the information we now have, we would base our electricity and energy systems on completely different solutions. But this is not the situation. The situation on earth, the time, the atmosphere, we can't reset. The situation is that there is much more carbon dioxide in the atmosphere than there should be in balance laws, so that the climate does not get too warm. And then it means emission reductions, it means increasing carbon sinks, increasing carbon stocks, and no part of that game can be ignored. The timetable is not in any way too busy, as has already been said. It is necessary, to say the least, and we could have acted more quickly, but it is good that we are doing it now. As far as electricity prices are concerned, this whole adaptation to climate change and the fight against climate change will not happen without pain, but the price of electricity in the Nordic electricity markets, among other things, has already fallen as a result of the huge increase in renewable energy and the huge fall in the price of renewable energy, and we should continue along this path.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u110	Madam President! It is quite clear that when coal is imported to us, it is worth trying to get rid of it. It is economically wise and also climate-based. However, this ban on this timetable does not make sense. This committee’s report states: ‘The effects of the ban on coal on CO2 emissions are not self-explanatory. Due to emissions trading, emissions at EU level will not be directly affected by the ban unless allowances are cancelled or transferred to the market stability reserve in the same context.’; Now I do not know whether this is happening or whether Finland is again hitting its own ankle in the front row. It is further stated that ‘from a climate perspective that is not significant,it can be reduced by the fact that coal has been estimated to bereplaced mainly by In this respect, it is still recognised that ‘incalculatively, the combustion of So this isn't pure action. As regards these effects of the ban, it is further stated that ‘due mainly to the economic impact, the problems of earlyinvestment and the constitutional legal aspects of the case, the proposal has concluded that it It would have been even easier if the EUR 90 million had been added five years and left uncommitted to Helsinki and Vaasa. I find that completely incomprehensible. I understand that Mr Adlercreutz defends a gift of this kind for Vaasa in advance and that then the people of Helsinki want this from the state, but I do not see it as wise. As far as innovation is concerned, these innovations will certainly take place without this Prohibition. We don't need it. It's a good thing they make them all the time. I am not quite sure whether the German Federal Government is still supporting Germany's own burning of coal and lignite, but it is not long before billions of dollars each year were supporting the burning of its own coal, and what the recent news is telling us now is that Germany is not giving it up very quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u111	Irade the Talman! The discussion would like to compare Finland and other countries and suggest that Finland would be a model student in these matters. It is true that much has been done here, but we have, for example, nearly 100% higher climate emissions than Sweden and considerably higher than India or other developing countries. Electricity price: Definitely the cheapest way to produce and build new power today in the Nordic countries is wind power. Of course, there are other challenges, but it is definitely the cheapest way, much cheaper than coal power. If you believe in a market economy, it is worth considering whether, as a country itself, you should invest in coal-power technology or perhaps in clean energy-production solutions, and I do not think you will find a capitalist in this world who would think that, in this situation, you should invest in coal-power, but in these clean solutions. If, then, we talk about equality and fairness in a larger picture, in that perspective, Finland is now in favour of extending emissions trading to include EU emissions trading in the remaining emission quota in order to lead to real emission reductions and extending it to the greatest extent possible in terms of geographical coverage of non-European regions. Here too, the EU is the solution. The fact that the EU exists, that the EU has a united will and that the EU has a climate policy is a prerequisite for reaching a point here. Without the EU — if there were 27 separate countries of our own — the challenge would be much bigger, but now there is some sort of solution in sight.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u112	Mr President! Yes, Mr Adlercreutz, the United States and Europe together have the same emissions as China, and China is building new coal-fired power stations, yes, but it is great that we agree with wind power, for example. This kind of continuous support for production is strictly contrary to the basic Finns' line, which means that wind power must operate on a market-based basis. And then there was this... [Riitta Myller’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u117	Mr President! I am somewhat alien to such proposals, which, as it were, go on ideological grounds to ban something, now fuel in this case, and move away from the researched knowledge towards such ideological fanaticism. As such, at least I am neither in favour nor against the use of coal. If its use is appropriate and economic, it may be used, if it is not, then it will not be used. However, now that there seems to be these pressures on the ban on various fuels, it further underscores the need for additional nuclear power. Nuclear power will be increasingly needed in the future. I have said all my life that this is the case, and it now sounds like even the European Commission has come to my attention on this issue, on the basis of recent news. So perhaps it is possible to make sense in these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u118	Mr President! It is very good that Minister of the Environment, Mr Tiilikainen, came to this place. I was just about to refer to this part of the climate position of the eight parliamentary parties negotiated under his leadership, which, in paragraph 8, reads: ‘In Finland, electricity and heat production accounts for nearly zero emissions by the end of the 2030s, taking into account the security of supply and supply aspects. “ In practice, this means that we also have to do with peat what we do with coal in this way, which is now on our table. In my opinion, the best view of how coal can be replaced in Helsinki, for example, has been taken by the Smart Energy Transition project of Aalto University, which, according to the vision presented by it, would have only a small share of the coal substitute system, only to the extent that other elements of the system are not sufficient. For example, on the hardest days of frosting, biocracks would be burned, but in other respects the system would be based partly on solar heat, partly on solar power, to a very large extent on large heat pumps powered by wind power, partly by the sea, partly by waste heat from various industrial and other processes and, in addition to these, also on heat storages, which are also the most economically advantageous way to preserve solar and wind power when they are produced more than necessary. Mr President! A few comments on what is happening in the rest of the world: firstly, the increase in emissions from India has been referred to. Well, that's true, but still Indian emissions per capita are about a fifth of what Finns emit per capita. Last year, India achieved the target of 20 gigawatts of PV for 2022 — i.e. 1000 megawatts — and five times the target of 100 gigawatts of 2022. In Germany, for its part, the Commission is preparing to give up coal. The aim is that Germany's emissions will be slightly more than 60% lower in 2030 compared to 90 levels, and it is primarily the task of this Commission to consider how to organise jobs for those people whose former jobs go due to this decarbonisation. And lastly, as a foreign news story like this, I quote Forbes, who told me that in all G20 countries renewable energy is currently available.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u119	Mr President! I am very pleased that this Government's proposal to ban the use of coal for energy purposes has now moved forward, as this shows that Finland is a country of opportunity. We really have a lot of opportunities to develop all things forward, and now we have to think about how we can get new forms of action going. New forms of energy: in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we have been able to listen to a number of experts, all of which could be, and I am particularly enthusiastic about what the University of Lappeenranta has said about how we can develop energy forms. Just now I came from a visit to North Transport, and we went there to drive an electric bus. Well, it will take time for those electric cars to be realistic and sensible throughout Finland, but it is good that this side has been developed further. We've got it. In Lapland, it may take time before our cars are electric cars, which means we have to think about many other options before that, and it must be possible to use existing internal combustion engines for a very long time. Finland has a lot of wood and other growing energy. By developing these, we will certainly make new forms of energy from them, and the peat is not so bad after all, because it is also a renewable form of energy. Although it has been politically decided in Finland that it is not renewable, it is renewable. It'll take a little more time, but still. But coal is released into the air, and in all coal matters we must be very careful about how to deal with them. We get solar energy, little wind power, and then other new patterns that we can develop. Let us wait for these to move forward, and the really good thing is that we can now stop using coal and start using domestic know-how.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u120	Madam President! Of course, the use of coal and other fossil fuels may continue to be economic in the short-term formula for a long time to come, but, as we already know, there is no doubt that postponing the inevitable measures to combat climate change will become more and more expensive for society as a whole than actively pursuing clean and renewable energy production and carbon neutrality. Mr President! These speeches are somewhat surprising that clean air, water and nature are important to all the parties we represent in this Chamber if, on the other hand, we have political groups that refuse to do any tightening up of climate action, any tightening of environmental measures if they threaten any economic and productive objectives. That's how the equation doesn't work. Then the climate becomes polluted, then the clean nature weakens and no goals can be kept even at its present level. It's just the way it is. Fortunately, there is a broad consensus in this Chamber that the emission reduction targets must be tightened, and in this respect the government's legislative proposal to ban the use of coal is quite correct and straightforward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u121	Madam President! With reference to what has just been said, we must be surprised at the brightness of the Greens. You're going to teach us how to get people out there to give up coal when it's in your own hands and in this city's council. It has not come to mind, to the Greens, that when you are the leader of the Council Presidency in this city, if you would start making decisions that would have been your own decision. What kind of help do you have to bring to this Parliament when you have that key in your hands every minute? Even if at the next council meeting, if you make a decision, that's when it's gonna happen. That's what this municipal policy is like, the functioning of the municipal law. The second thing, then, is this talk about the environment in general. I read in today’s newspapers — and in the last week there were many with pictures — when you have taught us a great deal so that the wastewater must be handled carefully and not allowed into the Baltic Sea when these Ilomants’ grandmothers’ toilet waters seem to be a threat to the Baltic Sea, and at the same time in this town you are currently dumping tens of thousands of cubes of very dirty snow, which contains dog waste, a terrible amount of garbage, oily waste, directly into the Gulf of Finland. Does not your ears ever touch when you are telling us how to live in the countryside, give up peat, and heat up our house with something else? But in any case, you do it yourself and in this town you watch it when huge amounts of crap and dirt are driven directly into the Gulf of Finland, and then you speak with clear eyes here that the world must be saved. Since I was a little boy, I have learned that if you start to improve the world, you should start from your own circle, then you usually get the best result. You don't want to go to the neighbor's house and judge the fact that it's untidy. You might want to take a look at your own office first. I know that this truth may sting a little bit, but for me the little one is getting tired of this lesson of yours for us as to how others should live. As long as you're there on the top floor of an apartment building, a house heated with coal is nice and money comes from the government, it's going to be great. At the same time, you can, of course, resist nuclear power, deforestation, peat use and many other things when it does not collapse into your own purse. I'd like to see that brightening up your own shield starts with those jobs and not with the good speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u122	I give the floor to Mrs Halmemenpää and then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u123	Madam President! After all, there is national legislation in this Chamber, not just the City of Helsinki or Tuupovaara alone, or any other legislation relating to a locality or a municipality. I noticed that there are currently no municipal decision-makers in Helsinki present in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u126	Minister's response, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u127	Mr President! It is nice to listen to a lively debate on the legislation on the cessation of coal combustion. I think this is the case when people have been talking about ending coal use in Finland since about 95, which means that there is a lot of talk, and I am really glad that the government has now taken action and that Parliament has dealt with the law. 1.5.2029 Coal combustion in Finland will therefore cease. Then, on the sidelines, it is the idea that those cities that are able to give up coal in the past and want to act according to an accelerated timetable can then be supported through energy subsidies. Time and time again, when energy is discussed, it is sweetly mixed up with electricity and heat. Now we already have 80% non-emissions electricity generation in Finland — almost 50 renewables, just over 30 nuclear power — and it is generally thought that it is easy to convert electricity into zero emissions compared to heating and transport. It is precisely because of heat that these coal-fired power plants and many other combustion-based power plants have been run in Finland, because that is what we simply need in our homes. The question of how to now replace, for example, Helsinki, which is now the most dependent on coal: The first thing, of course, is that the various waste heats and geothermal energy from industry and services will provide some certainty, but incineration cannot be completely stopped in the near future, but some coal will certainly also be replaced by renewable fuels. Of course, the extent to which Helen will have to resolve the matter. In Finland, we have more by-products from the forest industry and by-products from forest management than we are currently using. This is where Mr Hassi, the chairman of the committee, flashed the storage of heat. So heat storage is a good thing, but let's put it on a little scale: At the moment, heat storage is about enough to compensate for such a daily peak, and now, with energy support, for example, a little bigger heat storage is being built in Mustikkamaa, and it is perhaps talking about balancing weekly peaks, but it is also very important, because these peaks are usually produced with oil, for example, so that this development of the warehouse will replace the oil that is needed for high consumption and that it will be possible to reduce the second fossil. It's still a reasonable distance. Hopefully the day will come when we will have so much wind energy available, for example, and it will be so affordable that the warehouse can then be heated in the wind. Time will tell. Now that we finally put an end to the coal, there has been a different kind of emergency that we must start denying one thing or another. What is the difference between coal and peat, I repeat once again, if the President allows me not to make the presentation: decarbonisation requires compensatory investment, because there is not much else in coal dust boilers to produce that heat. On the other hand, the use of peat in practice is always mixed with wood chips at the moment, and if emissions trading in the EU is tightened, as this common policy of the parliamentary parties requires, then the rising price of the allowance will have an effect in such a way that local heating plants will prefer to put wood chips rather than peat, i.e. peat will gradually decrease. With regard to what is the pace, there is no need to deny it. Emissions trading as an effective instrument of control will reduce the use of peat and will be replaced by renewable wood. At the same time, this regional economic strength is maintained throughout Finland, as domestic, local energy sources can generate heat. All in all, thank you very much to Parliament. This has received very unanimous support, and it is always nice to take forward and bring in proposals that enjoy broad support.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u128	Mr President! You never talk too much about the forest and the tree in this room. Now that we have talked about coal, we really have the forest that binds so much coal. Over the past 50 years, Finland and Finns have done a tremendous amount of work, as over the past 50 years, Finland's carbon sequestration has doubled at least because the growth of forests has doubled and the number of trees has actually doubled at least from what it has been in the past. And all of this is that more and more coal is being tied up all the time, so that it doesn’t matter, even though we are warming up the saunas and sometimes heating the cabins with trees and sometimes producing energy and heating with that tree and little peat. By the way, it was all right that the Minister now also raised this issue of peat, that it is a domestic issue, and that is a small addition that we need alongside the tree. Elikka Finland is a whole, Finland's energy issues are a whole. We must not start to think that these things are either—or, indeed, we have been working so hard over the last 50 years to increase this carbon sequestration, that, on a global scale, we have done a huge amount of work for these, and that is why it is really good that we are giving up foreign coal, using it, and that we are focusing more and more on using domestic forms of energy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u129	Mr President! I am not the City of Helsinki's decision maker, I am a Tampere person, but I now say a few facts about the City of Helsinki's decision-making. The City Council of Helsinki decided in December 2015 — long before any of this legislation was in place — on its own initiative that the Hanasaari coal power plant would close in 2024. The initiative for this at the City Council in Helsinki was made by the Councillor and Member of Parliament, Green Emma Kari. When he took that initiative, then at first the attitude of the other parties was such that this is an unrealistic thing, but then gradually the number of supporters increased, and then the matter went through the city council, and excellently so. Indeed, of us who are now present in this Chamber, the only decision-maker for the City of Helsinki is Kimmo Tiilikainen, Deputy Councillor of Helsinki, Minister for the Environment. As far as the replacement of coal is concerned, the Minister is actually responsible for: The Tiilikainen time is much more or less a reference, as I myself tried to refer to this vision of the Smart Energy Transition project, which does not really think that district heating can be achieved without incineration, but the aim is that the proportion of combustion should be as small as possible and that the share of the other parts described, both of which we describe, should be as large as possible. Fortunately, the City of Helsinki also has about ten years ago to think about which parts and the size of these parts come so that substitutes can be found. Similar replacement solutions are also needed in locations where coal is not burned. In my own hometown of Tampere, you need it. After all, natural gas and peat are being burned there and some of the wood chips are being burned today. In other words, I hope that solutions such as the Smart Energy Transition project will spread to large cities at least. And as far as peat is concerned, it was a pleasure to hear that Minister Tiilikainen also admits that this joint statement by the eight parties means, on some timetable, also giving up the use of peat, whether in the form of a law or in some other way, for example through emissions trading or emissions tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u130	Madam President! When we look at this production of domestic energy, we need to remember that we are burning a lot of very wet wood bark, sawdust and wood chips made from different balancing blocks that have not been dried up, and under certain circumstances it is very wet and the peat, as a mixture fuel, is excellent, because it can adjust the moisture so that the correct combustion temperature is achieved in the floating layer boilers, which means that the emissions of particulate matter are virtually zero, and the generation of electricity in the CHP boiler will rise by 5 percentage points higher when the boiler pressure rises above the temperature, and the electricity generation is better. And, indeed, particle emissions are zero in that situation, because it is very high when it burns. And then, from the point of view of boiler technology, when the acidity-base balance between wood and peat is optimal, then the boiler will last for decades longer because it does not corrode the boiler. If you burn nothing but peat or wood, you always do a little disservice to that technique. So why do we Finns not recognise our own opportunities? There are new, excellent uses for peat, such as technical coal. A factory that will start in Ilomants in just over a year will be the first innovation in the world, will open up a whole new technology and industry, and it will also be an innovation that is otherwise climate-friendly. It replaces existing technical coal made from coal and crude oil from the peat in question. So when we look through these different starting points on this issue, it is always worth remembering that what is the overall impact of the end product on the climate, that is, from the point of view of peat it has been a brilliant development in recent years, and more products are always coming. Madam Speaker! Finally, when European botanical gardens, gardens, are cultivated under glass, tomatoes, cucumbers, and so on, we will be able to turn peat into substrates that will be completely unpolluted in the years to come. They do not release a single litre of extra water, nutrients do not escape, and the best thing about it is that the product in question has been used up — one day its use of peat will be reduced, with plant diseases and weeds and so on — and it will then be composted. It can then be used to make lawns, so even after that it is not hazardous waste. Some use such a product in greenhouse cultivation as rock wool, which is a hazardous waste after its cultivation, but when peat is used it is then a great raw material for environmental construction, that is, nothing is wasted, there is not a drop of forest wasted and no nutrients escape. An ideal solution. We're fools if we don't take advantage of this kind of opportunity.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u131	Then again, Minister Tiilikainen, please. Is that enough for two minutes?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Just a few comments. Representative Hoskonen described peat’s benefits as mixed fuel that it could, as it were, produce even wet industrial wood waste, to get a better combustible mixture. So it has this kind of value and probably in those quantities, in small quantities, in such use will be preserved. But now it's good to remember the proportions. When we talk about coal and peat again, last year, peat was used in Finnish energy production in the second year of the year less than half of what a few cities now have in the meaning of coal for heat production. So these aren't even things of the same scale. And just as Mr Hassi has said here, then, for example, through the tightening of emissions trading, that control will come, so that the use of peat will be reduced. For this decision-making in Helsinki. Mr Hassi rightly pointed out that the decision to close the Hanasaari power plant in 2024 was taken in 2015, but still the idea that the second coal boiler, Salmisari, could continue even until 2050 was still in force in Helsinki. And as I recall, it was only in 2017 that the council decided that, well, the closure of Salmisaari until 2035. Well, now this law tells us that that power plant must also be replaced by others in 2029.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u135	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 39/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u136	Madam President! The proposal proposes to amend the law on transport services. The acquisition of the professional qualifications of heavy-duty road transport drivers would be accompanied by an alternative to existing training models based solely on carrying out tests. A basic qualification test would be two-fold and would require a theoretical and practical examination. Changes in the professional qualifications of road transport have been proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2020. However, I think it is important that these are no longer required this year, even though the law cannot be adopted retrospectively. Yesterday I last met two long-term drivers of heavy traffic who, as an alternative to normal driver work, were going to school to learn about heavy traffic, this time a proactive driving. I believe that when both of them have been driving a heavy-duty vehicle for over 40 years, they already have control over these matters. It is good that the government is bringing this proposal to us for a decision, so let us make some sense about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u137	Madam President! This is a government proposal, which is the third stage of the law on transport services. We have dealt with the previous two stages here in the Chamber, and this whole large package of laws has been a long process. Now, in practice, there are technical changes in this third stage so that the whole numbering of the law becomes running. This was something that was noticeable in the two stages, and this has now been addressed. Then the professional qualifications of drivers will also be specifically addressed in this third stage, and that is a good thing. And as Mr Kulmala has already pointed out in his own speech, the acquisition of the professional qualifications of heavy goods vehicles on the road will be accompanied by an alternative to the current training models based solely on carrying out tests. The good thing about this is that this will ease the shortage of drivers. Professional qualifications can be acquired through a wide range of options, and this solves the driver shortage that has been observed in many companies. It is worth noting that when we had a debate on the last two stages of the procedure on transport services in the law, there were very different views in this Chamber, but on this third stage, when I was in the Committee on Transport and Communications, we were able to come up with a unanimous report. That is a good starting point for this. In this context, it was probably the most important debate that continued on the issue of taxi transport, how taxi transport operates at the moment, and there is room for improvement. It's a fact. At this stage, in this particular government proposal, there was a debate on what the taxi driver's test should contain and who has the responsibility of having the local knowledge of the taxi driver. At the moment it is the case that the local knowledge of the taxi driver is an experiment in it as part of the taxi driver's experiment, and now that this government proposal is moving forward, the local knowledge test will go away in practice, but the taxi driver must continue to have the local knowledge of its main area of activity. Local knowledge does not go away, it remains, and the taxi operator will then be responsible for ensuring that the driver will continue to have it. It is a very good thing that it will remain so, because we know that there have been major shortcomings, particularly in this area, at the moment, and this is also the wish of the Taxi Union players to make progress in this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u138	Madam President! Indeed, we are now changing the law on transport services, and this is precisely one third of this big package, involving, among other things, taxi reform and many other things. First of all, really, this professional qualification is shown in that truck transport by means of a professional qualification card. A lot of messages have come from all kinds of courses that have had to be attended. In many cases, the problem has been that the egg teaches the chicken. Of course, I am not talking about young drivers, they certainly need to be taught sparing driving and things like this, but when there are often really experienced drivers who are approaching retirement age, and drivers who certainly know how to travel on the road, then there is a consultant there who teaches them many, many times the same things that have already been learned in practice. In that sense, it is good that this is now going through that experiment. Of course, those courses can also be held if necessary. The second point is, of course, the issue of this taxi transport, the competence there. Indeed, we have now also recorded in that report that there should be local knowledge. The problem has been that there is no station anymore, but, if you think that is the main area of activity, I would have put it there even more strictly now to know the region and the streets and so forth. Here in Helsinki, too, it has happened several times that the driver really does not know where even the Parliament House is. Fortunately, however, it is now recorded here: it is the employer's responsibility that this driver knows these addresses and has that local knowledge. But here I am referring, for example, to the statements that the visually impaired brought to our attention that it is quite difficult for that blind person to print on the navigator those letters from Nordenskiöldinkatu, if the driver does not know how to read or write even in Finnish, let alone how other things, such as this kind of illness, work. In that sense, I think that at some point we will have to go through this and perhaps even correct it during the next government. But here is the problem, of course, that you can sort of perform that local knowledge in another area and then come here to Helsinki to work But in any case, it is good that it is now recorded there anyway and that it is the employer's responsibility that we hope we don't have to go to the Finnish Immigration Service to get a note, that, yes, this guy can speak Finnish even though he can't. Let us hope that people will receive their services properly, also with this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u139	Madam President! I will address this issue, on which Mr Alatalo has already spoken. This is the third stage of the traffic cycle. In two previous stages, I have spoken and I think it is quite logical to use the third. I have been extremely disappointed in this amendment to the taxi law in the past — there are a lot of good things in the traffic cycle, I am not saying — but I would like to underline this point of amendment to the taxi law, which is now reflected in the different aspects of this section of the car, even in stage three, and precisely this section on local knowledge, which is now being wiped out as a claim. It's there as a wish, but no longer as a claim. Many of us who use taxis — people who use taxis or have reduced mobility in their activities or activities, visually impaired people — are very dependent on taxis, and to this day we have been able to rely on taxis in Finland. I think it's a lot harder to trust a cab than to trust politicians in the country. [Laughter] Such a GPS-based system certainly brings flexibility to taxi traffic, makes it easier for a taxi driver to work, but if the taxi driver's only knowledge of the environment is based on that GPS system, we are really at a low level of service. If there is a problem with the GPS system or if a visually impaired person, as Mr Alatalo mentioned there, cannot point the finger at the particular place the car would like to reach, then there is a situation where you can no longer talk about the Finnish taxi that citizens have been able to trust.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u140	Madam President! To the laudable speech by Mr Kari, I would like to say that the demand for local knowledge was not removed in this government proposal at a time when we decided to do so. When the Committee on Transport and Communications dealt with this matter, we specifically added to the government proposal that the taxi driver should still have that local knowledge. That local knowledge test will go away from that experiment, but that local knowledge claim will remain there. In order to ensure this, the committee sets out in a detailed explanatory statement that Article 151(3) of the Transport Services Act adds the local knowledge required of the driver, i.e. that it is now also a matter in the articles from now on, and that is also the responsibility of the entrepreneur and the operators.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u141	Madam President! In practice, however, the bar is now dropped to the level of getting over the bar. In addition to what I said earlier, there is virtually no one to monitor the work of these taxi drivers — or I am sure they can still be called taxi drivers. When it comes to the fact that no one is following the travel of the services, very critical services, the people around them and the provision of the services they are offered, it can be said that we have thousands or tens of thousands of people who use taxis for very important things in Finland — people who go to the hospital, the visually impaired, the elderly, the disadvantaged — for whom the use of taxi services is daily and necessary, at a significantly lower quality level of service than during the time before the start of this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u142	Let us now go to the list of speakers, but here is the short list so that everyone can say it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u143	Mr President! We are living in an era of enormous change. Indeed, we are now moving from a regulatory society to an increasingly liberal society. It has been said all the time during this parliamentary term that there are huge changes in the social and regional sectors, but the Committee on Transport and Communications and the ministry have taken a huge step forward, that is to say that a very large, wide-ranging package of legislative changes has been prepared in that ministry, which we have discussed during this parliamentary term, and it has already been quite completed. This law on transport services, as it was originally called, was a very large entity. There were very many centimetres of paper in it, which we have dealt with in committee during this parliamentary term. There have indeed been three separate legislative packages that we have been working on, and we have been thinking about these issues. There has been a huge number of things, which has led to certain mistakes being made. No one can imagine that such a big whole is being carried out flawlessly, but we have managed to get it through a major phase of transformation so that we can move forward in these circles. There will probably be a number of minor corrections in the next parliamentary term, but it is always the case in all legislation that when the practice begins to appear, then things will be changed accordingly. In all these years, the issue of taxicabs has certainly been the most debated since this law on transport services has been discussed. Indeed, it could have been done and done differently, but it has come to this. Just now this local knowledge was discussed, which was now in this law, which was last discussed, such perhaps the most visible and discussed section, whether it will be easier or not. In the past, it was enough that he had completed a local knowledge in Kuusamo and was then allowed to work in Helsinki. The situation is actually better now that now, for example, a Helsinki-based supervisor can really demand that it be a local knowledge in Helsinki and not in Kuusamo. Now, in this law, I myself paid the most attention to this article — of course, as a lawyer, you can pay attention to the articles. Yes, before we started working, it was a very difficult and complicated matter of this kind, and it should have already been dealt with in the first phase of the law on transport services. Well, luckily, we got it through phase three. Although I am still not entirely satisfied with the whole, this is what we have achieved during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u144	Mr President! With regard to this reform of the taxi law, I have said before that when you went to fix something that is not broken, now you get to fix something that is broken right behind you. Good things can no longer be done, and now we are working on this worthless law for years to come, when it is quite difficult to come back and there is enough to heal. The previous speakers well described this third stage in the Committee on Transport and Communications. A number of organisations called for local knowledge to be taken into account in some way, and now there is little sense in this area of the law, even in the section and not just in the explanatory statement, which, as we know, will ultimately determine, so that such a concept of local knowledge can still be invoked at all. For that cooperation, thank you also to the representatives of the government parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u145	Mr President! In addition to the visually impaired, I'm worried about taxi services for people with memory problems. During all these changes, in the role of Chairman of the Memory Union, I have also raised this concern here in Parliament, and this concern has certainly not diminished at all. Memory sufferers have previously been able to rely on the good service of taxis, but now I have received a lot of concerns about the increased insecurity and the lack of certainty as to whether the taxi driver can help the memory sufferer in the right way and whether he can take him directly to the place where the purpose is to take him, because the memory sufferer may not know — and of course he does not have to — how to control him. The memory sufferer should be confident that the driver knows reliably the routes and knows how to assist and help in the right way, and now this is no longer the case. So I fully agree with the previous speaker that something very well-functioning has now been broken. The memory union was very pleased with the taxi services in the past, but at the moment this is no longer the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u146	Madam President! This large package of laws draws attention, as has also been noted in this debate, to these taxi issues and the taxi service, which is what it is. It is extremely important that drivers there know what they are doing, take into account what they are carrying, no matter what kind of people they may be. And, in particular, that expert consultation of the Committee on Transport and Communications clearly highlighted the fact that various organisations for the disabled made it clear that, whether they are visually impaired or memory-impaired, they should take into account the kind of service they receive and that people with reduced mobility also need the appropriate service. It is also, of course, noted in this bill. Its service must continue to be good in the future. There has now been a debate about the taxi driver’s tests, what the taxi driver’s test should be, and that is what Traficom defines. Traficom has defined what is required for that test. Now, for example, the various trade unions, the Taxi Federation and the Automobile School Association, and the wish of other operators to have the taxi driver test removed specifically from the local knowledge test, but that local knowledge must continue to exist in the future for the taxi driver. According to these, such as the Autoschool Association, the removal of the local knowledge test is a good thing. It has not been required in the past, for example, in the job of a package driver or lorry driver, or in emergency care or rescue operations or courier services, for example, this test has not been required. It's only been for taxi drivers. They also feel that this improves the shortage of labour, which means that there is more labour available. In the committee's deliberations, we specifically stressed local knowledge in the main area of activity — the main area of activity, that is to say, the taxi drivers who mainly operate here in the Helsinki region, for example in the capital region, must have that local knowledge in this area and it must also be monitored. It has to be, and a responsible taxi company also teaches what these things require, and there is control over it. It has also been stated quite clearly here in the text that the obligation to ensure this local knowledge lies with the holder of an authorisation for passenger transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u147	Mr President! It has even been suggested from the opposition that the law is completely invalid. That is certainly not the case. There is a huge number of such things that have actually had to be corrected for today. We live in 2019, so we were forced to change things to meet today's wishes and needs, and it has been done. There are a few points that are certainly not in the best way, but I think that, in view of what is best technology and know-how, it has reached that point. Now for the cabbies. In this Chamber, during the preparation of this law, there has been a great deal of disrespect for them. Now, however, we have to say that the majority of Finnish taxi drivers are indeed professionals and their services are good. I've had some really nice conversations with taximen myself. I have talked to them very much about things and I have come to the conclusion that, in view of the salary they receive, they will do their job very well. Public information is that there is a real shortage of employees in the taxi sector, especially here in the urban area. The lack of employees is precisely because the salary is not very much in this as a whole. As far as local knowledge is concerned, the fact that the supervisors are really monitoring local knowledge very much forward, and yes, it is an honour for all companies to take care of things well. There have been many problems at this stage of transformation, but I believe and hope that in a year's time the situation will have gone a long way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u148	Mr President! I quite agree that there are a lot of good things in this overall package, but the few points, the few points, are worrying about people with disabilities and those who need a lot of help. That is why we cannot ignore these by saying that there is a lot of good in there, because they must be addressed, because these are important for the quality and equality of services, so that disabled people will dare to continue to use these taxi services. I agree with that, too, that the majority of taxi drivers are top professionals and experts, but if one of the taxi drivers who does not do the job well, the one who is mentally ill or visually impaired or in need of a lot of help happens to him or her, then he may no longer dare to use these services and not be able to trust that he or she will receive these good and high-quality services in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u149	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 40/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u150	Madam President! There was a debate on the amendment of the Act on Transport Services and so is the subject of discussion here, but it is a somewhat different matter. It is now precisely a question of this government proposal proposing to introduce national provisions complementary to the EU port services regulation, and it obliges Member States to provide for an authority dealing with complaints concerning the application of the Regulation, as well as penalties and appeals for infringements of the Regulation. This government proposal was in the Committee on Transport and Communications and the report is unanimous. There was a debate there, and the experts disagreed somewhat, but there was unanimous agreement on the government's proposal. What the experts disagreed with was this port services regulation, to which it applies. It shall apply to the provision of port services in port areas or on waterways leading to a port. The regulation is suitable for maritime ports within the TEN-T trans-European transport network, of which there are a total of 16 in Finland. The question was that the Port Union — which is in practice an actor in these ports and their member organisations and members there — would have liked the EU port services regulation to have become a supervisory authority under the Competition and Consumer Protection Agency, i.e. the KKV, when this government proposal proposes that Traficom be the supervisor. And yes, after extensive consultation, the Committee on Transport and Communications came to the conclusion that it is a good thing that it is Traficom. They're monitoring things like that elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u151	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u152	Mr President! I was unable to take the floor at first reading of this bill, so I now wanted to say a few words about digital services, because I have been so caught up with this issue in the Committee on the Future, among other things. This bill is good and worthy of support, and the committee has done a good job in its report in assessing the law. However, I would now like to remind you that we have almost a million citizens who cannot, can or can not use digital services. There are people of all ages in this group. We often have a misconception about young people's digital skills. Young people do well in social media, but many may find it difficult to handle their affairs online. For example, filling out different forms can be difficult for them, and this can easily lead to the exclusion of young people. As the committee states in its report, despite the development of digital services, services must continue to be produced in a diverse way, for example by face to face and by telephone. Because there will always be people in Finland who are unable or unable to be or want to be around digital services. For example, at the moment and for a long time in the near future, we have many elderly people beyond the reach of digital services. According to Statistics Finland, 88 per cent of Finns aged 16 to 89 use the Internet. However, it should be noted that 75% of people aged 65 to 75 and only 37% of those aged 75 to 89 use the Internet. Only 28 per cent of people aged 37 to 89 used e-mail and 30 per cent used online banking. According to Statistics Finland's 2017 survey, the number of elderly people aged 65 to 74 sending the official form online was only 30 per cent and that of those aged 75 to 89 10 per cent. So our elderly people are still unable to use digital services as well as is often thought or imagined. Part of the reason is that these services are not accessible and accessible to them, and it is therefore positive that the committee has also taken a position on the accessibility of digital services. We will probably have to come back to this once the Accessibility Directive comes into force. On the other hand, being outside digital services for the elderly is due to the lack of adequate education and guidance for the use of digital services for the elderly. A barrier to the use of digital services may also be the cost of equipment, software and use. If we want to increase the number of digital citizens, society must ensure that all citizens have equal access to equipment, the required information systems and network connections, and learn how to use them and how to pay for them. Mr President! In terms of equality, the problem at the moment is that face-to-face services are becoming very expensive. In banking services, for example, paying a bill is prohibitively expensive. As the service network narrows, access to services is also difficult and incurs extra costs. This threatens to displace some of the elderly from the full-scale role of society. It is important that older people who use and need social and health care services are not all skilled and active users of online services and that in the future, the provision of social services is increasingly being sought through distance services. Valvira has stated in 2015 that the use of remote services always requires informed consent and that the services must be suitable for remote services. Valvira has also pointed out that the person being treated must always be provided with an opportunity to receive a personal visit. Mr President! The aim of the next government must be to close the digital divide. This requires all areas of society's policies, such as libraries, free education, schools, youth work, adult education and services for the elderly. The achievement of this objective can be ensured through phenomenon-based budgeting. This means pooling the resources needed to achieve the objective and creating a clear management system. Now the resources are being allocated to too many people and there is no clear management needed to implement the matter, and that is why this issue has not progressed in the desired way. We still have a lot of work to do on this. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u153	Mr President! Children often laugh that Mom, you don't understand and know how to do that, and I think I know how to do digital services and do all these things. But the truth is that children are learning new things all the time, the older generation is not doing well with them, and I will then go to my own mother to help in all these things. Electronic services are also an opportunity for us people in the more remote regions, because today, thanks to these electronic services, we are able to do all the work throughout Finland, all over Finland, as long as the cables only work and everything else, but they have already been quite well managed everywhere in Finland. The wireless ones are now doing not with the best possible power, but in a way. The main problem, however, is dealing with the elderly, when even in urban areas, especially in those more remote areas, there are no more services and even there are no people who these older people can personally come to ask for help and advice. One example is the case where an older man came to me in our village and said, ‘ Will you take care of this for me? ’ I said, well, of course I can handle this, but he didn't have any online identifications. I then called the bank the next day so that we could deal with this matter in such a way that you would give me the symbols that I would manage this older man's affairs, and from there it was said that for goodness sake, this man is not under lobbying or anything like that, so that you are not allowed to handle this man's affairs, and this man himself was then unable, because of his age, to take advantage of and control of these things. So the situation was completely impossible, and now this older man, then, in the more remote area where he lives, cannot have access to these services in any way. It's a terrible situation. However, what this will mean is not taken into account in the outermost regions. Digitalisation and electronic services are developing in every sector. I myself have been in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to see these things now during this parliamentary term. There, too, we have had some new legislative proposals on how these electronic services will evolve. Good, we are developing ahead, but we are indeed aware that older people cannot survive without personal help.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u154	Mr President! It is true that the so-called digital loss is more common among older people. Of course, we also have very good elderly people, which means that we can never generalise this, but on the other hand we also have some kind of illusion when we think that all young people can use digital services. So I think that most of the young people, almost all of them, are able to chat there in social media and chat with friends, but the fact that they are not able to do official things on the Internet, for example, has come to light in the survey. For example, filling out some form of employment service or Kela form is a problem for a surprising number of young people. So we have a slight illusion about this, and that is why we have to take this into account, because it is true that if you cannot be young in the digital world in the future, you will be excluded from society very quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-12-ps-157.u155	Mr President! Indeed, thank you to Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen for bringing up the situation of young people, because we are now in the electronic online era of this digitalisation, in fact, the fact that we have a large number of young people falling off the sled just because they are not able to do so. They may have taken an interest in machines and all other devices, but they are not so interested in reading it or being on the computer. Indeed, not all youths are at the computer all the time. Perhaps our children speak English well, develop very well in English and so, but other young people are increasingly marginalised because they do not master English. Many services, including electronic services, are already in English today, but how do these young people, who then do not live there in the online world: they are fallers. Today, development takes place on the terms of these faster and better performing people everywhere. In other words, it is a good thing that this position of weaker young people is now being taken into account, and I am sure that in the future it should be taken more into account, because not one young person should fall off the sled.
