ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-13-ps-31.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-13-ps-31.u2	Mr President! Thank you for your interesting report to the Data Protection Supervisor. In the early papers of this report, it is well stated that ‘Data protectionis a success factor for Finland:for individuals it means better protection of personal data and the possibility of managing their own data, a competitive advantage for companies When I read it, I thought of two themes that I would have liked to hear a little more from the Data Protection Ombudsman, but since he is not here, I hope that these issues will be clarified in committee. Firstly, the entry into force of the Data Protection Regulation last spring was a major change. It is based on the right objectives, but it has been perceived as hampering cooperation between different authorities in everyday life, and therefore even the overall assistance of people who need help, for example, has been prevented, or at least experienced. I have been told that information cannot be given to another authority even if it was a customer's permission to provide information, and I would have liked to ask the Data Protection Supervisor if he had received such a message and whether this data protection regulation was interpreted too strictly if it prevented people from being helped. Secondly, I would like to say a few words about the collection of genetic data and related data protection issues. In Finland, we have strongly emphasised in recent years that the use of social and health information in research and innovation activities should be made easier. Finland would have a great opportunity here to create new growth because we have high-quality information resources, good systems, the opportunity to work effectively and people trust research. A good starting point has been the fact that a population with a particularly favourable genetic heritage is available as a small country in Finland. At the same time, it has been considered necessary to act quickly, as other countries are also in the race for international research and innovation inputs. However, as I understand it, the new EU data protection legislation puts obstacles in the way of extensive data collection. Its philosophy of departure is that once the knowledge is so valuable, it would be better to collect it with caution and a little bit at a time, clearly informing and defining the purposes in advance. At the same time, awareness of the importance of data protection has increased as scandals have been revealed around the world about data protection breaches and the lax level of data protection. In particular, with regard to genetic data, snow snowed in Iceland due to the failure of the biobank and the problems encountered in Scotland. Serious concerns have arisen as to whether genetic information can be anonymised with certainty, i.e. that it is impossible to identify the samplers. On the other hand, it should also be asked whether there is a risk that this information will be disseminated to those to whom it is not intended. Genetic knowledge is valuable and sensitive health information that is of great interest to a wide range of actors, even criminals, and therefore must not fall into the wrong hands. Mr President! I believe that the so-called secondary law adopted at the end of the last period was an example of the rest-of-the-life thinking of data collection in the social welfare and health services, which was intended to help the collection of social and health data and, above all, to make it more accessible from one door to another for international use. [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-13-ps-31.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-13-ps-31.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-13-ps-31.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-13-ps-31.u6	Madam President! With great interest, I read that report on the activities of the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman. It's firm and clear. As Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen has just described these challenges and development needs, many topical issues will be raised. After all, we all know what digitalisation has meant and means, that the data of our citizens and communities and businesses are also in the most diverse registers, and that is why this issue is becoming increasingly topical. And this issue of developing the mobility of information, for example in social and health services, is particularly topical and necessary. We agreed on a record in the Government Programme that we would promote flexible and wide-ranging exploitation of social data while at the same time ensuring a high level of data protection. This is to be hoped that we can achieve this as quickly as possible. From the citizen’s point of view, it is particularly important that people can feel that ‘my information is secure and I can rely on it,including the authorities’s knowledge of know-how security’. The role of the Office of the Data Protection Supervisor is to safeguard the rights of the citizen in the processing of personal data, and it is therefore of particular importance that the Office has the necessary and sufficient resources for this important work. This report points out that the number of staff has been too low, but it has now been corrected, which is a very good thing. We were on our way to Berlin in the Committee on Transport and Communications and the fact that we in Finland are not only the leading countries in the development of digital services, so we must also be among the leading countries in the development and improvement of data protection, because we go so far ahead in many areas, and that is why it is particularly important that we also have the resources of the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman. I too would have liked to have asked the Data Protection Supervisor some questions here, for example in relation to this information. I visited the new website of the office and said it was well-functioning, and I hope that the Office's resources for information will also be sufficient, because in this time we need information for citizens on how they can also ensure that their own data protection is implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-13-ps-31.u7	They have asked why the Data Protection Ombudsman is not here. Only in limited cases, in certain cases, can an outsider be present in the Chamber. The Data Protection Ombudsman is not one of these, which means that he cannot be here during the sitting, but he may be consulted in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-13-ps-31.u8	Madam President! Data protection is of greater interest to citizens than ever, and people often contact me and ask if my personal data and data protection have been treated correctly. It is just as Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen said in his speech that the secondary legislation was very challenging in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. I was also a member of the committee myself during the last period as well as this period, and the Committee on Social Affairs really did intervene in a number of points, and the law was greatly improved in committee. I must say that I am surprised at the quality of the legislation that we had in the last period: we still had to correct so much of the proposal. But I really hope that there are not too many loopholes that we may not have noticed, that is, we are talking about important issues. Mr President! Customer and patient information is particularly important in social and health care services, and when we are about to undergo a social welfare reform and a lot of different new legislation, I think it is important that we keep our personal data close and that we pay attention to data protection. I myself contacted the Data Protection Officer by e-mail and found that it was a good way to approach, and there will be an answer. The person approached me with a simple question: I had to cancel the doctor’s appointment and called the clinic and there was a recording that was asked to dictate the identity, identity, names and subject, the reason for the doctor’s withdrawal of the time. The person was worried that what the hell, I'm putting my information on the tape, how they're handled. And then I contacted him and asked him if this could be done. Well, yes, we can. But it is very important that people know what their data is used for and who, for example, and how long such a tape may be listened to. Well, the idea is that the recording must be destroyed very quickly and can only be listened to by a certain person. When a person is sick, he is generally at his weakest point and does not understand what all information is asked and where it is handled. It is very important that hospital, health centres, pharmacies, where you visit and people tell their business, data confidentiality and information security are preserved and personal data are also kept. I still believe that this is a grass-roots issue which must also be addressed in future legislation, especially in the event of war. We also have Abbots and others here in the capital region, so it is very important to develop electronic services, how information travels there and whether everything is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-13-ps-31.u9	Madam President! Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen gave an excellent first speech, and on the other hand he took the positive side of this matter and he also had a great deal of concern about it, thank you for that. This excellent activity report contains good comments on, among other things, a positive credit register and a few other issues. On the one hand, access to information, on the other hand, is a question which should work well again on many points and, on the other hand, as the Data Protection Officer, Mr Aarnio, has said, much depends on the way in which these matters are brought into our national legislation and the way in which the interpretation of the law will eventually take place. We have had a debate in Finland, for example, about whether this should lead to the removal of people's names in the staircases of blocks of flats. In this regard, the Data Protection Supervisor has stated that this is not the case, but, on the other hand, on a matter as simple as the lists of saunas, he has stated that it is a typical question of interpretation, and he says that this needs to be clarified further. In other words, what I am actually saying is that it is a matter of concern that this good thing in itself would not lead to quite absurd interpretations. One example, for example, is that we have had decades of tradition of taking school photos in schools, and now in Sweden, thanks to this corresponding EU data protection reform, many schools have had to stop these school descriptions, i.e. no more school shoots — they are voluntary in Finland. Personally, I would like us not to have this interpretation in a very extreme way, but to use that famous common sense in this type of situation. For example, when my own child’s school was in athletic competitions, the results were no longer allowed to be displayed on the school’s wall but were in the file and had to be visited. In other words, the file was somehow more acceptable than the fact that, according to decades of tradition, those results were there on the wall and the children could have looked at them — I never got on those lists myself, I was so bad at exercise and sports, and that didn’t hurt me at the time, and I don’t think it would work this way today. I hope that this kind of use of common sense will continue to be accepted and permitted in schools, day-care centres and others, but that at the same time these security issues are taken care of, for example, by Mrs Juvonen in an excellent way and also by Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen in her own speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-13-ps-31.u10	Mr President! An increasing proportion of healthcare patient data is stored in national systems, which is of course practical and useful in many ways. In recent years, the legislation on health data has been very much developed and efforts have also been made to ensure that information security is maintained and control is sufficiently stringent. However, I raise the concern that experience shows the vulnerability of information security, i.e. it may also leak accidentally, may leak due to a human error, as we have seen in Finland, for example, in one of the cases of THL. It is also known from abroad that in an anonymous Tor network, for example, medical reports from hospitals on the west coast of the United States may have been purchased for $20,000 apiece. Such data alone would be worth about $20 billion. Professor Lasse Lehtonen has drawn attention to this and found that there is a criminal interest in medical records in Finland too, and this must be taken seriously. Then I'm gonna raise a completely different point of view. For the national Omakanta service, the age limit of 10 years is respected for showing information to parents. For example, this led me to contact a parent whose child suffers from depression. He considered it a problem that parents themselves would not be able to look at medication information, for example, in the case of a ten - year - old child. Although the ten-year-old is not yet ready to make his own decision on health matters, and not everyone of this age can even make the appointment of a doctor for himself, so I think — and this is not, of course, the decision of the Data Protection Supervisor, but the decision-making of this house — that in my opinion a sensible line should be found in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-13-ps-31.u11	Mr President! There has been a good debate here about this secondary issue, which was discussed and adopted last season, and I myself wanted to take part in this debate when, last season, I was actually a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. I must say that even though the secondary legislation went through last season, there were many of the data protection problems that I was left with, such as the fact that risk management had been dealt with very poorly in the preparation of this law. Similarly, I was left with the question of anonymisation; I do not think we have sufficient guarantees that these patient and personal data will not be able to be dismantled at a later stage. I believe that this secondary legislation, now that it has been adopted in this House, should be monitored and also made aware of whether the resources of the supervisory authority are sufficient to monitor this law and whether it might be necessary to supplement it or amend it in the coming years. Indeed, the fact that it was repeatedly supplemented in the course of the deliberations of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and I was completely obscured by whether anyone in this house could actually trust that law or know what would come of it in the end. It may have been the most difficult law in my parliamentary career, the most challenging law, which I myself have been following in Parliament. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-13-ps-31.u12	Mr President! Data protection is for the good of all of us. I myself have always been involved in areas where data protection has been of great importance and has been very precise about how it should be respected. I am absolutely in favour of data protection and I hope that Finland will remain such a model country. But there has also been such, precisely because of the interpretation, that there are false understandings of what is in data protection. On the other hand, although we always say that no law prevents us from helping, when I have had a lot of discussions with the Data Protection Supervisor, we also have wrong understanding of what needs to be followed and what does not. Let me take an example where we need that information: the exclusion of young people. We specifically need a multiprofessional team for the best of young people, and, in the worst case scenario, I cannot provide that information when data protection prevents it. When that information does not pass enough between these authorities, how can we think that we can help marginalised young people or prevent exclusion? And that is why I would like us to have more discussion. When I was Minister of the Interior, I had this kind of conversation with the Data Protection Officer when we had people who were in forced care, for example, and when they got out: how did that information move and how, for example, how would health care staff be able to provide information to the police in some circumstances if they were dangerous to themselves or to others? These are issues that should be considered a little further. The Data Protection Ombudsman told me that there are wrong interpretations here. And I hope that this possibility of multi-professional cooperation will continue, because we need it. Then there are a couple of such lunches to this end, in fact, for Parliament too, that these orientation programmes should have their own lecture on data protection, because there is a lot of such information and you can accidentally say something that is in the field of data protection. And then all these civic contacts, and all of them in relation to credentials and all of them, it would be good to go over them with assistants and representatives, for example. And my second wish is that the Council of Presidents, which I myself represent here, should once again consider who is in this Chamber, because when every single committee hears a delegate — when it is a matter of data protection for all the committees — that is the time of this one delegate, that is to say, could we think that he would still be here and that we could interact with each other?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-13-ps-31.u13	Madam President! This has been the subject of a good debate on the activity report of the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman. The report is indeed interesting to read, and here there are good views. I myself would have liked the Data Protection Supervisor to have been present at this sitting and to have been able to ask him questions. That would be good. Let us hope that this can be done in the future. Of all of us, there must be a lot of different information in different electronic files, and who really knows what's in those files and what they're used for and how the data security of the different files has been arranged. That's a big question. I believe that this issue will continue to be discussed more and more in various installations. Open interfaces are such a big thing, which has also been discussed a lot over the last period. When new laws are enacted, they want to open the interfaces more openly. Different organizations, different connections, different governing bodies, in a way, are able to use the same files and only take some of them. Open interfaces have such a big question about how to ensure that the correct information is used. Indeed, Finland is seen as the leading country of digitalisation and the information society in Europe and why not in the world. As Mr Aittakumpu pointed out in his own speech, when the Committee on Transport and Communications visited Germany this week, the people on the opposite committee specifically asked how data protection was organised in Finland in various laws. They were more interested in it than anyone else. We also have the mobility of information in electronic form, and it is moving very quickly. Of course, cell phones and computers can be monitored very closely and what information is in them overall. I personally believe that we will often come back to this, and hopefully we will also be able to increase the resources of the Data Protection Supervisor, because I believe that their workload will indeed be great in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-13-ps-31.u14	We have a timetable: it is 1.30 p.m. and the meeting of the large committee should begin. There are now four speeches here, Mr Purra, Mr Niemi, Mr Aittakumpu, Mr Tanus, so I ask you if you would like to give them as one minute's answer in this sitting. Otherwise, we will continue this debate next week. If you want to stand up for a minute, it's Purra, Niemi, Aittakumpu, Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-13-ps-31.u15	Mr President! As Mr Heinonen well described, we have heard of housing companies that do not put lists of saunas in the stairwells with the name of the bookers, on the other hand, from sports teams who are afraid to put out printed lists of players. On the other hand, many Swedish schools have stopped their school descriptions and teachers have too much administrative work to do in this respect. Here in Finland, too, all parents who have children in schools or day-care centres fill out these labels every year. I personally hope that the data-recording Data Protection Officer does not have to worry about teaching at the same time, but I am afraid. In Ireland, the real estate office has ordered the guest books to be removed from the tourist destinations it manages. There are many of these excesses. Similarly, high school was fined for violating data protection when it began to monitor students' absence through facial recognition. It received a large fine, even though this was a policy approved by parents and was to facilitate the work of teachers. But thank you for this report by the Data Protection Supervisor. Now I didn't have time to get involved in other things. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-13-ps-31.u16	Mr President! As a Member of Parliament with police background, I would like to draw attention today to the fact that many old police stations — and I myself am a decision-maker in the licensing services — have a large open hall where people sit in the middle of the lobby waiting for their turn. And today, when a citizen applies for an identity card or passport, he or she is asked for very thorough information: relationships, addresses, previous addresses, personal data. The person waiting for his turn can write down this other person’s information at all times, so urgently it would be necessary to get such permit - service homes to these old police stations, from which the information of others does not spread to these other people. This is what I want you to know.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-13-ps-31.u17	Mr President! Mr Räsänen raised an important issue: access to child information from the Omakanta service, and on that point Mr Ronkainen has recently asked a good written question and received a reply from the Minister that the matter will be corrected by next year. It is good that this issue has been addressed and will change so that parents can obtain the information of their underage child if necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-13-ps-31.u18	Madam President! Data protection is very important, but as has been pointed out here by many Members of Parliament, these excesses and not only the splitting of hair but many parts of the splitting up are indeed. I would like to see these matters addressed in this kingdom, because it can actually make it difficult to take care of practical matters, not to a lesser extent in health care there. And just as was mentioned in the previous speech, it is irresponsible if parents cannot know the information of a 10-year-old or older child. I see that it neglects caring for a child. Hopefully there will soon be a change. But one thing that has not yet been raised here: I have concerns that if, for example, the Kanta service records a suspicion of a diagnosis or condition — for example, young health professionals — and it comes marked there as if a diagnosis has been proven, or if something else remains wrong, it is very difficult today for patients, customers, to correct that information. I would like attention to be paid to this too.
