ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 1/2019 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u2	Honored Speaker! The proposal proposes to amend the entry into force of the Act on the Taxation of Business Income, the Income Tax Act, the Act on Group Grants in Taxation, the Act on the Valuation of Assets in Taxation, the Act on Housing Reservations in Taxation and the Act on the Elimination of International Double Taxation. These entry into force provisions would be amended to postpone entry into force 1. from 1 July 2019 to the beginning of 2020. The laws would continue to apply for the first time in the tax year 2020. The laws are intended to enter into force as soon as possible. In order to allow the transfer of entry into force as set out in the proposal, the laws should enter into force before 1 July 2019. If the laws had entered into force on 1 July, there would have been a six-month period before the laws were applied at the turn of the year. This could have led to a lack of clarity with regard to some of the laws, mainly in dealing with old losses, i.e. it was necessary to correct the matter with regard to these six laws. On the basis of the reasons for the government's proposal and the report it has received, the Committee on Finance considers the proposal to be necessary and appropriate and unanimously supports the adoption of the proposal unchanged.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u3	Mr President! We have had a great deal of discussion over the last period about the careful drafting of legislation, and here is one example of the fact that attention is often paid only to content but that the entry into force of the law is unclear, that is, when the regulations are applied. Just as important as the content of the law is when it is applied, because it is good or bad law, it cannot be that there are different gaps. This would have been the case if some of these deductions could have remained in unclear circumstances so that the taxable person could not have deducted them. One thing I would like to talk about here, because we are talking here about corporate taxation, is that we are now in the middle of government negotiations, and I would of course appeal to the parties that, for example, the entrepreneurial reduction is not affected. However, we have a situation where we need to make small and medium-sized enterprises in particular succeed, and their taxes and their continuation and future calculations are based on the current level of taxation. At least the central parliamentary group and the party have promised to take care of this entrepreneurial reduction, and hopefully their weight will be strong here, because, for example, the SDP and President Rinne have presented very strong propaganda against this and have said that this has been a bad law. On the one hand, when you look at statistics, it has, however, been very much directed at SMEs and is now in line with the limited companies and, on the other hand, it has been directed at those who earn less than EUR 55000 a year. I now appeal to the members of the government to make sure that companies remain viable, have the opportunity to employ, and in any case, taxation in such a way that people will continue to have a great deal of money to live. You now have the keys in your hands, and we here are looking forward to what you will bring to us in the field of taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u4	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! After all, this is about taxation in 2020 and, as Mr Meri well pointed out, taxes in 2020 are currently being considered at the Regulation House, and I am sure that in that sense it will be more appropriate to have a debate on what kind of tax structure and tax base will be in Finland in the future. This is the abolition of the income distribution proposal, which will enter into force in 2020. There's been some disturbing messages from the Regent House. [MikkoSavolan intermediate call] That was a moment ago, whether yesterday or the previous day, SAK argued that there would be a significant increase in the collection of new taxes. They brought to the Regent House, among other things, a tightening of the dividend tax on unlisted companies, and they also suggested that additional taxes could be collected, for example, through a cut in the allowance for generational change and the abolition of entrepreneurial deductions. They have also talked about a property tax and even a property tax on bank deposits, shares, corporate wealth, but also on forests and fields. I am absolutely sure that the city centre will succeed in getting the forests and fields out of there. I have complete confidence in that. This is a good pass and an opening to the fact that something in the center of the government negotiations can be prevented.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u26	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Heino for his good speech. This was not propaganda, it was fact. Similarly, I am concerned about the same issues, although on this subject, which is now under discussion, it is good that it should be corrected so that no harm can be done. I am more afraid of the damage that might happen if the wishes of certain trade union federations were fulfilled during government negotiations and corporate taxation was tightened according to the model presented in Finland. I would also urge the representatives of the centre: listen carefully and also remember what intermediate calls you are calling out and promising here, because if it happens that the entrepreneurial deduction will be abolished if the relief of dividends from non-listed companies is tightened, then you will be able to forget the employment figures that the government has set for the coming period. We know that there are 290 000 companies in Finland, most of which are small and medium-sized enterprises. A large proportion of these are sole entrepreneurs — I think the number of sole entrepreneurs in Finland is 180,000, and the rest are limited companies. If the taxation of both groups of companies is tightened, it really will be that excessive election promises will be paid out from the purse of small entrepreneurs. So my advice to you would be to get your hands off the small business purse. [Base Finns Group :Skyton! ] A great deal has been said about the fact that the current system of dividend taxation for non-listed companies is, as it were, too rewarding. Well, it's not too rewarding. If you think of a small company that makes an operating profit or taxable income of 120,000 a year, you might imagine that it is a company with a turnover of about EUR 1 million. It usually employs between 4 and 5 people. Well, how much is the tax on this? Firstly, the company pays a corporation tax of 20 %, i.e. EUR 20000. What happens after that? In a way, there will be a profit of EUR 100,000. The entrepreneur is allowed to raise 8% of this with reduced taxation, but it is not entirely duty-free, but 75% is duty-free and 25% is then subject to capital tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u28	Mr President! This report before the Committee on Finance was unanimous in itself, and it is of course important that this correction should be made here, because this six-month period for the application of the law is of course important for these entrepreneurs to reduce their losses. There could have been some confusion about it — and perhaps the tax authority could have interpreted it differently — whether this reduction in the loss over that period is possible, so this change is absolutely important. But I would also like briefly to join my colleagues here who have been concerned about what is currently being said in the House of Regulation about these tax policies and what kind of proposals will be made there. In particular, these tax policies of the trade union movement, which have also been raised to the public, have been raised here. This property tax, which could be applied, for example, to bank deposits, forests or fields, does sound like some strange thing from the past, and I really hope that no extension of this type of property tax will be achieved. This reduction in entrepreneurship, which Mr Östman has mentioned here, is extremely important for these small and medium-sized enterprises. It is quite recent statistics showing that this has been very important for these small and medium-sized enterprises, and it has been possible to put these companies, could you say, on the same line when we had this reduction in corporation tax during the previous term of government? Finally, I would like to highlight this withholding tax, which has also been discussed. We must remember that we have a lot of foundations that give their money directly to charity, and also those that give wealth to culture, science, art, this type of important objects. I also wonder whether, if we are going to tax foundations, we will have to take into account the fact that, for example, pension contributions are under excessive upward pressure — which already exists — by going through these withholding taxes to the pension funds. In other words, there are a lot of concerns now in the air that I hope that the House of Regulation will be able to align things in such a way that we do not have the tax burden on work and enterprise as a whole. It is of the utmost importance that we continue to maintain an entrepreneurial, supportive climate in society, which ensures that the 75% employment rate target that has been adopted by all can be achieved, is well-placed to go beyond it. And it can already be said here that a responsible opposition will certainly be encouraged to pursue this and do everything possible. That's why maybe this kind of little warning word in this context is in order, even though we still don't know what's coming out of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u29	Mr. Speaker! Careful preparation of legislation is important. Fortunately, in this case, there was a minor error which is easily corrected, but in this debate there have been legitimate concerns, particularly in relation to corporate taxation, which are the key to creating work and vitality for Finland. In order to increase the employment rate and improve the welfare society, it is important that the conditions for companies to operate are not undermined by tax increases. I hope that the negotiators of the Regent House will be aware of this, and I too would like to appeal here in particular to the group in the centre, which has made it quite clear that the tax burden on entrepreneurs and businesses must not be tightened. This is something that I am sure the representatives of the centre will hear in this Chamber several times when these subsequent proposals from the possible Rinte government are being discussed, and I really hope that we, from the opposition, do not have to be in this centre in a negative way, but to thank you for keeping this threshold issue in mind, you made sure that the taxation of entrepreneurs and businesses is not being tightened. I personally promise to give warm thanks to both the centre and the other groups, if that is the case. I also have an appeal to the RKP. In fact, the RKP has also raised the issue of ‘promoting entrepreneurs’ on its own threshold. Hold on to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u30	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Finance is a good one, and it is important that this abolition of the distribution of income is finally achieved as an important concrete change in the law that promotes entrepreneurship, activity, work in Finland, and it is important that this entry into force is properly regulated. All in all, with regard to taxation, there is no doubt that we should continue to pursue legislation that encourages us to work, to try, to employ, to take risks, to own, to invest and to invest in Finland and to do that work here in Finland. It is very important that the government now formed after the elections should also commit itself to the objective that the Sipilä Government has had that the overall tax rate in Finland does not rise. It is also important that taxation is predictable and consistent. In this respect, I would like to wish the government every success in agreeing on practical measures based on these principles at the beginning of the parliamentary term, so that the actors in Finland can then be confident that the line will hold and that the line will be such as to promote Finnish work and entrepreneurship. It is also important that incentive traps are dismantled and that the taxation of wages at no income level is not tightened, and certainly that it should be reduced, especially for small and middle-income people, in order to obtain purchasing power and incentives to work. It is important that taxation is developed in such a way that entrepreneurship, ownership and investment are more profitable. Doing the best you can should always be worth it. It is important that the basic principle of taxation is a broad tax base, low tax rates, and at the same time it is important that: Finland is active in preventing international tax evasion. It is important for tax procedures to be customer-oriented, taking into account tax coherence, predictability and legal certainty and access to information. Mr President! Here are the ideas that we will certainly get a good tax policy for the years to come. I believe that the Sipilä Government has done these well, and I hope that the future government will also take these ideas into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u31	Mr President! Over the next few weeks, now that a new government has been negotiated, I have been contacted as a new Member of Parliament by about a hundred entrepreneurs and they are really concerned about the coming government. Some have also hinted that they are already planning or starting to relocate their business elsewhere than here to Finland. I would like to remind you of such a small matter. Here I quote directly from Wikipedia: ‘The Laffer curve model,which describes the State tax revenue as a function of the tax rate. “ The following has been kept in mind, which you areremoving from the The tax revenue will then decrease if the tax rate is further We're on the brush there now. You decide how the tax revenue will develop, i.e. whether it will start to fall after tax increases or how it will turn out. Remember this, you who are gathering that government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u32	Mr President! This matter we discussed in the Committee on Finance was as such a technical correction which was worth doing. From these tax issues and messages to the House of Regulation: Of course, we all have a common goal of maintaining and developing a welfare society. The fact that we have free movement in Europe, the movement of capital, the movement of businesses, the movement of workers, should be borne in mind. If incentives for work are lost or weakened, it is certain that graduates, for example, who have skills of international value, will leave Finland to countries where work is profitable. The same applies to foreign companies: their willingness to invest in Finland may be weakened. If that investment does not come here, then there will be no jobs, if there is no jobs, there will be no taxes, and if there is no taxes, then it will be difficult to maintain and develop a welfare society. So it is worth being patient now, and a good objective is that no one should be blackmailed by taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u33	In the meantime, the sitting is about to close at 1.30 p.m. Now there are two speeches, Mr Tanus and Mr Sheik. Let us take the next floor, Mr Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u34	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here. In fact, this proposal, as Mr Kiuru has pointed out, is only a very technical change as it stands, but there has been a good debate on these matters of business and taxation. I would also like to highlight these, which are a particularly large number of women's entrepreneurs, particularly small entrepreneurs, which are a large number of women, and these are, in particular, small women's businesses in the field of social welfare and health care. It is, I would say, vitally important that taxation is not tightened up and that reductions, reductions in entrepreneurship, can continue to be implemented and implemented on a better scale. And, as we know, in relation to the recruitment of its first employee and the expansion of the company, tax matters and deduction issues are absolutely essential. At this point, I would like to draw your attention to this matter of raising the VAT limit, which has been raised by women entrepreneurs in particular over the last few years. I would like this to be at the forefront there too. We know that new jobs in this country, too, have been created and are being created, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises, and I would like to see this really remembered there in the government negotiations. It does not make business difficult, nor does it make it difficult for small entrepreneurs, including female entrepreneurs, to operate and work. Let's keep it at the top of the board negotiations. This is my wish, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u35	Mr President! I'm a little appalled that this is where we need to start on some downtown muscle to leave this job, because I think this job should be for the demars just the same. If demars really love employees, as they should, they realize that if they don't have those entrepreneurs, those workers don't really have those jobs either.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-17-ps-7.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
