ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u2	Congressman Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u3	Mr President! The administration of the Ministry of Finance published its contribution to the current economic debate this week, and it considers it important to create a surplus in public finances — not just to put an end to indebtedness, but rather to a surplus. We have also talked a lot about care for the elderly this week, and it has been a great wish in Parliament to have more staff in the care of the elderly and to be able to make human age possible in Finland for all. Well, this official report from the VM does talk about ageing, but it does not talk about this care. At the same time, it says that there would be a need for further adjustment of EUR 2 billion, and it says that this can be done either through additional cuts or through increased tax revenues. Minister Orpo, do you agree with the proposals of this Ministry of Finance's official report?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u4	Mr President! Representative Heinäluoma brings up an extremely important report. I think we need to be very careful about what the best public finance experts in the country say. They have great concern that, even though we have now managed to turn the economy, we have now reached a plus minus zero in public finances, debt has been or have been created, the worse times are clearly beginning. And when, at the same time, we should take care of our elderly, our grandmothers and grandfathers, and many other important social tasks in which expenses increase, we have a tight spot. That is why we must carefully consider where resources are being allocated. In any case, we must add more to the services of the elderly, but how do we finance, for example, important services for the elderly and the additional resources they need? Firstly, when, in my opinion, we cannot go into debt, we have an alternative to channel resources elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u5	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u6	Mr President! I listened very carefully to the Minister's reply, but I did not find an answer to it. When I asked whether you accepted the proposals in this report for an additional 2 billion adjustments, you did not take a position on it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u9	Mr President! Firstly, this is of course a question time for the government, and we are already talking more about the guidelines for the coming election year, but, of course, in the role of the Minister of Finance, I am happy to reflect on these issues. First of all, the fact that we must continue with a strict economic policy is a fact. I think it is essential that in the next parliamentary term we be able to take care of the good economic and employment development that this government has achieved, among other things, with the things you have listed, by keeping this country entrepreneurial and by laying the foundations for growth, job creation — the maintenance of this growth. Without growth, we are guaranteed to be in the cuts, adjustments and tax increases you are talking about. As for me, I accept that line and fully sign what they describe in the future. But in my opinion, before we talk about tax increases or new cuts, we must have programmes that will lead to continued economic growth and
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u10	Madam President! A long-standing member of the Committee on Finance, Mr Ala-Nissilä, has said on Twitter on this issue: ‘The Minister of Finance’s Party President! I have to say that I am very much in line with Mr Ala-Nissilä. If and when we need to be able to take good care of our elderly and our children, we also need tax revenues, and now this government has given the most wealthy tax cuts: the taxation of millions of inheritances has been reduced, the reduction of large forest holdings has been reduced. If we continue to take this line in the future, Mr Orpo, how do you think we will find the heart to take good care of the children and the elderly?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u11	Mr President! Thanks to the government’s good tax policy — which has been predictable and which has been based on the fact that we have reduced taxes on labour and on the taxation of entrepreneurship — we have created a basis for economic growth, competitiveness and investment. It has achieved results. We know this tax policy, Mr Viitanen. We can do it. But we have not promised to abolish the inheritance tax. In the long run, it could be good. We haven't promised. Olavi Ala-Nissilä can promise you what he wants. It might make sense to abolish the transfer tax, but it is not possible in this situation because the tax base remains. Instead, who's talking here? On the other hand, you have promised additional spending of billions before you even started talking about services for the elderly, billions of extra spending across society, and you are talking and calling for responsible financial management here — you!
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u12	Mr President! Mr Orpo, I do not think that you have answered Mr Viitanen's question about where the money will be spent on all your billion tax reductions. Contrary to what you say, in fact, the report by your own officials also criticises the tax policy of this government. There are inefficient tax advantages that you have distributed to your interests. When families with children came to ask whether children of the unemployed must be restricted to early childhood education, your answer was that yes, because large forest owners came here first. [Current Group:Ehhhhh! — — — — Intermediate calls]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u15	Mr Lindtman, it is a matter for a small person for all of us, and it is best dealt with by the fact that we manage our economy well. The best way to deal with it is to take care of economic growth and to ensure that fathers and mothers, men and women, younger people and parents have jobs. This is what we have done, Mr Lindtman. You did not believe any of that at the beginning of the parliamentary term: you told us that we would not achieve the employment objective and you told us that we would not break down the debt. You've been barking at every performance we've ever done.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u18	Mr President! That's quite an equation we have here at hand. At the same time, the Minister for Finance, you and your party are proposing a reduction of some EUR 3 billion in additional taxes and, for example, a rather fierce fall in inheritance and gift taxes. At the same time, there is a heated debate in this House about whether to give mercy to the people who gave mercy to their little ones at the beginning of the reign. Even that few hundred thousand euros could not be saved by this government, but had to be cut again for this year. This has had to be cut, and there have been no concessions. Yesterday we had a serious debate here on the state of care for the elderly, and I would ask you, Minister Orpo, whether it will be a few thousand nurses needed to provide care for the elderly, and the carer size of 0.7 may fall behind again,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u19	Mr President! I'm afraid this style makes me sad now. You're twisting everything they say. [Left: The condition of the elderly makes you sad!]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u20	Representative Ala-Nissilä's name was mentioned.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u21	Chairman! That's what they said. Firstly, I believe that in this parliamentary term there have been many good and predictable tax policies. I know that the parties are only finishing their tax programmes, but I have warned against this public debate, which I have heard when more taxes are being proposed to be abolished. Indeed, the centre assumes that we will have to proceed with moderation in tax policy in the next parliamentary term. But employment is the most important thing. Every employment rate has brought almost 1.5 billion margins to public finances. It has brought EUR 1000 for every family to make a living. The unemployed are ten times more at risk of exclusion than the employed. On this line, Minister of Finance, I understand that you too want to continue. I assume that we will be able to raise the employment rate to 75% in the next parliamentary term, and then we will not need these cuts from the Ministry of Finance if we succeed in employment policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u22	Thank you for the question. Yes, it is. But if we achieve an employment rate of 75% with a good, determined policy, it really will require tough decisions. We all know that the easy ways have been used. If the economic cycle is to fall, we need a determined policy and we need that strict spending discipline, not money here and there. But this 75% does not bring any room for manoeuvre, none. That's why election promises on top of it... So it is based on 75% of total success in employment policy. There is no room for manoeuvre, that is, everything that is now promised, other than compulsory expenditure, will be made a debt and on the children. That is why the key message from the officials of the Ministry of Finance is that we must now be patient and sensible so that we do not have to start debt again on our children. And what... - Sorry, it's already taken up, let's move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u23	Honorable Speaker! We just learned that the easy way has been used. If those easy means are that the indexes have been cut and frozen at the top of economic growth, whatever the tough ones are. [Ari Jalose’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u24	Yes, that is to say, if we want Finland to maintain well-being and have enough money for everything important, there is no other way but to maintain economic growth — to maintain economic growth, to maintain high employment, so that as many people of working age and able to work can get to work. When as many people of working age and able to work are at work as possible, then the money will also be sufficient to deal with matters that are not yet at work or who have worked or who, for example, are unable to work because of disability or illness. Then we need to take care of the knowledge base and competitiveness, ensure that our education system works, that it always produces high levels of knowledge and innovation, that companies are created. Consider Finland a business friendly country. We don't tax companies to death. Extortion of taxes on non-listed companies would mean that when these new jobs are created in SMEs, we would hit employment directly in the head by doing so. If taxation is to be sought
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u25	Mr President! It is quite clear that public finances are not currently able to withstand a new recession, and this is due to our age structure, the dependency ratio and also the general government debt relative to GDP. I understand that bulldozers are needed, but bulldozers must not be built in such a way as to feed further depression. The question for the government is that, since the problems of the Finnish economy are mainly structural and we have now seen, through social welfare reform, that no parliamentary term, no government will be able to resolve labour market reform, social security or other major reforms, then would you be prepared to go along with a broad-based committee idea that goes beyond the parliamentary term, through which everything could be committed to these major reforms, and it would actually create buffers for our economy, and it would genuinely take society forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u26	Mr President! Thank you, Mrs Aalto, for your constructive speech. In fact, I too am disturbed by this kind of election panel discussion in this Question Time. Instead of blaming each other, we should look forward like Mrs Aalto.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u29	Mr President! Minister of Finance Orpo, you do know the tax reduction policy, the tax reductions you finance by cutting education, Finnish skills and low incomes. 1.5 billion dollars in taxation has been reduced during this parliamentary term at the same time as it is said that we cannot afford to end cuts in the social security and education of low incomes. Yesterday we had a discussion about raising the carer's size to 0.7. In the opinion of the Assembly, there is no room for such a reform alone, even if it is financed by tightening the tax on dividends for non-listed companies if there is a political will. You say we can't afford to improve care for the elderly. There is no money, but the government still has the money to push forward the social welfare reform, which, according to experts, will increase the cost of the present up to billions of dollars. Minister of Finance Orpo, why are you not listening to the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u31	Madam President! First of all, officials from the Ministry of Finance have been very much involved in the preparation of the social reform and its financial framework, and I am sure that Minister Vehviläinen will be able to tell us more about this if necessary. But in your own speech you have just described the whole logic of your fiscal, employment and economic policy line. You want to increase the tax burden on companies. You think it's obvious, as it were, that we'll just take it from there. But where do those jobs come from? To the small and medium-sized enterprises whose taxation you are now in the process of tightening.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u32	And for this question section, the last question, Mr Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u33	Mr President! Having listened to you, I see that you accept the proposals from this Ministry of Finance's official report that fit you, and the rhetoric that suits you, and then you talk about accountability, but you do not accept those proposals which are important to your interest groups, such as the question of unlisted companies which your officials have listed on this list of harmful tax subsidies, because it is a question of tax-free dividends. Others pay more for their dividends, there are people who pay less for them, and the staff would like to intervene. Without tax revenue, of course, we cannot take care of the elderly, not of school, not of day care. And when you empty the treasury with these tax solutions, you will always say again that now, responsibly, we must cut more. This is bad politics. The people of Finland will see through this case.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u34	Mr President! There's no such thing as a bad policy being made when that state cashier's been filled. It was empty.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u35	Let's stick to the schedule.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u36	Next question, Representative Savio of the Finnish Parliament Group.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u37	Mr President! Small pensions don't want to be enough to live. This has been known to the government for a long time. True Finns want to draw attention especially to people who have long worked in low-wage sectors, who receive a small pension. Many of them are women whose income is very low as rent, electricity, medicines and other compulsory living costs continue to rise, and some of them even have to rely on income support. The basic Finnish pension model would improve the position of these people in particular. We would raise the monthly pension for each pensioner by means of a mid-term index for the first EUR 1 000. Our presentation would therefore benefit all pensioners, but the purchasing power of those receiving a small earnings-related pension would still increase most. Mr President! In addition to pensioners, the benefits would be the economy as a whole and the SMEs mentioned just now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u38	Mr President! That's a good question. Small pensions will be corrected as the earnings-related pension system develops and when more people and more people come to this earnings-related pension scheme, and we must cherish this pension insurance scheme. It is true that small pensions will certainly have the challenge of living if expenditure is high, medical expenditure and so on, but I believe that such a major reform of the pension system or what you are proposing will certainly no longer be possible during this term of government, but will remain with the future government, and I am sure that we will all warmly welcome it, how we can not only maintain and develop the pension system.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u39	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u40	Mr President! On the basis of the Minister’s response, there seems to be little hope of an increase in occupational pensions, and it seems that the next government will have to take care of pensioner poverty at last. But I would also like to raise another issue here concerning pensions, namely higher taxes on wages. Last autumn, the True Finns proposed that the taxation of pensioners should be lowered so that it would no longer be more stringent than that of employees, and we had also reserved the money for our performance in our alternative budget. This change would also have significantly improved domestic consumer demand. However, despite its fairness, it was defeated in the December budget vote. Mr President! I ask the government why, despite economic growth, it has not wanted to correct the injustice between the taxation of pensioners and employees.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u41	Madam President! Already during the previous parliamentary term, almost all parliamentary parties have taken large decisions together, step by step, making the tax differential between the pensioner and the employee very small. Now, during this parliamentary term, we have had a systematic policy that, once the taxation of labour has, quite rightly, been reduced, those same reductions have always been made on pension income.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u48	Madam President! In the near future, I have had a lot of visitors, nurses, assistants, nurses today, and was even a personal assistant there, and always the conversation we have is about the pension that may have been earned one day, and that pension is very small. Many elderly nurses, like many others, have started to earn pension only at the age of 23. This means that many years of hard work has been done and that final pension is infinitely small. Yesterday, there was talk of care for the elderly and the sense of the industry and of people seeking it. What do you answer to these low-income nurses and those who dream of doing this? What kind of signal could we send from here to the table where wages will be negotiated in the future, that the nurse will earn her salary, and that means that the nurse will also have the right to age and receive the particular pension that she will manage in the future? This is a serious question.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u49	Mr President! However, in spite of the low income or work, the small pension that must be made, as a representative of the government of the country, I will refrain from taking a stand on wage policy. It is a good rule of Finnish society.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u51	Madam President! One of the poorest groups in Finland is the elderly, living alone, who, for example, cost more than the rest of us in terms of living. I recall that some four years ago, the centre of the present government parties, in particular, promised that during this term of government, the status of those living alone would be examined in legislation, particularly through their livelihoods and various benefits, and how the government could improve the position of poor people living alone. Instead of such a proposal from the government, the government has, for example, moved the housing allowance from the rental index to the consumer index and cut the livelihoods of the poorest people in many ways: travel costs, pharmaceutical costs and so on have all dented these same people. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u52	Mr President! It is true, as Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto describes, that the number of people living alone in Finland is a significant number. The background is even greater social change, a stronger tradition of living alone, at a later stage of starting a family, and perhaps the most important group from an economic point of view is the number of people of working age living alone, taking into account income issues. At least this is what the government has promised to report on the financial situation of those living alone. For example, among those receiving income support, the working population of those living alone is overemphasised. There are individual measures that have been taken on me during the last parliamentary term in ways that have encouraged us to look clearly at the economy from the point of view of the resident. Such a change was certainly in time, for example, decisions relating to VAT, as well as the resolution of this parliamentary term, which freed even more low incomes from that payment. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u53	The next question is the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr Mikkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u54	Mr President! Yesterday was the Sámi national day. It was a pleasure to see how many people raised the Saami flag and remembered the existence of Europe's only indigenous people. Unfortunately, in all the other days of the year, the Sámi seem to forget. In many legal and other projects, the self-determination of the Sámi has been or is still under threat — social reform, the Arctic, the Mining Act, to name but a few. Finland still has major problems in securing the human rights of the Sami people. Finland has still not ratified the ILO 169 Convention on the Protection of the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, and just last week Finland received decisions from the UN Human Rights Committee regarding the electoral lists of the Sámi people. According to the Committee, Finland has not respected the sovereignty of the indigenous people. That is why I ask Minister Häkkkäs: what measures are you going to take to correct the comments made by the Committee on Human Rights?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u55	Mr President! Finland is committed to a number of international agreements of its own will and will to uphold the rights of minorities in this country. With regard to the Sami people, we had a debate on the reform of the Sámi District Act so that it would better meet these international obligations. As I said in this Chamber this autumn, there was no agreement in these negotiations with the Sámi people who could have resolved this issue. We were very close, but I think the next Parliament will take this step. Now in Finland, the Supreme Administrative Court has been given the decision of the Human Rights Committee by its own decision, and it has been found that there has been an abuse. Now Finland has six months to show what measures are being taken to remedy these shortcomings in Finnish legislation. The next Parliament will certainly get this legislation first. We have work to do and we are already in the process of preparing for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u56	I would ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to press the V button and stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u57	Mr President! The history of unfair treatment of the Saami in Finland is unfortunately gloomy and long. For example, Finland has long sought to force the Sami people to become part of the majority population. One of the objectives of the Sámi Parliament was to set up a truth commission to deal with the wrongs experienced by the Sámi. The government has begun a process of truth and reconciliation following the presentation of the Sámi Parliament. The first Sámi consultation took place at the end of last year. The success of this process is essential both for the realisation of the rights of the Sami people and for us to take full responsibility for our own history and the injustices that have taken place in the course of it. So I ask the Minister: how do we ensure that the Truth and Reconciliation Committee does not become yet another process in which the Sámi's views are ignored after apparent consultation, but that the facts of the process are recognised and genuinely learned?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u58	Mr President! This question is not so easy. Well... Finland must maintain good demographic relations with all population groups and respect the special rights of minorities, especially those guaranteed by the Constitution. When I have said this, then a more difficult phase begins: How can we safeguard and perhaps eliminate the experiences of injustice that have taken place throughout history in this country among the Sámi? Indeed, such a reconciliation commission is under way, one of the most important processes of which I personally feel is to be able to achieve at least a common understanding of what has happened. That is why, among other things, historians have also been involved in this, so that not only subjective opinions do not resolve but also that research on what has happened plays a central role. The purpose of the Conciliation Commission is to have a common vision of what has happened and then to seek some common understanding, and then it will certainly be up to the State to take action.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u59	Mr President! Yesterday, the film Sameblod came from television, which was not just about what happened in Finland, but very similar to what has happened in the history of the Sámi: how the children of Sámi have been treated and severely discriminated against. There may not be any need to think of finding one person or someone who is guilty, but I think that this situation is such that the Finnish government should consider a public apology that we have not been able to protect the Saami sufficiently in our history. Sometimes an apology is very, very important, and I feel that we should all humbly take responsibility for what has happened. That's how we can learn when we take responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u60	Mr President! Over the decades, some of the Sámi children, and some of the parents, have had to experience things that certainly need to be made clear in the context of this reconciliation commission, perhaps without any greater emotion or cover-up, but all things on the table, and let us see how the authorities, the municipalities, have done what other Sámi groups may have done to others in order to get everyone to see through. There are various school-home issues and other issues with unpleasant fates, and that is why I have stressed that in this process — both in situations between the different Sámi groups and between local decision-makers and authorities and in government measures — we all need to work well together now. If anyone goes out for a bit, this reconciliation process will go wrong.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u61	Next question: Parliament of the Left Alliance, Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u62	Madam President! As the father of two children in kindergarten, I am very pleased with the early education given to my own children by nanny and kindergarten teachers, and I believe that everyone in this Parliament who has children in day care is happy with it. At the same time, however, I have been very concerned about the news of some private day care centers acting a little like that of Esperi, Attendo, or Bee in the care of the elderly. Day care has been provided in spaces without building permits or where fire safety is not clear, ghost nurses have been used, wages have been trampled. These are ways of raising profits for investors, as has been done in the care of the elderly. However, early childhood education is part of our education system; in primary school, profit-making is prohibited by law. I ask, Mr Grahn-Laasonen: should not the pursuit of profit be banned in early childhood education as part of the education system?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u63	Mr President! With the same gratitude I took my own 5-year-old to a day care center this morning. There professionals do a really good job, high-quality early childhood education for all of our children. These abuses and omissions, which have been raised recently, are totally reprehensible. We have a new law on early childhood education, which tightened the supervision of early childhood education, and this has a role for municipalities, regional government agencies and Valvira. I have also made a proposal today that the government in the amending budget should also strengthen the resources for monitoring early childhood education. In other words, we have legislation, it has been tightened up, we now need control in order to be sure that all day care centres are safe and high-quality early childhood education is being carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u64	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u65	Mr President! For decades, day care and early childhood education have been shared with the public, including associations, foundations and private ones. There have been many reasons: pedagogy, emphasis, language choices. But now we have a whole new phenomenon when instead of good early childhood education, companies become the first thing to gain, not good early childhood education. The circle is small, not only in day care, in children's day care, but also in the owners. The same people who are involved in Esper and Attendo as bosses also have an influence on the day care chains in the middle of the noise. Maximum profit is necessarily reflected in the quality of treatment. It is not reasonable to try to make a profit with the early education of our children. You, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, did not answer my question: in the same way that there is a ban on profit in primary school, should it not be banned?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u66	Mr President! Let me be very clear: no profit must be made at the expense of the welfare and safety of children. The law here is very clear. We have legal requirements that are required of both public and private service providers. According to my number, we currently have about 44,700 children in various forms in private service production. It is also important in the municipalities because we have a growing number of children in many cities, and it is in addition to public service production that is needed in order to secure for everyone the place of kindergarten to which we are entitled. In other words, such rapid changes in such matters cannot take place, both in social services and in this aspect of early childhood education. But what we have to do is that we have clear rules of the game, the law is respected and the supervision is in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u68	Mr President! Early childhood education is of great importance for the everyday life of families, for the growth of children and for the rest of the life. High-quality early childhood education provides the basis for the school path, and it smooths out the life of children from different families. Quality early childhood education is particularly important for children who come from poor conditions or who face learning challenges, for example. Mr President! However, the expansion of private, profit-oriented early childhood education leads to segregation among children and inequality. For example, early childhood care units aiming at profit do not want to care for children who need special support or who require more staff. Children in need of support are often pushed into public early childhood education,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u71	Mr President! One of our major inequalities in early childhood education and the problem of equality is that participation in early childhood education in Finland is one of the weakest in OECD countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u75	Madam President! The new early childhood education law is the gem of this government. Indeed, it put the child’s best interests first, improved the quality of early childhood education, and more and more teachers in early childhood education are in early childhood education. It was also in the best interests of the child that that law strengthened oversight. In other words, there is now an even stronger possibility for municipalities to check that the premises are appropriate and that the staff relationship with children provided for in the regulation is correct. But what did the Social Democrats do?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u78	Mr President! The most important point of this new law on early childhood education is in this priority of the best interests of the child, i.e. in the decision-making process of all early childhood education, we must give priority to the best interests of the child. Moreover, the new law strengthens the quality of early childhood education, and that is why I was surprised when it was discussed in this Chamber that at the last minute the entire group of the SDP turned to vote against this law. Moreover, the new law on early childhood education, as well described by Mr Sarkomaa, also tightened the oversight of early childhood education, and that is now also good news in view of these events in recent days. The law requires that the municipalities be monitored. We also have a regional government authority and Valvira, and we now need a little more resources to ensure that this control can actually be properly implemented, and I hope that the government will be very much confirmed by my proposal in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u80	Mr President! Civilisation in society is measured by how it takes care of the most vulnerable, and this includes, of course, not only the elderly, but also children. It is incomprehensible that both children and older people are being giggled with undermanning in order to save costs. The number of employees laid down by the law has been reduced, especially in private early childhood care units, as we have read. This unscrupulous cream peeling is rather repulsive. Nor is it new that day-care centres suffer understaffing. The reason for this is not only the weakening of early childhood education by the government, such as the expansion of group sizes and the limitation of subjective day care rights, but also the pursuit of profits by private entities. It is difficult to accept that even though the government has increased group sizes, i.e. enabled early education with fewer staff, these numbers are still being reduced. What are you going to do now to get rid of this ghost nurse trickling in early childhood education? The child's best interests are not coming true. Do you intend to change the law so that early childhood education does not
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u81	Mr President! In answer to the question: we have already strengthened the monitoring of early childhood education through legislation, and the next step is that I have also provided additional resources for it. Different types of gimmicks by personnel measurements or other omissions are not allowed. So, as obvious as it may seem, I would like to say very clearly that we all have to comply with the law. This applies to both private and public operators. And now the controls will be increased in order to ensure that surprise checks can also be carried out there, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u82	Next question, Swedish Parliament Group, representative Rehn-Kivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u83	Madam President! Värderade Talman! Last week, MTV reported that mental disorders are the most common health problem among young people. Nearly one in ten young people in Uusimaa were clients of special psychiatric care in 2017.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u84	Mr President! The mental health problems of young people must be our common concern. While we can, as it were, rejoice that there is a young generation among us, to whom it may be easier to talk openly about mental health problems than to any generation in Finland before, it is still not enough to answer, but also the service system must be able to answer. I share with the representative a similar picture of the situation that the strengthening of basic services is at the heart of everything so that young people do not receive help hard to achieve and also expensively only through special care. What action has the government taken? The reform of the Sote region will strengthen basic services. In addition, during the Government's term of office, we have been preparing for the reform of mental health legislation so that it can be given to the next government as soon as possible. On its side we have prepared a mental health strategy that goes over several parliamentary periods, of which I personally think that young people's mental health issues and new good practices, which, fortunately, are already used in some places in Finland, would spread most rapidly through that strategy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u85	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask supplementary questions to stand up and press the V-button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u86	Mr President, värderade talman! Psykisk ohlsa förorsakar manskligt lidande och milardkostnader åt samhället varje år. Det är ohållbart att blunda för detta mänskliga lidande. Vi måste tag i problemmet, antars står vi inför stora utmangar.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u87	Mr President! As I said in my recent reply — quite frankly, I remember that the RKP has been active on this issue for a long time — the mental health strategy is intended not only as a tool for this government but as a big stone foot for Finnish mental health work in cooperation with public services and organisations. It identifies the different needs of different target groups, without forgetting, for example, the mental health issues of older people, mental health as a reason for premature retirement in working life or for solving the mental health problems of the young people mentioned. In addition to those listed as a single measure, perhaps I should like to highlight the extension of the legislation on student health care currently under discussion in Parliament, more commonly known as the FSHS, precisely because the special expertise of the FSHS has been the early intervention and good treatment of mental health problems, and it is totally unfair that it has so far been only the right of university students. Now that legislation will also make these same services available to polytechnic students, and I am very pleased about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u89	Next question: the Christian Democratic Parliament Group, Mr Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u90	Madam Speaker! One of the key reform projects for the next parliamentary term is the reform of social security. Many parties have brought out their own models. Today, the Centre published its own model, called a basic incentive income — basic income. Many sectors, including the shipbuilding industry, have been reporting labour shortages for a long time, and we have a lot of unemployed in sectors where labour shortages are at the same time. Something's wrong with this equation. We need to get the young unemployed to work. For this reason, among other reasons, the Christian Democrats brought their own supportive basic security model, i.e. not their basic income, but their basic security model, already in autumn 2015. Since then, this model of ours has been copied more or less successfully by the government parties in particular. I'm asking, shouldn't the government take it now?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u91	Mr President! The Prime Minister's Office has led a so-called Action project that has collected information for the future social security model, and this work is still ongoing. I welcome the fact that the parties bring their own models to the table, but clearly this is the project of the future government — or whether it is a parliamentary committee project, go and know — but, Mr Östman, you will be welcome tomorrow for the publication of the basic income experiment, which will be tomorrow starting at 8.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u92	Next question, the Central Parliamentary Group, representative Viljanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u93	Mr President! Finnish food is the cleanest food in the world. It's tasty and affordable. However, its future is now under threat. The rise in agricultural production costs, the fall in producer prices combined with exceptional weather conditions, has driven farms to a crisis of profitability and an increasing number of threats to the end of production. Much has already been done to improve the situation in this parliamentary term. For example, the origin labelling requirements for food have been extended, the Food Commissioner's office has been set up to make the food market fairer, open up exports to new markets and piled up crisis packages to overcome the worst. The Prime Minister also appointed liquidator Reijo Karhinen to explore ways to safeguard the profitability of agriculture and the future of Finnish food. The liquidator has finished his work today. So I ask the Minister, the government: what will we do next?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u94	Madam President! Mr Viljanen is quite right that the situation in our food production is difficult, and everyone has recognized and acknowledged it, so also in this Chamber from side to side. Things have really been done about this situation and they will now be visible in this big chain, in a long chain with a delay. Today's report also offers new opportunities for this. It is an excellent title: ‘New start to agriculture and the future economy’. If Reijo Karhinen's research work is described very briefly, he says: The product is in order, the market is not. The product is fine, but the distribution of income on the market is not. And when the product is in order, we will have the opportunity for a fresh start, and in this paper, this report will contain a large number of measures that we are going to put in motion during this parliamentary term. But the next government programme in particular plays a key role in how to put these things on the foot, what is here. There are dozens of concrete proposals here, and I encourage all of us to analyse these.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u95	There is another question on this subject. Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party, representative Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u96	Mr President! This Karhinen report is indeed significant. The aim is to raise the entrepreneurial income of agriculture by EUR 500 million, which is absolutely essential for profitability. It is also important for Finland to succeed in the EU negotiations on agricultural reform and in defending funding for rural development. We must insist that farming that will continue to be profitable in all Member States is possible in order to guarantee clean and high-quality Finnish food to Finnish homes, and of course it is also a question of security of supply. Karhinen highlights in particular those farms that invest and develop their production and take a genuine entrepreneurial risk. How can we also contribute to improving the status of these farms and their farmers in these EU negotiations?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u97	Mr President! The key is what we have at the heart of the reform of the common agricultural policy, and that must be food. The fact that we produce food in our fields and in our livestock farms — that is the key issue. And when that product, as has just been said, is in order — the safest and cleanest food in the world — it deserves a stable outlook on production, so that we can get the new investments and new entrepreneurs mentioned by Mr Satose. As far as financing is concerned, the government has clearly stated that it will not succeed in the situation that we are increasingly demanding of our farmers, but we are prepared to pay less and less for it. The Government has stated that this must be balanced in terms of requirements and funding. That is why this proposed financing model is not good enough for Finland, and that is why we are holding negotiations and discussions both between the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u98	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u99	Madam President! During the last term of government, a parliamentary committee was set up with the aim of drafting a proposal for a new Åland Act of Self-Government. President Tarja Halonen was elected president of the Committee and included representatives of all parliamentary parties and the Åland Regional Day parties. The work was preceded by extensive preliminary work, and the report had been drafted by former MP Gunnar Jansson and, unfortunately, by Ambassador Alec Aalto, who had recently left. A representative of the Ministry of Justice served as secretary-general of the Committee, and almost all the meetings were attended by officials of the Ministry of Finance. The final report of the Committee was completed in the summer of 2017, followed by technical preparatory work on the proposal by the Board of Directors and the Regional Government. It's a big job. The previous Autonomy Act was adopted in the early 1990s. The idea was that this fourth overall reform of all time would come into force in 2022, when Åland's self-government will be 100 years old. The Åland Autonomous Law is lex specialis, a special law which can only be amended in the constitutional order and with the consent of the provincial days. Åland's self-government is an international construction that was made 100 years ago. That is why the system has been established in such a way that it has constitutional protection. At the same time, it slows down the process of amending the Autonomy Act. Mr President! Last autumn it became clear that there would be no time to complete the overall reform during this government term. There were still too many open questions in the negotiations between the Government and the Government of Åland. However, the large section on which agreement had been reached was the reform of the economic system of self-government. Not only did it develop economic self-government and it was one of the main components of the overall reform, it also resolved permanently all the problems arising from the regional and social reform of Åland's self-government. When it became clear that there was no overall reform during this term of government, I suggested separating the financial sections from the whole, because it would solve the problems of regional and social reform and there was already political agreement between the governments. In addition, part of the reform of the Self-Government Act would already be ready as the preparatory work for the other sections would continue in the next period. Mr President! The proposal represents a new economic system for Åland's self-government. It is fairer, more flexible, more dynamic than the current system and takes account of future demographic developments. Main funding for Åland will increase by EUR 10 million per year. In this respect, it is important to remember that Åland has always sought to increase basic funding by EUR 15 million per year. This would be in line with the significant population growth in Åland in 20 years after the entry into force of the current system. The population growth in Åland has been twice as fast as in the rest of the country, but basic funding for Åland's self-government has not increased. The increase in basic funding under this proposal is a compromise. The Ministry of Finance and the provincial government disagree as to whether it amounts to EUR 10 million or EUR 14 million. The Ministry of Finance claims that the figure is 14 million, while the provincial government claims that it is EUR 10 million per year. It should be stressed, however, that this proposal was drawn up for overall reform, not for regional and social reform. At the same time, however, the proposal will permanently resolve the problems posed by the regional and social reform of Åland's self-government. Mr President! The Ålanders have consistently pointed out that the model originally chosen for the implementation of the regional and social reform includes problematic points for Åland's self-government. The regional and social welfare reform will lead to an increase in central government taxation of approximately EUR 12 billion per year at the same time as the municipal tax is reduced accordingly. Since Ålanders pay state taxes just as all other Finns do, the change also affects Åland, but the content of the reform does not apply to Åland, and there is therefore no justification for reducing municipal tax. This leads to problems with regard to the principle of equality in the Constitution. A new so-called Aland reduction will therefore be introduced to neutralise the effects of the tax increase on taxpayers in Åland so that the overall tax rate of taxpayers living in Åland does not rise dramatically. The Åland reduction will solve this problem, but it will create a new problem for self-government. This proposal will solve this problem. I think the proposal is a good one. It has the support of both the Government of the Åland Islands and the Province Days of Åland and can therefore be dealt with quickly in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u100	Mr President! I would like to begin by thanking Mr Löfström for his excellent speech. After all, Åland's self-government has developed over some 100 years, but it is still seen and seen, especially on the Åland side, that this self-government should continue to be developed more flexible, more flexible, not only in terms of economic matters but also in terms of legislative powers. For this purpose, the working group of Alec Aalto, which was already mentioned here, was also represented by all the parliamentary parties. I was also a member there. Then there was this parliamentary committee, led by President Halonen. I regret to say that, although much work was done together, we did not achieve the objective that we had of getting a proposal from there that would be quite significant reform of Åland's status and self-government. Now this government proposal corrects or modifies this economic mechanism, and, as Mr Löfström said earlier, it is not only in the background of the need to reform it from the perspective of Åland, but also the acute need for social and health reform and regional reform. If nothing were done, the tax credit related to Article 49 of the Åland Self-Government Act would be nullified. And when you talk about Åland's self-government law, you can only make changes to it in the order of the Constitution and with the consent of Åland, and that is why the ordinary law would not be able to nullify this, even in the context of a major and necessary reform. That is why it is necessary to do something, and after long negotiations this government proposal has been concluded. What is most important here is that, as we have heard, this is the agreement of the province, both the provincial government and the provincial days. Of course, that consent has come from the point of view that this is economically positive and beneficial for the Åland Islands. Yet I see that the kingdom should not be very jealous of this part. I personally welcome the fact that the province is also encouraged to conduct an industrial policy that will increase employment and tax revenues in those regions. When you look at what has happened there, even though the population has grown — and perhaps it tells you just now that when the population has grown — there is a hugely good employment rate compared to mainland Finland. All in all, Mr President,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u101	Irade the Talman! Jag tänkte också säga några ord på svenska. Irade the Talman! Förra hösten blev det klart att man inte skulle Hinna göra den bull totalrevisionen färdig under denna mandatperiod. För många öppna frågor fanns ännu kvar på förhandlingsbordet mellan regeringen och landskapsregeringen. En stor del som man dock var överens om var ett förnyat ekonomiskt system för självstyrelsen. Det utvecklade inte enbart den ekonomiska självstyrelsen och var en huvudk Component i totalrevisionen, utan löste också permanent alla de problem som landsskaps- och vårdreformen skapar för Ålands självstyrelse. Då det blev klart att det inte blir en totalrevision under denna period föreslog jag att man skulle frikoppla de ekonomska dellarna eftersom det skulle lösa problemmen med landsskaps- och vårdreformen och det redan fanns ett politiskt samförstånd mellan regeringarna kring detta. Dossutom skulle man då ha en del av självstyrelselagsrevisionen klar då man nästa mandatperiod ska fortsätta med de övriga delarna. Irade the Talman! Förslaget innebär ett now ekonomiskt system för Ålands självstyrelse. Det är rättvisare, mer flexibelt och mer dynamiskt, det beaktar framtidens befolkningsutveckling och ökar grundfinansieren till Åland med 10 million euro per år. Det är viktigt att i detta heisende minnas att man från åländsk sida hela tiden driit på för att grundfinansieringen ska höjas med 15 million euro per år. Detta för att motsvara den kraftiga befolkningsökning som sketcht på Åland de Senaste 20åren sedan det nuvarande systemet trädde i kraft. Sedan dess har Ålands befolkning vuxit i dubbelt så snabb takt som befolkningen i övriga landet, men utan att grundfinansieringen till Ålands självstyrelse vuxit. Höjningen av grundfinansieringen i detta förslag är en compromise. Det finns olika uppfattningar på finansministeriet och landskapsregeringen om detta betyder 10 eller 14 million euro. Finansministeriet kamdar att det är 14 milioner, medan landskapsregeren kamdar att det är 10 milioner euro per år. Det är dock att poängtera att det rauh förslaget var utarbetat för totalrevisionen, inte för landsskaps- och vårdreformen, men samtidigt löser förslaget landskaps- och vårdreformens problemm för Ålands självstyrelse permanent. Från Ålands sida har vi consekvent påpekat problemmen för Ålands självstyrelse med modellen man från början valde för landsskaps- och vårdreformen. Reformen resortar i att statsbeskatningen höjs med cirka 12 billioner euro på årsbasis, samtidigt som kommunalskatten minskas på motsvarande sätt. Eftersom ålänningar betalar statsskatt precis som alla andra finländare påverkar ändringen också Åland. Men Åland berörs dock inte av innehållet i reformen och kommunerna blir inte av med några uppgifter som motiverar att änka kommunalskatten. Således skapas problemm i förhållande till grundlagens läsbehandlingsprincip. Av den anledningen införs ett nätt så kallat Ålandsavdrag som netaliserar statsskattehöjningen för åländska kattebetalare för att inte totalskattegraden ska öka dramatiskt för skattebetalare bosata på Åland. Ålandsavdraget löser det är problemmet, men skapade ett nowt problemm för självstyrelsen. Även om Ålandsavdraget netaliserar effekten på individnivå, kommer statens sammanlagda inkomster öka med 12 billioner euro per år. Det påverkar i sin tur klumpsum och skattegottgörelsen. Eftersom ålänningar inte får höjd statsskatt skulle kattegottgörelsen aldrig me utlösas effectsom det i practiceken blir omöjligt för Åland att under normala omständigheter generala över 0,50 % av den statliga inkomstskatten. Således skulle landskaps- och vårdreformen i practiceken radera ut en del av Ålands ekonomiska självstyrelse. Den ändringen av självstyrelselagen reglerar dock permanent det problemet, vilket är av fundamental betydelse för att landsskaps- och vårdreformen ska respektera Ålands självstyrelse. Irade the Talman! Att landskaps- och vårdreformen inneburit problemm för Åland kan inte komma som en överraskning. Då utkastet till reformförslag presenterades den 29 juni 2016 påpekades problemmen. Från åländsk sida bad vi om en utredningsman som kunda iösningsförslag i god tid. Den 11 December 2016, långt innan reformförslaget gavs till riksdage, Skrev jag ett brev till statesministern och till regeringen i ärendet. Då förslaget sedan gavs till ricksdage påpekade jag på nowt sakerna rai i plenisalen i riksdagens remissdebatt den 7 mars 2017. Grundlagsutskottets utlåtande från 29 juni 2017 tog också upp de koh problemmen. Den 17 November 2017 ställdes på now ett skriftligt spörsmål till finansministern angående hur regeringen tänkt lösa det är problemmet. Det har så klart gjorts mycket mer — inlägg i riksdagen, förhandlingar mellan landskapsregeringen och regeringen, informationella discussioner, öten, öndligt många telefonsamtal och e-post. Att reformen inneburit problemm för Ålands självstyrelse kan dock inte komma som en överraskning för någon. Irade the Talman! Det måste vara en självklarhet att Åland hela tiden respekteras i alla reformer för att garantera rauttsäkerheten och självstyrelsen som constitutionell construction. Därför måste man se till att också landskaps- och vårdreformen är förenlig med självstyrelsen. Det gör det rauh förslaget, och således välkomnar jag förslaget som är väl förankrat på Åland i både landskapsregeringen och Ålands lagting och således kan behandlas snabbt i riksdagen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u102	Mr President! It's a great place in Åland, isn't it? The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and Citizens' Rights and the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights were able to say so in the summer when we were guests there. Representative Löfström also hosted a little of us there, and we had a very good time there. We visited Kastelholm Castle and so forth. This self-government is quite justified, and we have not had any actual parliamentary debate here, at least this time of year, since I have been here. However, while it should be noted that the Åland issues are rarely discussed here, I would like to point out here that there are also these privileges — here I am giving Mr Löfström a little question lesson on Åland, if you would like to answer: How do you argue in Åland that the Russians are allowed to buy land in Finland, but the Finns are not allowed to buy land from Åland without special permission? You cannot buy a summer cottage unless it is shaped like a housing company, but those cottages are usually a little more expensive. Is this old relic something that the Ålandians want to hold onto, and if so, why? It would be most welcome if you would provide an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u104	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 16/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u105	Mr President! A crime must be punished. However, Finland is not always penalised for criminal offences covered by fines, but there is impunity. In other words, shoplifters in Finland are arrogantly walking to the store and picking up what they want from the shelf. This is what happens in our country every day. Today, the unpaid fine imposed by the police cannot be turned into imprisonment, but the act will remain unpunished if the fine is not paid. The same practice is now being pursued against the will of the Finns. However, I would like to stress here that this is the line of the Constitutional Committee that the fine imposed by the police or the prosecutor cannot be turned into imprisonment but should be taken to the Court of Justice in order to carry out the conversion of the fine. It is therefore the will of the people of Peru that the system should be changed so that it can be brought to the court for judgment and thus for imprisonment to change the fines. This government proposal was discussed in the Legal Committee, and the Finns of Peru submitted an objection to the report, and the objection emphasises that we believe that the conversion penalty for the fine should be used in cases where the fine cannot be recovered. Now this system discriminates against those in work when only those in work have to pay their fines. So the poor people on social security don't have to pay. Is this not a discriminatory policy of punishment? Now, according to this government's proposal, the offence will be dealt with before the court if at least six fines have been imposed on the offender on the basis of acts committed during the year before the infringement. So consider the amount: six fines. Six offences may be committed in Finland in a year without penalty. However, that limit of six fines in the government's proposal and in the committee's report is already in force. It's in the police manual and it's used by the police. It is already being applied today, which means that this law in itself does not bring about a very significant change in the legal situation. Obviously, therefore, it is only in this respect that the purpose is to record the existing state of affairs in the law. I wonder, however, that in the view of the government, only the seventh crime per year shows indifference to the law. Only a seventh fine for a crime within a year can result in a fine being paid or put in prison. The reason for this is once again often heard from the government about the cost implications, namely that people cannot be put in prison when the increase in the number of prisoners costs money. The Finns of Peru are concerned about this fiscal justice policy. The judicial system should be developed primarily through justice and not just on fiscal grounds. Furthermore, in this case, it should be noted that the estimated cost of the proposal is significantly lower than the amount of money that the State loses each year in the form of VAT revenue due to the loss of commercial theft. Mr President! In the longer term, the aim of the legislation should be to develop a system of all fines in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution, in which cases they are not paid, to be established before the Court of Justice. To this government’s proposal, the Finns of Peru make it more stringent that the change in fine proposed by the government should be initiated in the case of three fines instead of the six. So we're gonna play blackmail on it from six to three.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u106	Madam President! This return of the fine to Finland is part of the blackmail package for the punishments of Minister of Justice Antti Häkkänen. We have had presentations to Parliament and things have already been decided, for example, in the case of sexual crimes against children, rape of a child was included in the new law, and thus those thresholds for penalties actually rose, which means that the penalties will also be tightened. The mere increase in the ceiling would not have brought about such measures as people expect. The definition of ‘first time’ has also been revised in its entirety, as well as conditionality has been tightened up by accompanying sanctions. The risk assessments have also been extended, and there is still a debate to strengthen the binding nature of the hazard assessments so that prisoners identified as dangerous by professionals cannot be released. Now it has often been the case that the Helsinki Court of Appeal has passed over these decisions and has released people who, in risk assessments, have continued to find dangerous for the safety of other people. And then this reversion of the fine before us today. In 2008, when the Minister of Justice served as the Minister of Justice, Tuija Brax of the Greens, and after that shoplifters behaved very indifferently in stores, shoplifters were even described as arrogant. They knew that they would not be held responsible in any way for their actions. And what did that mean when the store went down? On an annual basis, the transaction generated approximately EUR 550 million in costs of these shopliftings, small thefts that took place after this change. So, in more than ten years, 550 million each year were incurred in the cost of trade. And who paid for it? Honest, ordinary shoppers paid for them at the prices of other products in the store, and it is good that this insolent activity is now being brought into some way in the shops. In the future, therefore, fines can be converted into imprisonment, that is, if a person does not pay the fines, they cannot be collected, the fine can be converted into an old-fashioned prison. This is in accordance with the general sense of law that everyone is punished for a crime committed and no one gets away with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u108	Mr President! This important proposal for the return of the conversion penalty, which is essential for maintaining lawfulness, is now up to Parliament to decide. That's good. The Finns have been pushing this issue for years, and now the government has taken the line. Unfortunately, however, the unnecessary dwindlings and waterings that have already been identified in the referral debate are still included in the report. The clause tabled by the Group of the Finns Party has corrected this problem with regard to the most flagrant aspect, i.e. that three outstanding fines in the course of the year would be sufficient for a conversion penalty of six. This proposal is to be welcomed and I wonder why the committee did not approve it in its report. Perhaps the representatives of the government parties could tell us more about this. But I particularly wonder, however, what the value of the parties that drafted this motion for rejection is. Now that the government has finally received this proposal, after years of stalling, it will not do either. Is it right for the Greens and the Left to have an ordinary citizen deal with his fine, but the one who is badly involved is freed from those responsibilities and can be torn before the police without any practical consequences? Is this what you think promotes law-abiding?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u109	Mr President! According to this government proposal, the conduct of persons guilty of seven similar offences within a year should be dealt with in court proceedings. In this case, it would be possible to convert the fine imposed on a person into imprisonment if it is not recovered from the sentenced person. This change has been justified, above all, by the credibility of the criminal justice system, compliance with the prohibitions and orders of the law and by general law. These are well-founded arguments, and I would like to remind you that it is to this very day that the police can, at their discretion, bring fines to the prosecutor and to the court. According to the police manual, this is exactly how it is done that the seventh repeated fine for a similar crime should be taken to court, and I would like to rely on the Finnish police in this situation to ensure that the insolent situations, such as those described above by Mr Heinonen, are precisely those in which I trust that the police, at their discretion, will then forward the fine to the prosecutor. This government proposal means an increase in the workload for the police, the prosecutor and the Court of Justice, just because the Court should also deal with cases where the fined person pays his fine in any case. After all, unpaid fines always go to recovery, so this proposal will only be directed at those who are insolvent and have lost credit information. It can therefore be asked whether it is right that the conversion penalty should only be applied to insolvent persons. More than two out of three finers are a high consumer of intoxicants and half of them are particularly heavily dependent on intoxicants. Fine prisoners are in great need of health care, especially substance abuse rehabilitation. The main reason for this proposal is to promote the credibility of the criminal justice system, respect for the prohibitions and orders of the law and general law-abiding. Experts say that this objective can justify any hardening of criminal law. Questions have been raised in the expert consultation as to whether the instrument offered will correct that credibility and whether the change thus made is worth its price, whether the same could have been achieved by another measure and what the other benefits and costs of these measures would be. These questions, which guide the rational use of criminal law, have not been asked and answers have not been received. The problem with the proposal has been identified in expert evaluations as the fact that a crime, such as shoplifting, the seriousness of which requires a slight penalty, leads to imprisonment. Intoxicant abusers carry out conversion sentences in prison and are mainly: [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u110	Mr President! The need for this government proposal is well founded here. After all, it is not a question — and indeed none of us would believe it — of having such a special deterrent effect that the big picture of these crimes could be prevented by this provision, but, above all, of the credibility and general lawfulness of this system. There can't be such a situation that if you break the law, you commit small crimes, then there'll be nothing. After all, this undermines public belief in this system and it is therefore important that this conversion sentence be returned to the penal code. When I look at this report from the Committee on Legal Affairs, I see that minor changes have been made here to the government proposal. They're a little tight. There the number of daily fines has been calculated from 20 to 16, which would allow conversion. After all, the minimum duration of the conversion penalty would be 4 days, up to 40 days. This too seems to me to be justified, and it is well-founded in this report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. It is also clear from the government's proposal that it is true that often these people who would be subject to a conversion penalty may be intoxicated, in any case they are deprived of the fact that they have not even been charged those fines in the event of enforcement, but this does not in my opinion diminish its importance, but, indeed, because of the general lawfulness, this proposal is sensible and good. It cannot be so that if you are low - income, you do not have to follow the law. After all, at the moment the situation has, in practice, led to little of that kind. Of course, we expect everyone to comply with the law, but if nothing comes of it, then it will, in a way, lead to such a perception from the citizens' point of view that there is no penalty, even though you commit a lot of minor crimes. Nevertheless, it must be recognised that this proposed change does not at all diminish the need to impose substance abuse and social measures on these persons who have committed them and to try to help them to get away from it. We know that the prison itself does not help anyone, but that measures are needed, in particular, to deal with the fact that this type of activity could end and possibly provide the necessary social and health care services for these people. As a whole, I believe that the government's proposal and the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights are good and well-founded.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u111	Mr President! I see there's no limit to the populism of the Coalition Party. This government proposal does not introduce any new conversion of the fine. This government proposal does not change the current situation — in the present situation, the police manual has the same limit of six fines, after which they are brought to court and can be converted. And this line is not changed here. In fact, the previous line of the Stubbi Government of the Coalition Party was half as strict as this line of Justice Minister Häkkänen. I do not know what the representatives of the government party are justifying this now, but the arguments that I have heard are absolutely populism, and they give false indications that the conversion of the fine would be introduced in some way. Well, according to modern law, it does exist.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u112	Madam President! I remember very well at the beginning of December 2006, when the proposal of the government of that time was discussed here, when this conversion penalty, or at least to a large extent, was abolished. There was a lively debate then, and gasoline dealers, among others, were very strongly opposed to the change and warned that it would have bad consequences when indifference was fed in that way — it was Vanhanen’s first government during which it was done. But that is what happened. As far as petrol dealers are concerned, they must have put the indicators in such a way as to limit the maximum amount of euro that cannot be taken, but on the other hand, there was often no recovery in the case of fines, and there were no penalties. Of course, it would have been expected now, as Mr Tavio rightly said here, that a change would be made to make it real and to improve its social morality in this respect too. Although we know that prison does not cure anyone and is not a good solution in many cases, it is harmful to society as a whole to get away without punishment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u113	Madam President! I will continue with what Mr Kankaanniemi said about these gas thefts. However, such a general sense of justice is common to the citizens and they do not accept this. If I make a villain, they won't accept it, and no one else will. But after the experts have made statements and all, have the experts now studied the business life of the entrepreneur? The other fall I met a gas company, there was just a gas thief, and he said that two days' cover went in that gas tank — it just went away, and six times the gas thief gets to do it. He said the same thing goes there for regular gas, and it goes on his tab. I don't understand this kind of work, you can't get any discipline for these things. And was it now in the Evening Sanomas that story about the entrepreneur publishing camera photos of this kind of theft, the entrepreneur was convicted. And I'm afraid those fines are going to have to pay. There is no alternative, or they will go to recovery and they will be taken away. According to this general sense of justice, I don't understand this kind of thing, that we're talking here about someone who's supposedly changed. Six times a year you can go back and fill up the car on the entrepreneur's tab, and the following year you can start again. That's all there is to it. And when there's no conversion penalty, get on with it. The amount of police activity — not long ago — that when thieves went to the garage, the entrepreneur shot into the air, and of course the police came to investigate it, and when they were looking for those shell casings in the country, the entrepreneur said that you should start looking for those thieves, and there are those shell casings in the country, and I can collect them for you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u114	Mr President! I absolutely agree with Mr Hakkarainen on this point that it is no good that the merchant who reported a gas thief in public is, in the opinion of society, a greater criminal than the gas thief. It's just not right. And it is also the case that breaking the law must have consequences. In due course, even the election money issue was triggered by the fact that the representative of the city centre announced in public that the law could be ignored, because failure to comply with the law has no consequences. This just doesn't work in the rule of law. But when I asked the representatives of the government parties to tell me why the law would be limited to six rather than three fines, paradoxically speaking, I received an answer, mainly from Mr Karimäki. Even now, police practice in many cases follows what is now laid down in this law. Thus, this law, which was truly highly acclaimed by the assembly, does little to change anything.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u115	Mr President! I think this is a good and honest conversation. I would like to thank Mr Tavio for pointing out that, in fact, the conversion of the fine is not being returned in any way, that it is being done in accordance with the police manual at the moment. Representative Salmon also made a good, constructive speech about the need for substance abuse treatment for such serial abusers who are in need of substance abuse treatment. I hope that alternative solutions will be considered in the future to carry out this conversion of the fine, such as, for example, this consequence of contract management, as proposed in this protest by the two parties. It is quite clear that in this country everyone must have justice. Of course, on the part of traders and entrepreneurs, I am in such situations when they feel powerless in the face of constant theft or shoplifting. It is precisely for this reason that I think it is important for the police manual to provide advice on how to deal with these situations and then for the police to consider taking matters forward to the prosecutor and for the prosecutor to make a decision on the prosecution, and in that way the most flagrant irregularities can be tackled. At the same time, however, I would like to call for people who are genuinely insolvent with substance abuse problems, who have fallen completely outside the safety net of society, to be better able to help intoxicant-free life.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u116	Mr President! Honourable Finns, you were in the government when it was possible to intervene in this conversion of the fine. You will remember that we, as representatives of the police, raised this issue many times. What did you do? You didn't do anything. And now the coalition and others here are doing something about it — blackmailing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u119	Mr President! Congressman Grass here is telling the truth. True, this has changed a little as the mind has changed, and then perhaps wisdom has increased even in the True Finns since they left the government. Of course they tried to do this back then. I would actually like to say to Mr Karimäki, however, that it sounded as if you were in a way very much in agreement with this proposal, but you have nevertheless objected to this and you are saying that this should be rejected. I think this sounds a little strange. Personally, I am well aware of the arguments used here to punish even these small crimes — or the criminals who commit them. That is true, but society must also look at the overall assessment: which is reasonable for the whole and also for the use of resources. If we direct police resources too much into very small crimes, then these major and more serious crimes will not be enough. However, we have limited financial resources. This period has seen an increase in police resources, and we have also argued that there should also be a significant increase in the next period — hopefully this will happen. But everything has its limits, and when we also remember your alternative budget and debate here, where you have suggested that asylum seekers should also be put in cells, that is, if someone is an absurd waste of resources. So I understand that this is the kind of performance that has been made. This may not go as far as many of us think it would make sense, but compromises are needed here. This is a clear step forward and a sensible one.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u120	Madam President! First of all, 5. We voted against this and then voted against the bad proposal, that is to say, rejection, but the majority — which I think was part of the opposition at the time — voted in favour of its law. That's when we went on the wrong track. Congressman Grass, take it easy. You were a member of the Finnish Parliament Group.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u125	Mr President! I would like to say to Mr Ruoho that, quite specifically, there are no police MPs, as there are no system experts, but there are exactly the same MPs here who are all MPs. And, yes, even the police have some improvement in their own compliance with the law, that much of the police’s top management is currently at the breadless table in the courtroom. But as far as this conversion penalty is concerned, the Finns of Peru have been raising the issue all along and trying to bring it into the government program. Why it did not make any progress earlier in this period, for example, it is appropriate to ask Minister Lindström, who was then Minister of Justice, and also Minister Häkkkäs. Why does it only come up now in the run-up to the elections?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u126	Mr President! Indeed, Mr Salmon said and found that our thoughts are certainly not very far apart. And if you carefully read this committee's report, in which the majority, however, supports the proposal, this is very critical and highlights the findings, shortcomings and problems of experts in this proposal. One fact is that no one has questioned the fact that the police now have the power to proceed with the seventh repeated fine being brought to court and thus to the courts for judgment. This report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights also gives a very long thought to alternative sanctions, support measures for substance abuse care. The Committee stresses their importance and also the fact that, for years, we have been looking for situations in which people who are excluded and have substance abuse problems who are constantly shoplifting could have some other type of system that can address their situation and, of course, that constant shoplifting. Of course, the key is that in the rule of law, law and justice and fairness are realised. After all, the procedure is now carried out through a police manual, but now, in this situation, when the proposal is brought into law, it also means that even cases where a fine is paid in any case go to the courts, small shoplifting and so on. We know that the resources of the courts have actually been severely cut for several years, and this has led to a situation in which we can ask ourselves whether legal protection will continue to be achieved in this country for all victims who need rapid justice and legal protection in order to promote their cause.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u127	Mr President! I have to answer my colleagues here: I often brought it up in a group. I remember it quite well because my former national teammate, who is a merchant, gave me detailed information on how it affects the industry when it is these clever and unable to use the conversions of the fine. I'm sure I brought it up. But I must say that then we have many other things that can only be promoted by the government. Accelerating the process of expulsion: I myself have made proposals for expulsion, and I work for that work. It was necessary, and it was already included in the government programme. And what is it? It is now in force. Increase the maximum penalty for non-immigration: To change Article 185 of the Aliens Act and Chapter 17 of the Penal Code, I took a bill on 29 March 2017, which surprises me today in the very same title of the bill in Kankaaniem. But I can tell you a happy thing that this has already come into force since the beginning of this year. We'll discuss it later today then. But I'm sure we're done. From a police representative’s point of view, Congressman Jani Mäkelä there very strangely took examples that some police officers are on trial and some in prison. That only shows that our judicial system works. No one here is above the law — not the legislators, nor are the enforcers of the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u129	Mr President! Representative Ruoho, you, as a representative of the Finns of Finland, often spoke very highly of the politics of the Coalition Party. Now, as a representative of the National Coalition Party, again, you seem to have spoken very strongly about the politics of the Finns of that time, when, according to your own words, you took care of this matter in the Finns of Peru, which is to say that you directly blame yourself. However, you did not say that if you consider this government proposal to be too loose — as we do and what it is, and even in Stubb’s government the line was much tighter in the assembly — then why don’t you support this stricter proposal from the Finns of Peru. Is this the one who's doing this the wrong way for you?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u130	Mr President! When you listen to this conversation, the big picture shows that everyone is about to agree on this. In fact, everyone is in favour of this. Some say that well this is pretty close to current practice, but this is okay and good. Others say all right, in the good direction, but not quite tense enough. So is it not worth unanimously accepting this now and then seeing in the next period whether there is a need to make some other changes? Let's leave our differences in bigger things. This is a waste of a good fight when we all agree.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u131	Mr President! Representative Tavio must be answered that I said that as a party, the Finns gave in to the assembly. Then you can raise other things, which I certainly don't know if it's here. I recall that the issue of the management register was the one where the police representatives were... There Mr Kulmala nods and remembers well how you Finns, then my fellow party, voted against the will of the voters, against the will of the experts. The matter of the register was probably at the time when you spoke about this line between the National Coalition Party and the Finns of Peru. By the way, the Coalition Party has done an excellent job throughout the entire term of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u132	Mr President! It is very good that this matter of the conversion of the fine is finally coming through here, and thank you to Mr Häkkänen and, of course, to the committee which has dealt with this matter and brought it forward. When there has been no conversion penalty for this fine for a while, I can say that it has indeed had a demographic effect. In other words, it is a very bad message if the theft of a person who has lost all his credit records does not result in any penalty — it is an extremely bad message. When I have discussed this with small entrepreneurs, for example, one of the gas station entrepreneurs described the situation well that when he has a gas station in the countryside, in my municipality of residence, where you can refuel from one meter without having an automatic — i.e. you can refuel and then you can pay for the gas station — so when those who are the most turbulent are refueling, they greet the security camera at the same time. So it's a picture of what's the attitude to that thing. This is an extremely good reform when it comes back to the fact that, when more than one person commits such an act and receives a fine, it will also be converted into imprisonment. This is an important issue and, above all, sends out the moral message that the crime must always be punished. This is a very good thing, and it is great that we are finally making progress.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u133	I would like to make it clear to Mr Satonen that this is the way those gas thieves will continue to fill up the gas in there in an outrageous manner, to greet the entrepreneurs in the camera. Under this new law, the conversions of the fine will not be made any more than under the current law in force. According to the current law, the police manual states that, after six fines issued within a year, they will then be brought before the Court of Justice and amended, and this instruction in the police manual is already being applied. So this government proposal will bring no change to this current state of affairs. In spite of your harsh speeches, the situation does not change, therefore, but, as Mr Hakkarainen described earlier, so harshly, six times each year at least — how many times will it actually be caught — these thefts and shopliftings can take place. We Finns have, on the other hand, put forward a stricter line here, and the Group of the European People's Party was also in favour of a stricter line. Because when Stubb's government submitted a government proposal for this in 2014, there was a much tighter line, too,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u136	Mr President! The fact that it is recorded here in the law is a very important starting point. Of course, it is okay for me that this punishment practice may be stricter, but it is extremely important that it is recorded here and now it is here and not just in any police department's own code of conduct, as it were. Yes, this is an important solution, and fortunately, this government, after Antti Häkkänen became Minister of Justice, has taken this matter up. At the time of the negotiations on the Government Programme, this matter did not progress, even though Mr Tavio and his group were also on the board. At the time, this issue did not come to the fore, but, fortunately, we have now made progress here. It's all right if you're here to support me — maybe not quite this, but a little similar. The most important thing is that we have a joint message here that the crime must be punished, because I know that there have been at least previous speeches here that have been considered wrong at all, that in any case a fine can be turned into imprisonment. It is good if the debate is now going in the direction of simply discussing how quickly it should be changed and where the threshold by which it will be changed is not being discussed any more about the fact that it would be wrong for these fines to be turned into imprisonment at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u137	Mr President! Fortunately, we also have common ground here, because we are not in the process of rejecting this government's proposal, unlike the Green Left.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u142	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 15/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u143	Mr President! This proposal therefore concerns the reform of the matriculation examination. The presentation is part of the Government's broader plan for the development of upper secondary school education. The aim is to maintain the matriculation examination as a general education and as a postgraduate qualification. Instead of the current four, the matriculation examination candidate should undergo five tests, including a test in the mother tongue and literature, and at least three tests in a group that includes a test in mathematics, another national language, a foreign language and real subjects, as the candidate chooses. A fifth grade student can choose for himself. At the same time, procedures for registering for matriculation examination tests would be made more flexible. The background is, of course, that university admission test reform. The Education Committee welcomes the Government's proposal in general. However, in the report we have drawn attention to three points: the structure of the matriculation examination, the high school diplomas and the English matriculation examination. In this respect, we also propose changes to the government's proposal. We will also make three statements. The second part of the government’s proposal was to enable a matriculation examination in English. There would have been arguments for this from the point of view of education exports, but since the question of the constitutionality of the proposal arose in committee, we decided to propose that these points be deleted altogether. The committee's assessment was that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs might not have had time to deal with the matter. The committee will make a statement on this. In accordance with that statement, ‘The Commission requires the Government to consider making a proposal for an English-language matriculation examination in order to make The proposal shall take into account the status of national languages and the constitutional requirements’. The structure of the matriculation examination is largely to be supported. Five written subjects support university admissions and are in line with the admission test reforms. The majority of students already complete at least five subjects. However, there have been concerns about the situation of dual degrees and adult students in expert hearings. It's important. On this basis, we make a statement: ‘The Board requires the Board of Directors to assess how the new structure of the Master’s degree contributes to the achievement of secondary and secondary education,inparticular taking into account two degree-orientedstudents andadult students,andto The government proposal does not take a stand on high school diplomas. However, the committee believes that the methods of producing knowledge that are characteristic of arts and crafts should be seen in the context of a renewed upper secondary school education as being equal to the production of the knowledge of the subjects currently included in the matriculation examination. We are therefore making a statement: ‘The Commission requires the government to clarify the transformation of Mr President! With these amendments and statements, the Committee on Culture proposes that the Government's proposal be adopted. The report contains one objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u144	Mr President! Yes, we have raised objections. During this parliamentary term, secondary school education has been marked by a direct government reform rage, which, however, has not taken into account the secondary level as a whole or the burden of pupils and teachers in the face of constant change. In this government proposal, we have wanted to draw particular attention to the structure of the five tests proposed in the draft law, which, when implemented, causes a number of problems. The number of compulsory matriculation exams is thus being increased from four to five. That's what's at the heart of it. The proposal contradicts the aim of increasing the number of upper secondary school graduates and of completing a yo-qualification. Students from different backgrounds who have learning difficulties or need other support are studying in upper secondary school. The completion of these students' upper secondary school and matriculation examination as a result of this presentation becomes more difficult. The structure of the degree increases the burden of the degree, and it can be predicted that the drop-out of upper secondary school studies will increase, as well as the number of those who are unable to complete the degree successfully. In addition, the position of adult students and dual degree students is weakened by the decrease in the optionality included in the degree. It is clear that the number of people falling from education will increase exclusion. Many commentators have drawn attention to these problems. The secondary education system should be considered as a whole. The present presentation of the number of examinations covered by the matriculation examination contradicts the objectives of the vocational education reform. The central idea of vocational education reform has been to increase the student's ability to collect a degree that is tailored to his/her own goals and requirements. The dual degree and other competence acquired through upper secondary school studies have been and will continue to play a key role in the case of students with a vocational qualification who have set the goal, for example, of higher education studies. In vocational institutions, efforts are currently being made to speed up the studies of a double degree student, for example, so that the studies of the common subjects included in the initial vocational qualification can replace upper secondary school with equivalent subjects. However, it would not be possible to recognise upper secondary school studies required for the completion of the fifth matriculation examination as part of the student's initial vocational qualification. Therefore, the reform would extend the study time of a double degree and increase the costs of training providers. Likely, fewer and fewer students would complete that double degree. Today I met young people who had a double degree and they regretted this reform. A change in the structure of the matriculation examination is not necessary, as the ongoing student selection reform at universities encourages the candidates to carry out the five tests according to the objective of the performance even now. The benefits of this change would therefore be minimal in comparison to the disadvantages it causes for double graduates, upper secondary school students and students with learning difficulties. The reform would extend the study periods of two graduates. The current number of upper secondary school courses and the four examinations are already having difficulties in completing a degree in three years. As a rule, students receive a vocational qualification in or even under three years, but the matriculation examination would still be completed. This could also have an impact on the funding of VET providers. Nor is there a need for restructuring because the new law on upper secondary schools already contains all the necessary elements for the future development of students' wide-ranging and diverse skills and a stronger general education. The development of the education system has been driven by the promotion of lifelong learning paths. In the course of work and technological change, this is important. Those who have completed a double degree are well employed, while some of the graduates apply for a postgraduate degree at a university of applied sciences or university. If a young person wishes to complete two degrees, he or she should make every effort to promote this through all possible means and not make it more difficult. However, the proposed change in the structure of the matriculation examination threatens to wreck the double degree. Graduates of upper secondary schools for adults mainly belong to the 20 - percent group of our country’s trainees who only complete the current four compulsory examinations. Based on the informal data collected from six upper secondary schools for adults, students perform an average of approximately 4.3 tests per degree. For many of them, the fifth mandatory substance can be the crucial excess load that causes the study to be interrupted. In contrast to the objectives of upper secondary school reform, the reform of the structure of the degree as presented produces exactly what the reform was intended to avoid: the difficulty of completing the upper secondary school syllabus and completing the degree or even the interruption of studies. This is particularly shortsighted today, when we try in every way to get every young person in Finland to complete at least a secondary degree. This strikes that goal on the ear. Mr President! I have an objection to the amendment to the paragraph.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u145	Mr President! Overall, we believe that this proposal should be supported. We see that there are a number of such factors, perhaps specifically facilitating the practical everyday life of the student and experimenter, in relation to the registration of the exams and the choices made there, the time of completion of the degree and the possibility of transferring individual tests, as it were, to a later stage, but still remain part of the entire degree. These are important parts. As we have seen in the previous speeches, this requirement for five tests is certainly the one that has raised the debate most of all. There was a lot of talk about it in the committee, my group discussed it for a very long time: it is seen that it is not an easy or black and white matter. And the concerns that it involves, particularly from the point of view of the burden and ability of students, are certainly aspects that we too believe must be taken seriously. That is why it is good and important for the committee to have this statement specifically to monitor the situation. At the same time, I may personally see that these issues of endurance are often those that may rise a long time earlier on that path of learning. These are not, as it were, new information for the Committee on Education, Public Health and Consumer Policy, but, unfortunately, in a number of contexts, issues relating to the ability and mental health of children and young people have been raised in different ways. Of course, they are widely supported, and all the time we have to work to ensure that comprehensive services are available. However, in my group, in relation to this proposal, it was finally tilted to the fact that we are also prepared to support this five-test obligation, precisely from the perspective of its broad general education. It had a lot of weight in our debate. To the extent that it is really great and important that this high school diploma has now also been raised to make it equal. It is also very important from the point of view that there are different skills, different ways of learning, adopting knowledge or expressing it and showing it to one's own know-how, human capital, and that we strengthen such paths is an extremely important goal when we talk about every young person's ability to build an equal future for himself in Finnish society.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u146	Mr President! As has been said in this one previous speech, this is a problematic proposal in many ways, and it is also linked to many rather problematic aspects of education policy during this parliamentary term and under this government. Firstly, this is going in the wrong direction from the point of view of education policy. The reason why this law is now being adopted is that, at the initiative of the Minister of Education, this admission test reform has been carried out in cooperation with universities and the procedure has caused so much surprise that even representatives of the government parties left a written question on the subject, and now, as it were, these changes in legislation and the structure of the matriculation examination are being made as a result of the reform. This will, of course, lead to a situation where no proper impact assessments have been carried out on this whole, nor has there been a wider debate on education and training policy as to where all these individual changes will lead. As a result, the government is now proposing to increase the complexity of the matriculation examination, and I am particularly surprised at the position of the Greens on this proposal, because these good amendments to this law would be acceptable without raising the minimum number of tests to be carried out. As we know, stress and stress are already a very big problem for upper secondary school students, and this is already evident at an earlier stage during upper secondary school education due to the fact that the weight of the matriculation examination has been increased all the time, which is already conducive to increasing stress when a person has to consider, for example, the choice of courses from the first year on, according to what is to be written in the matriculation examination. This is not a general direction for the development of upper secondary school education, but rather takes the opposite direction. This is being done in spite of the fact that this increases the level of ambition and hence the strain, and despite the fact that it makes it difficult for adult students and double graduates, that is to say, the status of a group of students who have otherwise been sought to help and thereby increase the number of young people and adults who have completed the matriculation examination. The benefits and disadvantages are not balanced, and perhaps the most problematic thing is that this is yet another change that differentiates between the different pathways of our secondary education, which means that, as a result, secondary school education and vocational education are now differentiated rather than developing the second level as a whole. For these reasons, I support the amendments tabled in the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u147	Värderade Talman! Den rai lagen är bra framför allt ändamålsenlig om man enbart tittar på studenttexamen och på gymnasieutbildningen. Den allmänbildande functional stärks i och med lagen. Dossutom kommenter högskolorna i framtiden att beakta fem ämnen i urvalsproven och då är det logiskt att minikravet att skriva fem ämnen i ställett för fyra, såsom nu, införs. Redan i dag skriver 80 percent av alla abiturienter fem eller fler amnen. Men det ska sägas att tuvaterr innehåller det rai lagförslaget en baksida som jag anser vara värd att namnas och diskuteras också i plenum. Kraven på dem som avlägger två examina, student- och yrkesexamen, och på vuxenstuderande kan bli för stora. I utskottshörandet fördes fram oro och rädsla för att lagen kommer att minska på intresset att avlägga studenttexamen bland just de toi TVå grupperna. Man ska komma ihåg också att av dem som skriver två examina är det enbart 29 percent som i dag skriver fem eller ämnen i studenttexamen. Den auri oron bör tas på allvar och därför tycker jag att det är oerhört bra att vi har tags in en uppföljningsklausul.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u148	Mr President! When I have not been in committee to hear experts, I have to say that I am a little surprised at why the fifth substance must be made compulsory, when the majority of it is already being carried out. That will not bring the benefits that have been thought of, but it is known that it will harm those who undertake a double degree or who are adult students. So, in a way, when you weigh this, the question remains: why is it mandatory if it is already so widespread? I think it would be extremely important to look at the second stage as a whole, at secondary school education and vocational education in parallel, and when we are doing reforms, we should look at that whole thing. I myself come from a town where we have combined vocational education and upper secondary school education with the same administrative structure, and it has produced only good things. It has produced cost savings, but it has also produced alternatives for students. I consider a double degree to be the best possible insurance for the future working life, because it provides capabilities for both sides as it were, and from that point of view it seems sad that this reform may make a double degree less attractive and may even prevent it from being carried out, although on the contrary it should be combined with these two things, especially if it is so that the studies of the fifth matriculation examination cannot be used in any way there on the vocational basic degree side. It would be extremely important for us in education at all to be able to combine different things and to make better use of what has already been learned in another degree. I guess that's the whole idea of our conversion training and retraining and various module trainings that have been developed in this country. In fact, even though education can by no means only be for working life but is for people's lives and for their own abilities and for the future, it is also relevant from the perspective of working life. That is why I am, in a way, sad that this high school diploma did not become more strongly written in order to be one of these matriculation examination subjects. We know that Finland needs creativity and it needs innovation and it needs new ideas, and we cannot force it at school, but we can create conditions that feed our creativity. If you study arts and creative materials and know-how, then you create those conditions and the skills, the interaction skills and other things that are created through the arts, we need in life and we need in working life. It would therefore have been extremely important for the high school diploma to become a major part of the matriculation examination and to be fed more. It is good that it is being clarified, but it is, in a way, a pity that it has been left out of the picture at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u149	Mr President! Upper secondary school education plays a huge role in our school system. This increase in the number of subjects included in the matriculation examination from four to five has perhaps rightly been questioned here. It has been wondered, too, that already about 80 percent of the subjects are five. If this is considered positively, this too, that it is raised to five, may be of considerable importance to the general public over a long period of time. It is also important that our high school network is kept dense throughout the country, that a functioning high school network that serves people's needs well is kept. It is worrying that, on the professional side, the network has been quite concentrated at the moment. The upper secondary school network is still fairly dense, and it is very important for Finland as a whole to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u150	Mr President! There has been talk here of second-degree reflection as a whole. I couldn't agree more. I hope that the forthcoming reforms will no longer make so much reform of the high school sector and of the professional sector, but that we will find common bridges in them, that is a good idea. Mr Andersson's criticism is also quite right that this marching order is not the idea here. Of course, the starting point should always be that legislative reforms are being carried out in this house and then, for example, those admission test systems react to them. This is the other way around. However, the question is not quite simple, because there is that autonomy in the higher education sector, and that too is the case here. But a well-founded idea, and a more correct starting point, of course, would be this way. Well, then the idea of this high school diploma came up here. In my opinion, it is quite strongly stated here, in other words, it makes a statement that ‘it is necessary to clarify the transformation of the school diploma system to all providers of training and to introduce the necessary legislative measures’. As a statement, I think it's a very strong thing to say. I myself would go even further outside this report in this process of refining high-school diplomacy-type thinking. I would think that alongside the current matriculation examination, a system would be developed in which a high school student could constantly demonstrate his or her own competence, collect his or her own portfolio, his or her own file, and then demonstrate to the university his or her own maturity, which he or she has achieved during high school, for example, through essays or studies that cross the boundaries of the subjects, and through it could do as if a minigrade even inside the upper secondary school. I think there is a lot to develop here. The principle of general education, which was strongly highlighted here, is indeed important and must be a central starting point for our high school in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u151	Mr President! After a long and thorough consideration, the Finns of Peru have also agreed with this objection to the report and the proposed amendment to it, which would maintain the scope of the matriculation examination at the current level. Even in the event of this objection, the proposed amendment to the article would, of course, retain the possibility for high school students to write considerably more than four subjects, just as they do now. I would like to stress that we too believe that students should be encouraged to study as comprehensively as possible and to increase general education, but, in particular, forcing the weakest students to do so by means of legislation is perhaps a rather strange approach, especially since, as is typical of the Sipilä Government, the impact assessments of this government's proposal are also quite inadequate, according to expert opinions. As far as this university admission test requirement, on which much has been said, I think it is often possible to get in if you have achieved good scores on three subjects in the matriculation examination. From the point of view of universities, I believe that five subjects are not required to be completed today, but this law governing the matriculation examination will result in this happening in the future, which will make the status of students more difficult. These problematic groups, as has been pointed out here, are specifically students with dual degrees, students studying in upper secondary schools for adults and, more generally, students at risk of exclusion. And there is a great fear that with the implementation of the bill, the exclusion of young people could increase. We do not think that this risk should be taken. This original government proposal also provided the opportunity to complete an English matriculation examination. However, it was removed from the proposal during the committee reading because it was considered that it contained considerable doubts about the constitutionality of the proposal from the point of view of the status of national languages. I believe that this unanimous decision by the committee was well-founded and correct in this regard. Mr President! Finally, I agree with the view expressed here that it is important to maintain a comprehensive upper secondary school network throughout the country, so that students have a much better choice of upper secondary school studies.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u152	Mr President! A comment on this general education, which I too consider to be a fundamental principle of upper secondary education, but I am alien to the idea that general education is only increased by the number of compulsory matriculation examination subjects, i.e. that its educational function is determined according to the number of subjects to be written in the matriculation examination. It is true that general education is created through what a young person studies in high school during the three years and how extensive we have, for example, compulsory courses in different fields and in different subjects. On the contrary, the more emphasis is placed on matriculation examination and matriculation examination, the more likely it is to lead to a development in which, even in the first year of upper secondary school, a young person will have to decide what I will write in the matriculation examination and, for example, in the long-term subjects where there are many courses, he will choose to focus on those subjects rather than study in a wider range of subjects of interest. I also find it contradictory that this government, which, with very poor preparation, has also carried out this experiment of electiveness in high school, i.e. made it possible for young people to exclude many subjects, is now talking about the importance of general education in this process of raising the minimum number of examinations for matriculation examination, because, at least until now, this development policy for secondary education has been one that has also been criticised by many teachers and educational experts for reducing the general function of the upper secondary school and, on the contrary, represents more of this type of pipe examination thinking even then at the second stage, which, from the point of view of the young person's ability to further study and learn, would also be the most important thing in terms of getting the strongest and comprehensive generalism possible for a young person to continue his or her studies at the third stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u153	Mr President! Of course, it is absolutely crucial to general education what is being studied during these three or four years, but as a committee we could not quite ignore the opinion of the Student Qualifications Board that they believe that the four subjects, the current model, which is currently in force, do not adequately measure this general function. I do not think we can quite ignore that either, and although there are risks, duubies, fears, we are therefore prepared to support this bill. In my opinion, it will be crucial how, in practice, there can be support in everyday life for those who complete two degrees and for adult students. And once again, it is quite clear that student guidance rises to a whole new light and a lot of student guidance is needed. Then, of course, such models, which are used in Hämeenlinna, make sense because they are certainly the most capable of supporting all students and creating flexible study paths and working together.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u154	Mr President! Our future well-being is built on increasing the level of competence of all Finns, and we need to ensure that each young person has at least a vocational or upper secondary school degree in his pocket, because because of the great change in working life that we are living in, it is very difficult to find employment at comprehensive school. It is a well-known fact that over the last 30 years, as many as 600,000 jobs have been lost with a basic school base, i.e. only 30% of primary jobs remain. It is quite clear that basic education of this time requires at least upper secondary education, either vocational or upper secondary education. However, as many as 15 per cent of young people in Finland do not have that secondary degree in their pocket by the age of 25, and only less than half of those in primary school depend on it, or about 43 per cent at work. It would therefore be necessary to ensure that everyone has at least this upper secondary degree in order to be employed. It is precisely because of this issue that it is very difficult to accept that this government bill now makes it difficult to complete a high school degree, for example for dual degrees, for upper secondary schools for adults or for those who have difficulty learning. This is something that has been said many times here. It is very difficult to understand why such short-sighted policies are being implemented. This is indeed a short-sighted change and does not contribute to the important national objective of our Finns that we have a higher level of education and, at the same time, a higher employment rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u155	Mr President! I was still thinking of responding to Mr Nylander in relation to general education and whether there is a need to change the degree or not for this reason. As has been pointed out in many speeches, more than 80% are already writing more than five subjects. In this respect, I believe that the potential benefits that this change can bring are relatively small compared to the disadvantages that this may entail in a situation where this makes it difficult for adult students or young people with double qualifications. I also think that it is significant that the working group which examines the various options for the renewal of the matriculation examination did not in fact put forward this model of at least five tests directly, but tried to build a proposal which, as if it had taken into account those students who, for one reason or another, did not have the time or the ability to carry out five tests, with four tests which, however, had less freedom of choice. In other words, it presented a combination of four and five experiments, as it were, which was not entirely unproblematic either, but which nevertheless shows that it was as if we were aware of the problems that this government-driven solution could bring with it to many young and adult students.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u156	Mr President! Thank you to the honourable Members — very good reflection and criticism in relation to this proposal. Education and culture are the basis and basis for all development, as said to me yesterday at the meeting of the Finland-Namibia friendship group, the Namibian mayor and the Ambassador of Namibia, when we talked about how to bring other countries to the same level as Finland, for example. In Finland, however, we must be grateful for the progress we have made, but we must always do better. I was enthusiastic about what Mr Nylander said, and it was this general education, which he stressed, and what an important basis it will provide for people to continue their lives in general. I also think a little about it from the point of view that if a young person wants to be at the top of the world in sport, then it is as important as possible that he has tried a few different kinds of sport and developed it in many ways, and in the same way, it is good to develop his head in such a way that he knows widely and then perhaps at some point he will silo what he himself is genuinely interested in, and he wants to make a contribution to it. I'm still making use of it. I am in favour of making use of upper secondary school studies. I think that has already come up in some speech. Just as I left the thesis, I talked to one person about having at least a great time when I was able to take advantage of my own work experience, getting seven credits with it when you had already been working. I didn't need that course to be completed, so to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u157	Mr President! I think Congressman Andersson referred to the work of the Gaudeamus igitur working group, where they made it possible to write four subjects of this kind, which was subsequently rejected. I do not remember whether Mr Andersson was then on the committee — as a rule you are, you are a very hard-working representative, but did you at that time just overlap — when this Gaudeamus igitur group, whether the chairman and vice-chairman were on the committee. They no longer supported that model but appealed very strongly to the model of five tests. It can also be found in the written statements already published that they strongly support the model of five articles, precisely on this basis of general education and because, now that the selection system has changed, they considered it necessary. Then what has not yet been in this Chamber in the debate should still be said: After all, this must not be an obstacle to anyone not being able to become a matriculation student, and for that reason there is this compensation system, that if a substance becomes abandoned, then writing a little better about another subject will still make it possible to become a matriculation examination. I consider this to be extremely important because I am in favour of dual degrees, adult upper secondary school education and of having the opportunity to become a matriculation student and if they wish to continue their studies afterwards. This was underlined by the committee in its report.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u158	Mr President! In conclusion, I wanted to read one sentence in our good and comprehensive report: ‘The slow-down of students in continuing their studies is a major problem at present, since about 70 per cent’. —70 per cent—‘new students were not immediately placed in post-secondary training for Yes, if thought is given to those who go to school and That's what it is. Then, of course, I am aware of all these challenges, but I believe that there are some very positive points here that will enable us to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u159	Mr President! As I said, I do not quite see how this is an improvement from the point of view of their students, because, as has already been mentioned several times in the debate, the majority of young people are already writing at least five tests. As far as Mr Puumala's speech is concerned, once again I think that this is the main problem, which is to say that we are now responding to this admission test reform. That is why I mentioned the various models of this working group that I thought it was an illustrative example of an attempt to apply for such a composite solution and, as we also said in committee, it is quite true that there were problems with regard to, for example, the mutual appreciation of different substances, which in some way would have changed in this five and four model, at least in the case of real substances. However, we are now moving to a system where the minimum number of tests to be carried out is raised for all, despite the fact that we are aware that for this smaller group which is trying to conduct a double examination or for those who have a matriculation examination in adulthood, this may make it considerably more difficult to complete that qualification. In my opinion, it is not right for the decision-makers to say that we thought, well, that you would still be able to graduate so that you could compensate for an abandoned test. Of course it is an opportunity, but it cannot be the solution that we are now sending to these students, as it were, as a solution to the potential mishaps and risks to which this government bill is likely to lead.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u160	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 27/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u161	Mr President! In many ways this presentation is very much to be expected and good. Strong e-identification services enable the use of digital services by several authorities, and making this possible for all people on an equal footing has been problematic at present. For example, electronic prescriptions and viewing patient data from the Omakanta service are only possible using strong eID services. I myself have received feedback from a woman who acts as a family carer and guardian of her mother. She was given the opportunity to use her mother’s banking credentials to manage her mother’s affairs, both to look at health records and to renew recipes. However, it happened that the bank removed the right to these bank credentials from him, and since the mother was in such poor condition that she could no longer apply herself for a photo ID card through which other forms of identification would have been possible, in practice they had no access to these e-services. In this time it is not right that, as we increasingly switch to electronic services in a wide range of services, not everyone has equal access to them. It's not right. One such group is also disabled people who may have difficulties using these electronic services on an equal footing. That is why I am very pleased that the Administrative Committee has considered that there are strong social criteria for this proposed regulation, and that these proposed extensions of the scope of application are also fulfilling commitments under the UN CRPD, and this is, of course, important. I do not know if there is anyone in the Chamber who has been dealing with this matter in the Committee on Administration, but I would have liked to make sure and check that there is no such thing as a narrow person left behind now, in which people could then continue to find themselves in a situation where, for reasons beyond their own control — for example, because the person is in such poor condition that he is unable to apply for services in any other way — would be completely deprived of these possibilities for electronic service provision? I hope that is not the case. I hope that this has been the subject of an in-depth review in committee, and that these perhaps marginal, individual cases have been understood, but the need for amendments to the law which are extremely important to the smooth running of people's daily lives and which have now been taken into account and able to be amended. That's what I'm hoping for.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u162	Mr President! Mr Salonen raised the very important points which I am still a little concerned about. While we are trying to take this enlargement into account in this report too, so that everyone has the opportunity and does not have these narrowities and routes that people do not have access to services, we must at the same time take into account the fact that we have 420 000 people who are in the enforcement of health centre and hospital fees and others, and their credit records have gone, and it often prevents us from accessing these digital e-services. For that, we would need even more and more tough and better instruments so that we cannot have the banks defining whether it is a credit default that will then prevent these services from being provided — and especially when it comes to enforcement. At some point we have allowed the banks to sort out its so-called identification in online banks and also in parts of public services. Of course, legislation has now been developed and these possibilities have been increased. However, even at the moment we are already able to do this in the Omanta service, which was a good point for the government, and it was managed in such a way that it is possible, but our systems do not work in this country. Even at the moment we have an underage child's parent, or if you are a guardian, a local register office decided on or granted by proxy, it is not possible to have an electronic health-related representation. To that end, I would hope that when the next government program is made... Or, of course, I would like to express my deep desire that the government, in its amending budget, should be able to allocate more resources to that sector so that this development can be carried forward so that they can respond to this day so that this pro-health aspect can also be achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u163	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 30/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u164	Mr President! This amendment to the VAT Act is extensive in volume but of a very technical and political nature. This introduces amendments to the VAT Act to automate and simplify the tax collection procedure applicable to special VAT arrangements in relation to tax procedures otherwise applicable to own-initiative taxes. These changes mainly concern the tax payable to Finland by a taxable person who has been identified in another Member State. This is linked to a long-standing "Preparatory" project by the Tax Administration aimed at improving productivity. This will achieve cost savings of EUR 5 million and 100 person-years on an annual basis, as proposed by this government. The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u165	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 31/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u166	Mr President! Here, too, there is a need to follow the ‘short-term’ presentation formula. The purpose of this Government proposal is to obtain the approval of Parliament for a multilateral convention signed by Finland on 7 June 2017 together with 67 other countries. The agreement is part of the OECD's extensive BEPS project on tax base erosion and the prevention of profit transfer. This agreement implements those BEPS measures, and Parliament's consent is also necessary for the reservations and notifications contained in the agreement in Finland. There is an objection to this, including three proposals for statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u167	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 32/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u168	Mr President! This, too, in a short formula. The purpose of this proposal is to transpose the so-called EU Disputes Directive into national law. This will be done through the adoption of a new law on the settlement of international tax disputes. It includes comprehensive procedures to be followed in the dispute resolution procedure under the Directive, and the new law also includes new provisions on the implementation of the ruling reached in the tax dispute. According to the directive, these changes will have to be brought into force nationally by the end of next June at the latest. This committee's report is practically unanimous, although it contains a large number of amendments to the articles. However, they are quite technical or similar. A significant part of the need for change has come from the Tax Department of the Ministry of Finance because the proposal has been very difficult to prepare. Even during the parliamentary procedure, there has been a need to make some clarifications.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u169	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report TyVM 12/2018 vp by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u170	Mr President! This law is about data protection in working life. The Government's proposal proposes to amend the law as a result of the Data Protection Regulation, the repeal of the Personal Data Act and the amendment of the Criminal Code. In addition, it is proposed that the existing law be reviewed in relation to the investigation of the criminal background of those working with children. And in future, the processing of personal data in employment relationships must be carried out in parallel with the Data Protection Regulation, in line with the new Data Protection Act and as a special law on data protection in working life. The committee considers this whole proposal to be very necessary, but in fact there was a bit of a problem in that committee hearing from the point of view of this law. When an employer collects information about an employee, the main rule is that it is primarily to ask the employee himself. And if the employer collects personal data from someone other than the employee himself, then consent must be obtained from the employee. However, that consent is not required if the authority discloses information to the employer for the purpose of carrying out the duties provided for by this law or when the employer acquires credit information or criminal record data for the purposes of determining the reliability of the employee. In the course of our committee consultation it became clear that the interpretation of the data protection officer has actually been one for which some clarification is needed. The Data Protection Supervisor hoped that the law would be clarified, but it was not in this government proposal. And it has happened that the Data Protection Supervisor in his decision-making practices has justified the determination of reliability without the employee's consent. In this regard, he has looked at the arguments behind the previous government proposal and used it as a basis. However, with regard to that previous proposal, the Parliament actually changed the provision in question. Nevertheless, our interpretation has been to use the explanatory statement of the government's proposal, that is to say, even though the Parliament amended the provision in question, and then it would be logical to use the parliamentary report rather than the detailed argument that has changed in the parliamentary procedure. That is why the committee considers it extremely important that we consider and refine this whole legislation so that it is in place. In addition to paragraph 4 of the first law, we made a further clarification, which is worded as follows: ‘The Commission requires that, without delay,the Government should clarify the need for possible changes to Article 4(l)(l)(l)(l)() of the Regulation on the protection of privacy in working life,which provides for a level playing field between the protection of the privacy of workers and the processing The preparation shall take into account the interpretation practice of the Data Protection Supervisor, the evolution of legislation and, where appropriate, the proposal for a Directive on the protection of persons reporting breaches of Union law.’ The committee itself considered that:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u171	Mr President! Mr Filatov has already presented this bill very well. There are minor problems here, but I am sure that this clarification of the current law in this respect, as the government's proposal has been made and then the committee's report on the collection of this information is, in general, quite appropriate. But I would like to draw attention to a little point on the issue of the law on the investigation of the criminal background of those working with children in general. After all, in the current law, the criminal record of people working with children and minors for less than three months a year cannot even be verified if they wish. This is the interpretation of the wording of the law today, and it has also given rise to a lot of discussion among parents. I have therefore taken a legislative initiative on this issue last autumn, which would make the obligation to present a criminal record also apply to shorter working relationships, and this has also been the subject of debate during parliamentary Question Time last autumn. If I remember correctly now — and I am quite sure I remember correctly — then Minister of Justice Häkkänen promised to intervene and clarify this matter very quickly in October and then, if necessary, to bring the government's proposal on this subject to the House during this parliamentary term. Unfortunately, however, now that we have a little more than five weeks left in the Chamber, it seems that this issue is not progressing at all. Of course, the Minister of Justice is not here, but when these greetings perhaps go some way forward, I would like to see Mr Häkkänen bring this little change of law to Parliament on a very short time. It would certainly be a good addition to this current state of legislation in many respects and would also reassure many parents whose children, for example, are in day care, and of course also clarify the position of employers and workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u172	A 16th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u173	Mr President! This bill deals with an interesting issue in general, namely the treatment of a small tax advantage. On the other hand, is it worth collecting if the financial benefit from the collection is low; on the other hand, what does it mean not to collect, from the moral point of view of tax payments? It is interesting in itself that in my opinion the SDP in general is in favour of improving tax-paying morality rather than weakening it. However, this initiative contains a specific ideological starting point, which supports or seeks to specifically support the use of electric cars ideologically, without justifying it on a factual basis. In addition, I would like to point out that, in the future, the financial importance of this tax advantage may not be as small as it is now being mentioned in this initiative, when the electric car will certainly be subsidised or inevitably increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u174	Mr President! Thus, the amendment of Article 64 of the Income Tax Act is proposed in such a way that the advantage offered by the employer to the employee by the electric car is tax-free. I have little sympathy for this initiative in the light of the fact that the Social Democrats have made a rather hilarious promise of a rapid increase in the number of electric cars and, in order for this to happen, all the small berries must be gathered from the country so that citizens and even employers took part in these efforts. The proposal in itself is quite good, but of course the bill will die as a bill for these elections, and after the election the new government will consider these carrots of all kinds, which will help to reduce tax revenue. But the objective is, of course, to be supported in a certain way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u175	Mr President! I think we are committed together to trying to mitigate climate change and also to certain objectives. But I would just say that if we are concerned about the economic effects that this is going to have, if electric motoring grows more strongly, is it not the idea, in environmental taxes, to bring about a change in people's behaviour and then, once it has been achieved, to consider whether it is still relevant at that stage?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u176	Mr President! It is precisely here that the problem is that, if we now go through fiscal and legislative measures in particular to boost electric motoring as technology and are not technologically neutral, we will be faced with the question of whether it is the electric car that is the one that can best control climate change, because something must produce the electricity that the electric car uses, and the electric car must be made with its batteries, and that also puts a burden on the environment. In these tax advantages, there is often the idea that this must now be taxed, such as a parking advantage. However, the fact is that parking today is very expensive in different cities and the value of such an advantage can be up to hundreds of euros per year.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u177	Mr President! In short, with regard to this debate on electric cars, I would say that if this 750,000 electric cars I would say were to achieve a rather unrealistic goal, it is true that, of course, that electricity will probably eventually come from that plug or charging plug, but in some way it must be produced. Then how is that electricity produced? Of course, whether it is environmentally friendly or not depends very much on the way it is produced. Of course, nuclear power is emission-free, but then if this entire electric vehicle charging capacity, which is now required for this 750,000 electric car, were to be implemented and used at the same time, for example, during winter time, it would then require the construction of up to three new nuclear power plants. That is quite a requirement now, given that the Areva nuclear power plant project, Olkiluoto, has already been ten years late and when it will be completed, whether it will be completed at the beginning of the next decade or not, remains to be seen. However, the costs have increased several times as much as originally planned. Then, if you take into account the way in which batteries are produced in electric cars — it is very resource-intensive — I would say that this debate on electric cars does not take into account all the facts that should also be considered from an environmental point of view. To the extent that I return to this nuclear power plant debate, when Finland is already heavily dependent on imported electricity, especially in the frosts, the price of electricity would necessarily and inevitably increase if these electric cars were to come into really large-scale use.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u178	The 17th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u179	Mr President! This bill deals with an important topic on the terms and conditions of mining in our country. This is a timely issue, of course, due to the warning example of Winterfell, but other mining projects or such plans have also raised concerns about environmental impacts across the country. On the other hand, it is also a question of how our national property, or soil minerals, in particular can be used by foreigners and how their mineral use should be taxed. Personally, I am in favour of the principle that responsibility for the environment should be borne by mining operators and not the responsibility for society, and that taxes should be levied on minerals that are mined from our country and that they should remain in Finland. I cannot say straight away how comprehensive this proposal is in terms of realising these objectives, but I hope in any case that such legislative changes in order to tighten up the mining law and related laws will proceed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u180	Mr President! I, together with Vice-President Vähämäki of the Committee on Finance, have signed this Haraka bill and I say that this bill does not directly concern mining tax in the sense that we may have had a debate on the matter, but this would ensure that Finland can tax profits from mining permits and other permits for the exploitation of natural resources when their owner is a foreign resident or a foreign entity. Currently, Finland does not at all tax the profits of mining rights if the rights are recorded in the name of a foreign company. The current situation gives foreign exploration companies a significant competitive advantage compared to domestic operators. In particular, the fact that a mining company that buys a mining permit from a mining company can deduct the price paid for a mining permit from the taxable profits generated by mining activities. Thus, Finland cannot tax profits, but the corresponding depreciation can be deducted from taxable income. This allows international groups to engage in aggressive tax planning. It is known that some foreign mining companies have invested Finnish mining permits in the names of a foreign subsidiary and have arranged their ownership in intra-group corporate arrangements in connection with tax planning. This change would strengthen the tax base and be in line with the general principles of international taxation, according to which income from natural resources and other fixed assets can always be taxed in the State where the property is located. This is because mining is based on the exploitation of mining minerals classified as national assets. Mr President! This is a good initiative and deserves good treatment, but, as I said in the previous paragraph, this cannot be taken forward during this parliamentary term, but I believe that in the next government negotiations, perhaps the Finns of Finland, together with the Social Democrats, we can make a government programme record on this matter, which will also deal with this issue of our national wealth, so that it can be put in order in the best interests of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u182	The 18th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u183	Mr President! This is about hunting and clarifying it. Article 33 of the Hunting Act was reformed during the previous parliamentary term. The amendment entered into force on 1 August 2015. The justification for the law is a record of food baits — cereals fields, game fields, game pastures — which makes it very difficult to comply with the law in hunting. You can start hunting for bears from the grain field, but you must not shoot the bear in the crop field, where the harvest is not yet harvested. From the game pasture, the game field or their proximity to the bear hunt shall not be initiated. It is interpreted by law as the use of a food inducer. In hunting the bear there are often hunting areas where there are grain fields, game pastures and game fields within short distances. In such an area, bear hunting is unnecessarily difficult under current legislation. One of the main problems with bear hunting is that this proximity to game pasture or game field is not specifically mentioned in the hunting law or regulation. Is proximity 50 or 500 meters or something else? In some provinces, local police are asked to interpret, even if the police are not a lawmaker. However, in the event of a potential hunting crime, the police are both the instigator and the perpetrator of the pre-trial investigation. The police may give a different answer to hunters when asking in each province because they have not previously had a separate instruction, an interpretation. This is not in line with the principles of equality or equity of hunters. Bear hunting favours dog hunting, which is not only safe but also effective. In such hunting, however, it is impossible for a hunter to ensure in advance that a dog does not take a bear near a prohibited game pasture or game field. It is often too late to interrupt the hunt on the basis of radar sightings when the bear has already come before the passers. If the bear could be hunted from the hunting tower to the field, then bear hunting would be the safest thing. This would make the bullet’s flight angle the safest, and the branches and sticks would not stand in the way of the bullet. This would also reduce the damage done by the bear in the field. However, according to my discussions, this is not going to work for the ministry's officials. As such, the amendment to Section 33 of the Hunting Act has resulted in a reported rush to the police about hunters in the vicinity of game fields, among others. Secondly, the change unnecessarily complicates the hunting of bears. I do not think that legislation should create situations for hunters which make it impossible to maintain game fields and, at the same time, to put into practice the legitimate hunting of bears. In the event of a possible pre-trial investigation, the hunter is even suspected of committing a serious hunting crime. The hunter will be seized and the right to hunt arrested. Even if the hunter is released at a later stage of the preliminary investigation or in court proceedings, the suspicion that the hunter and even his family were already guilty during the investigation and processing has caused undue harm even as a result of difficulties in getting a job. Article 33 of the Hunting Act provides for generally prohibited hunting gears and methods of hunting. This bill proposes to amend the hunting law by adding paragraph 4 to Article 33, which provides for the use of the lure of a vulture or of a bear based on human nutrition or smell for hunting when a bear is shot not more than 200 metres from the waste or lure. The purpose of the bill is to clarify the interpretation of the current law. According to Article 33(2) of the Hunting Act, hunting must not be used as a waste nor as a lure for a bear based on man-made food or smell, nor may a bear be shot from a field from which the harvest has not been harvested, except in the field of grass. Therefore, both eligible and smaller game fields are considered as food inducers prohibited in bear hunting. The bear must not be shot in the field and must not be used in hunting by the bear’s habit of going in the field, starting hunting there or hunting on the bear’s way around such a field. When investigating a suspected hunting offence, the preliminary investigation authority, the prosecutor and the judiciary must interpret the provisions of the law on the basis of the wording and presentations of the provisions in force and the related report 33/2014 vp of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Parliament. However, neither of them gives exhaustive answers to the interpretation of the provisions in border cases, so the aim of clarifying the provisions is not particularly well-fulfilled, which is regrettable, not only from the point of view of controls, but especially from the point of view of hunting. When the use of waste or lure is not defined by law or in any way in its performances, the supervisory authorities, prosecutors and courts will have to define the limit ex post in each individual case. This may lead to suspicion, prosecution and conviction of another hunter when shooting is a mile away from a scavenger or a decoy, while one may avoid action when shooting takes place, say, a hundred meters away. The situation is unsustainable for the individual hunter and, more generally, for compliance with the law. According to Section 1 of Chapter 3 of the Criminal Code, a criminal offence may be considered guilty only on the basis of an act expressly provided for by the law at the time of the offence. This so-called principle of legality does not currently apply to waste or lure when a hunter cannot, by reading the law book, determine when he may commit a crime. An interpretation recommendation has already been issued to the police in Eastern Finland on 29 July 2015, which will guide the investigation of suspected hunting offences in bear hunting when suspected of hunting using a waste or lure. According to it, it would be in principle appropriate to suspect a crime when a waste or lure is detected within a range of 200 metres, i.e. a maximum distance from the shooting or landfill. The recommendation for interpretation in the area of the Eastern Finland Police Department is not valid in the areas of other police services, nor can the person hunting in the area of this police station be confident that the prosecutor or the court will interpret the provision in the same way. I think this recommendation for the interpretation of the Eastern Finland Police Department is a good one, and the maximum number of metres of this recommendation should be set at the level of the law. I would therefore like to add paragraph 4 to Article 33 of the Hunting Act, which would read as follows: ‘The use of a waste or a man-made lure for hunting based on food or smell, as referred to in point 3(a) above, is to be carried out when a bear is shot not more than 200 metres from the waste or lure.’
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u184	Mr President! The bill of representative Kulmala, that precise, proper police representative, would improve the ability of pre-trial investigation authorities throughout the country to intervene equally and uniformly in suspected hunting offences. A bill to be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u185	Mr President! To conclude, a little more on my legislative initiative — or actually on my written question. I put a written question to the Minister on this matter as early as 2015. I asked if the government was going to specify Article 33 of the Hunting Act. 'in such a way that the crop and the field of game are equal to the area of cereals. The Minister then replied, inter alia, on the game fields: ‘According to the view of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry,the purpose of the legislation was to ensure that the game was considered to be prohibited as a food incentive in bear hunting,which is Therefore, they must not be used in the hunting of bears. In the final analysis, however, the court shall interpret the law as to whether the individual case has been hunted using a food inducer deliberately or negligently contrary to the law.’ Mr President! It is quite extraordinary that whether hunting is lawful or not is due to the interpretation of the court and, before that, of course, to the prosecutor and the preliminary investigation authority. The hunting law should be simple and easy to comply with and will be facilitated by this change in the law, even if the change is very small.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u186	A 19th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u187	Mr President! In my bill, I propose that Chapter 17 of the Criminal Code be added to Article 7d. by transferring the section of the current foreign law in which it is Article 185. In the Aliens Act, it is in the form that a foreigner who illegally stays in Finland without appropriate documents is guilty of a foreigner’s offence and is punished by a fine. When, according to the motion, this foreign offence was transferred to Chapter 17, Section 7d of the Criminal Code, it would at the same time be laid down as a fine or a maximum of six months in prison. This Chapter 17 of the Penal Code has recently been amended so that, from the beginning of this year, it appears that Article 7 of the State Border Crime, Article 7b of the entry ban and Article 7c of the Regional Violation provide for more severe criminal offences. It is logical that foreign crime should also be regulated in this same series, because it is very logical to do so. Mr President! We currently estimate that there are 10,000 former asylum seekers who have been rejected, i.e. under the legislation in force in Finland they are not entitled to asylum and therefore do not have a residence permit or the necessary documents for residence in Finland. This figure of 10,000 is rising to perhaps 15,000, which is a huge number of illegal people in the country, and they have a certain basic security, including the cities and the parliament. Such a group represents a major financial burden in this situation, and there are also questions of security that need to be considered. Mr President! When the penalty for a foreign offence is currently a fine, we know that these illegals do not pay the fines. In other words, when they are in practice also in a situation where they are not allowed to work in Finland, the same section prohibits work, they do not have legal income, and when there is no legal income, there is certainly no way that fines can be collected. Therefore, if we do so, as is the case with the motion, that is to say, transfer this to the Criminal Code and impose a possible prison sentence of no more than six months, then an effective weapon in this respect can be made available to curb this lawlessness. I believe that this would have a significant preventive effect on this problem. There are other factors. After all, a foreigner can be detained in accordance with the current law, and it may be that this six-month period is not enough for actual detention unless there is a suspicion of crime, but in any case this side of the issue would have a certain amount of posture in relation to what the current situation is. Mr President! This is one part of the package on which I have taken the initiative and two written questions last week and the other week. First of all, in the measure initiative, I proposed that the removal from safe countries without the relevant documents to Finland would be intensified. Prime Minister Sipilä said that it would then have been possible to turn asylum seekers from safe countries, such as Sweden, from the border. Minister Orpo felt the exact opposite. I asked this question to clarify whether or not it is. In addition, I have put forward a policy initiative and the question of the Finnish Government taking action on the return of these 10,000, or whatever it is, not to their unsafe homelands, but to safe countries and refugee camps close to their home countries, where women, children and the elderly are, and young men are in Finland. I believe that this situation is totally unacceptable. These measures can be taken and our Constitution will not prevent them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u188	Mr President! I got startled today when I looked at the agenda and saw the title, and that was exactly the same title as I took the bill on 29 March 2017, a couple of years ago. At that time I made a bill of law for the amendment of Section 185 of the Aliens Act and Chapter 17 of the Criminal Code. Since the beginning of this year, a new provision has been introduced in the Criminal Code on the violation of the entry ban. In the past, infringement of the ban has generally been subject to a penalty for foreign offenders, and in future, since the beginning of the year, infringement of the ban will result in a fine or a maximum of one year’s imprisonment. After all, on the basis of my legislative initiative, these experiences of the foreign police and the reports of colleagues who have been constantly since then on the repeated violation of this ban on entry and, as Mr Kankaanniemi said, the fines will not be paid and it will be difficult to collect them anyway. But this came as a glad tidings, and I can tell you that the law has come into force since the beginning of the year. This is where Mr Kankaanniemi proposes the same legal provisions to be changed with the idea that those who are, as it were, illegally staying in this country, who have received a negative asylum decision, those who have been given a proselytism decision, who do not leave voluntarily, will be able to do something about it. Is that how I understand it? And it immediately comes to mind this kind of thing, the basic principle of legality. After all, the basic principles of justice are that the new provision cannot be applied retroactively. Since this came to me today as a little fresh matter, I find it rather unusual when there are already those people here that we should then have such a law. Then can we apply it? Will we have constitutional matters? Have we considered this at all? It seems to be a very difficult matter. And yet, while Mr Kankaanniemi was concerned about these, he said that some 10,000 people would now be illegally present in this country, one way or another. It's true, and the police are worried about it, and everyone else is thinking about it. It is clear that if there is no legal possibility of residence, then there is an easy opportunity to get caught up in crime. However, this amount, 10,000, must be thought of in practical terms. I met more than a dozen colleagues here in foreign law enforcement and drug control, and that is such valuable work. They're such professional men. They know all the doors in the capital region, so to speak, and they know where they live, where they have the turnover and so forth. However, Finland is a small country in itself. There are small circles here. I would say that the 10,000 in this weather, given the winter conditions in Finland, yes, I say that this figure is probably not true. But all the same, it occurred to me that since this was exactly the same thing, there was a question here with a few colleagues as to whether the idea of colleagues was quoted here, as Mr Savio already mentioned today in paragraph 15 of the basic Finnish bill that Laiho had such a bill to amend Article 2 of the Law on the Settlement of Crimes with Children. There was already talk of it at the time, so such considerations came to mind. [Sami Savio requests reply] Yesterday, in an elderly debate, we heard how the Finns became a great idea of what was quite a repetition and a copy of what President Petteri Orpo had said that the sanctions must be tough enough for such supranational companies to really take on their responsibilities. It was exactly the same as it had already been presented by the Coalition Party.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u189	Mr President! I actually asked for a reply. — The representative, Mr Ruoho, has now given me a false statement, or at least a very inaccurate statement, on my bill, which was indeed mentioned earlier today in paragraph 15. In other words, I myself made a legislative initiative to change the law on the investigation of the criminal background of those working with children, and Mr Laiho also made a bill on the same subject in the same month, but let us say here that these legal initiatives and articles were not identical. We both had a suggestion in the bill that the three-month time limit, which would not be required for shorter contracts of employment, would be removed, but I also proposed it,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u192	Mr President! The representative, Mr Ruoho, did express some very special views on these legislative principles in relation to retroactive legislation or legislation for a particular group. Fortunately, he is not on the Constitutional Committee, because these views were very special. This bill does not propose a retrograde legislation, but that, when this legislation enters into force, those who are illegally present in this country should be treated in accordance with this new, amended legislation. There is nothing retroactive about it, and this does not in any way apply to persons who have entered the country as asylum seekers and their illegal stay, but in any case to persons who are staying illegally. This bill addresses an important and central problem in today's Finland. Since the 2015 asylum crisis, this problem has been particularly highlighted in our country, that there are thousands of people who are not legally entitled to stay there. Now that an unauthorised stay in a country is considered to be a fine only, the means of intervention by the authorities are very limited in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u195	Mr President! In this well-supported legislative initiative, Mr Kankaanniemi will take a stand on the means of further enhancing the arrest and conversion of illegal applicants and persons residing illegally in Finland. And like the representative The Kankaanniemi mentioned above, this number of illegal residents has increased during the period of the Assembly's Ministry of the Interior, i.e. since 2015, to thousands of people
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u200	Mr President! The concept of constitutionality and retroactivity is quite different from that of Mr Ruoho,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u209	Mr President! It was a good thing that this debate took place because I see — whether it is a semantic misunderstanding or understanding — that if we are talking about a violation of the entry ban, then Mr Kankaanniemi may have the idea that from there the foreigner who has been subject to an entry ban has been broken when he has been turned or expelled from the country... They will be met when they are already here in the country, less often at that point, sometimes even at border controls. But it is in practice linked to the fact that some of these commit a crime while residing here in the country. — Representative Kankaanniemi, I made eye contact there. Did you realize that this is definitely where we are going to be? Mr Mäkelä tried a bit like a whitewash when he said that this did not mean the estimated ten thousand of these illegal residents, according to Mr Kankaanniemi. Well, then why is it mentioned in the bill a bit like it was there on the grounds?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u216	Mr President! As a comment to Mrs Ruoho, it is true that there was a registration in Finland. Before that, however, these people had come to our country, perhaps even some eight or so countries complying with the Dublin Convention and the Schengen Agreement, at least in theory, where none of them had registered them. Now that they were registered in Finland, the consequence of this is that when these persons, several hundred, if not thousands, have voluntarily left the country, they will now be returned to Finland under the Dublin Agreement, for example, from Germany. So the minister of such a service now, Orpo, did to Finland that these tens of thousands of people were registered in Finland, even though they should never have been allowed here on the basis of compliance with Dublin and Schengen agreements. They are now registered in Finland and under the responsibility of Finland as the first recipient country. If this is wise conduct, then I guess I have nothing more to say about this. However, I would like to say this once again to this legislative work, which Mr Ruoho described in that statement, that the explanatory statement of the bill describes the current state of the matter in terms of words. It explains what is the basis of this bill, why this kind is needed. It is not the content of the bill that determines what is stated in the explanatory statement, but what is read in the section. The article does not specify in any way which specific persons would be covered by this law. It applies to persons who are illegally present in the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u217	Mr President! I am a little surprised when Mrs Ruoho talks very much about this time in the Finnish Government. You've been here the whole time. You're still a representative of the government party to this day.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u222	Mr President! If you read the grounds of my bill, it was a question of increasing the sanction for an entry ban.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u225	Mr President! None of us here have been ministers, that we were quite able to make a difference, but that is it. But what is the fundamental change in this initiative? It is that the fine is fined or sentenced to imprisonment,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-07-ps-155.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
