ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u2	Mr President! From the beginning of 2016, Finland moved from the legal state-funded system of compensation for crop damage to the insurance-based system. The so-called Crop Damage Act was repealed from the beginning of 2017. Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Forestry had already unanimously called for an effective insurance system to be set up in our country, allowing producers to declare their production in case of damage caused by dangerous and harmful pests, and for the possibility of avoiding or restoring the premium tax under the new compensation scheme to be clarified. This issue has now become particularly topical due to the economic damage to agriculture caused by adverse weather conditions in 2017. However, it is quite clear that there is a need to secure the conditions for farmers to operate in this respect in the longer term. Agriculture is an industry that is done under natural conditions. Climate change has a particularly strong impact on farming. It may be that change will bring new opportunities and that the agricultural environment will be better in ten or twenty years' time than it is now. However, it is certain that the transition period will be challenging. The challenges are reflected in the spread of pests and plant diseases that threaten crop cultivation and in the emergence of new threats. Mr President! The crop damage and plant pest insurance market is only developing in Finland. Only two Finnish insurance companies provide crop damage insurance, and only about 1% of the field is insured. There are currently no insurances available in Finland for plant pest damage. It is clear, President, that farmers need time to raise awareness of how the insurance system will achieve the same results as the previous harvest compensation system. Insurance companies also need time to develop the right insurance products to meet demand. President! The government's proposal is justified and necessary. The criticism is actually too slow to wake up to this situation. As has been said, the will of Parliament, prepared in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, has been clear for a long time. The situation in the insurance market and the challenges posed by climate change should equally have been known. Mr President! However, as we can say, better late than never. All in all, this proposal is to be welcomed, in accordance with the will of Parliament and in recognition of the facts.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u3	Mr President! This is one part of the agricultural crisis package. In 2016, this insurance system was transferred from crop damage compensation, and the insurance tax has been 24 per cent. And now we have a solution, the approval of the EU Commission, for this temporary abolition until 2027. In autumn 2017, the insurance was only 1 per cent of the farms, and, as we heard earlier, there is at least no insurance cover for damage to plant pests for the time being. And when we also have Jari Leppä, Minister for Food and Agriculture in Finland, I would ask the Minister if he has time to answer whether this insurance has risen since that autumn 2017. At least it seems that the problems have not helped. It's been a rainy summer, then an exceptionally dry summer, and I don't know what this winter will do until the next year. Have there been negotiations to make this temporary solution permanent with the approval of the EU Commission? That would be quite justified. And thirdly, with regard to these declarations of damage to plants, does the Minister have anything to say about them?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u4	Mr President! The reason for the low demand for harvester and plant pest insurance in Finland has contributed to the application of the premium tax with the highest 24 per cent tax rates. The coverage of insurance has been limited compared to the previous statutory State harvest compensation scheme. Under insurance, only the damage caused by exceptional weather events could have been compensated, and very few have had insurance. The tax on insurance premiums has not been harmonised in the European Union. The solutions to the insurance premium tax are therefore national. In the Member States where the premium tax is in place, the premium tax systems differ in terms of their objectives and the tax base and rates. It is an excellent thing that we are now abolishing this premium tax on crop damage and plant pest insurance. Of course, the exemption from insurance premiums must reduce the premium accordingly. This should be ensured by monitoring insurance premiums. In addition to the abolition of the premium tax, insurance premiums may be reduced by an increase in the number of policyholders due to increased demand. One thing I would like to make very clear is that group animal health insurance for livestock does not now come within the scope of the exemption from the premium tax. Livestock producers reject salmonella and do free public health work. In Sweden, the State pays between 60 and 70 % of the salmonella restructuring. In Finland, the livestock chain pays the renovations itself through insurance and pays the premium tax. Active producers, full-time farmers, are involved here. This premium tax on group animal health insurance for domestic animals should be abolished. If the Minister for Finance Orpo, who was responsible for preparing the matter, were here, I would ask him about these group animal health insurance policies for domestic animals, but now I ask Minister Levä, who is there.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u5	Mr President! First of all, we Finns are in favour of this government proposal. That is a good and well-founded proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u10	Mr. Speaker! We now have this very good bill in the referral debate on agriculture — whether or not I would use the folk name of this kind, not the whole litany of it — to relieve and eliminate the tax on roof insurance. After all, this is intended to create more insurances that would then really protect farmers and farms from the roof years. The background to this is, of course, the very terrible drought situation of last year, or indeed the situation of two years. After all, we have had two exceptional harvests, two difficult summers in agriculture. First it was summer 17 very wet and it was raining all the time, and then last summer it hardly rained at all. You can also say that Finnish agriculture is beginning to have the situation that almost seven thin years of the Great Book, almost all the plagues since the Russian sanctions have hit agriculture. President! This is a very good proposal and I hope that Parliament will press ahead with this debate on the last spring of the parliamentary term. In this context, I would also like to thank the government for trying to use all the means that we can do nationally when we are a member of the European Union, almost all the means have been used, and for that warm thanks to the Sipilä Government. In particular, I would like to thank Minister of Agriculture Jari Leppää. I just met farmers from the South of my own region, and they did say that, despite the difficult situation for a long time, the minister still has the confidence of farmers. Mr President! To conclude, I would like to see a little development of the crop damage and roof insurance system into such a system of motor insurance, compulsory statutory insurance, partly financed by the public authorities, the state, and partly by farmers themselves, and a secure system of this kind, which unfortunately, with climate change, we will perhaps be faced even more in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u11	Mr President! However, Mr Kurvinen has now painted quite a fine picture of what the centre of the Prime Minister's Party has allowed us to do with agriculture. I'm sure those beautiful speeches won't help you there on the tables and in the midst of your debts. The representative Kankaanniemi made a distinguished speech about what the Finns have said, for example. There are many problems with coping, vacationing, supporting them, mental coping. A few weeks ago, we read in the news that, for example, all the subsidies for organic farmers are exhausted, so there would be opportunities to do so. This was now an awfully beautiful speech for the listeners, but concrete measures are required, and it is good to think about it when there is an election in the middle and again next summer coming, whether only fine words are served to farmers, who, however, take care of our food and security of supply. Now it's concrete, not pretty talk.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u13	Let's get back to the list of speakers. — Let us not go back, but give Mr Kari the answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u14	Mr President! Inspired by the speech by the representative of the Sea, I came to recall the years that have passed since when the Finns themselves were in the government when we had the tractor marches here in Helsinki. Every time you start criticizing your former government partner and his actions, it is good to remember, the Finns who were in the government, your own role in supporting and developing Finnish agriculture. The elections are approaching, and it is also in the speeches of our representatives. As a social democrat, I myself have perhaps spoken atypically on behalf of agriculture in the past, and if we should be able to secure parliamentary contact on some issues, it is related to our security of supply and security of supply, for example, to domestic food production.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u17	Mr President! I must immediately correct such a minor flaw that when a representative The sea pointed out that farmers, organic farms, are also running out of organic money, so there will be no funding for the financing of new organic contracts next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u18	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u25	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u33	Ärade Herr Talman! Förslaget är bra. År 2016 övergick vi från ett lagbaserat system, där staten finansierade erättningar för skördeskador, till ett försäkringsbaserat system. Jordbrukare upplever i dag att försäkringsskydet är begränsat och att de är utsata för en betydligt större ekonomisk risk jämfört med läget innan de statliga ersättningarna upphörde. Jord- och skogsbrukskottett har i tidigare betankanden ansett att Finland snabbt måste upprätta ett försäkringssystem som fungerar i practicekken, och som gör det öjligt för producenterna att försäkra sin produktion mot skador orsakade av skadegörare och ogynsamma väderförhållanden, som vi inte minst såg Senaste sommar. Det är därför mycket bra att regeringen nu föreslår att försäkringar mot skördeskador och växtskadegörare ska befrias från Skatt fram till år 2027. Nu är det ändå mycket viktigt att försäkringssystemet börjar fungera i practiceken. Jordbrukare har rapporterat att de inte har Hunnit få erfarenhet av systemet och att försäkringsbolagen inte har produkter som tillräckligt vä motsvarar jordbrukarnas behov. Dessa problem öses inte enbart med förslagen i denna proposition. EU:s Gruppundantagsförordning för Jord- och skogsbruket tillåter understöd på maximalt 65 percent av kostnaderna för dessa försäkringspremier. Det skulle vara skäl att utnyttja hela den stödmöjligheten som EU:s gruppondantagsförordning ger oss. Ett maximalt stöd under denna begränsade periodle skapa en större efterfrågan på dessa försäkringar. Detta skulle leda till att det skapas försäkringsprodukter som battre motsvarar de finländska odlarnas behov och hjälper landsbygdssektorn i vårt land.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u34	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u35	We will now resume the debate on item 2 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u36	Madam President! This small, but certainly not insignificant, bill is very important when we all know what it is about the profitability of agriculture. This abolition of the premium tax is a small but right move towards a slightly lower payment burden for farms in the future. It's a very good performance in itself. We all know that such small legislative proposals do not solve the problem itself. This is just a very mild first aid. But let us hope, Madam President, that in Finland it will finally be possible for the farmer to obtain from his own work, from the product he supplies to the market, an appropriate market price for a very clean, very healthy food, because in this case we will not be able to do much more than set the laws in such a position that farm profitability will be improved through the sale of the product produced by the farm, so that the farmer will have a fair price for his product. This constant fall, which has only been made at the expense of farmers, would certainly stop. I have already said in many speeches in the past weeks and months that, as a result of this fall in food prices, when farms have been driven on a course of hunger, a huge number of farms have stopped and the pace is getting faster and faster. Mr President, I would like to see one of these large central shops gradually wake up and begin the procedure on a voluntary basis, so that in a market economy the farmer also gets a fair share of the value of the whole product that comes to the table of the consumer. Another hope of the same thing is, of course, that we Finns can make the improvement for us today, even though by going to the grocery store to buy only this purest, Finnish food available. Imported foods, as we know, are always associated with certain disease risks and also with various additives, for which we unfortunately do not have accurate information, such as the various pathogens that can be spread to Finland. For example, salmonella, which everyone knows, is a very dangerous thing when it comes to it. This is a good bill, it must be supported, and it must be adopted as quickly as possible. Second point: This crisis of profitability in agriculture is just as acute. This too should be arranged in some way so that the farmer too can live in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u37	Madam President! During the first debate, I did not receive a reply after the comments made by Mrs Meren and I was able to sit here until the end of the evening so that I could speak. But before commenting on that previous speech by Mrs Hautala, I would like to say that I think very much the same thing about many things — that it would be sensible to look for a buffer to deal with the domestic crop damage, the plight of the farmer. The representative, Mrs Hautala, then suggested that, in addition to this European system of damage, there would be a domestic way to influence what I consider to be worthy of consideration. I spoke earlier about this importance of domestic food production and also about this security of supply aspect, which is linked to this domesticity: things that will certainly tolerate further reflection. But to this comment by the representative of the Sea. I think he said in some way that I would have criticised the substance of his speech. That, of course, was not the case. I have no desire to begin to correct the false speeches of the people of Peru. But most of all, I ask for the sense that after two and a half years of government, it makes sense to bring all sins down on the political parties that are still in government, especially since most of those sins are committed by themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u38	Mr President! As a trained person in the agricultural sector itself and as a person who has worked very hard in that sector, I have been thinking very much about the measures that we can use now to help domestic, Finnish, agriculture. What is small is what has been done about this matter during this parliamentary term, as is the case with this matter of insurance. This is a small but important piece. Of the tiny drops, it was once filled with oceans. So the actions, the functions we need, thank you for this performance. But then, what are the concrete things? Today, too, in the debate, it has been said that concrete proposals, concrete measures are needed, but when we have not had a better chance in this situation, we assume that every single one of us will be able to make a real difference in this. So they are our own personal daily choices: buying domestic food, using domestic raw materials in all situations. In November, I was shocked at the cafeteria in the Parliament. There was a game-bolognese on offer. I asked what this was made of. Well, then the staff said that ‘yes, this is done from the Irish German log’. So we have been promised that we will eat domestic meat here, but then we will still have farmed, foreign meat from afar, from which one has the impression that it is domestic food — certainly not New Zealand game. I was asked by my colleague that what does this matter? I said that it really matters a lot: the frying is generally perceived as a reindeer fry, the game is considered to be a domestic moose, but it was indeed a new Zealand, imported meat. Are we here in Parliament as examples of not using domestic food? This riistabologne would certainly have become a very good food for beef, for example. There is a lot of good beef in Finland — it would have been used. Let us be honest with ourselves and use good domestic foods and raw materials.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u39	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 13/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u40	Mr President! I would like, as the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs is not present, to draw the attention of the representatives to the fact that the Committee on Legal Affairs has dealt with this very important proposal by the government and with a bill setting up a judicial office which has long been needed. However, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has amended the government's proposal in certain respects and has, among other things, strengthened the independence of this agency and the possibilities for, for example, deciding on the creation of posts and so on. In practice, we may have given a little more time to manage that change. We have also deviated from this Court Office — whether it is now the Director-General, I do not remember in Finnish, ‘verketschef’in Swedish — on the conditions of competence,inasmuch as they are not strictly bound to a law-law degree,because the ex-post question is the subject of a major administrative task. We are also very concerned about the resources of the judiciary. For these various reasons, we have then added two impetuss which oblige us to report and monitor precisely on independence, resources and so on and also to report on the functioning of judicial training to the Parliamentary Legal Committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u41	Mr President! It is good that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has thoroughly reviewed this proposal for the establishment of a judicial office, and it is also important that these unanimous positions of the Committee on Legal Affairs be taken into account in the future. However, in the context of the referral debate on this matter, and in the past, there has been concern that the collapse of the district court network by the government took place before the establishment of the Court of Justice Office had been put into effect. I have to say, we went a little in the wrong order, that is, this. The court office should have been able to be set up first, and then there would have been assessments of the appropriate number of district court sittings and district court offices in different parts of Finland. In other words, a little like the cart was put in front of the horse, and in that sense it should have been possible to wait for these administrative decisions to be taken before these budgetary decisions were taken, especially given that these budgetary decisions proved to be quite purposeful even afterwards in the calculations and that it was not possible to show, for example, the savings that had been imagined in the dismantling of certain nations. For example, in my own country, Iisalme and Varkaus, for example, these transfers there On the contrary, Kuopio will increase the cost burden for the public sector, public authorities, and by no means bring savings. Mr President! It is certainly the case that there will then be a debate on where this institution should be located with regard to the Court of Justice and its establishment. It is only to be hoped that the regionalisation decisions with which the Eastern Finland region has been disciplined will then be taken into account in these discussions, and in that sense it might be sensible to imagine and wonder once again whether, for example, it would be possible to have this establishment of a judicial office in Joensuu. And, of course, when this debate took place at this point in the referral, the debate turned into a reasonable regional policy, but, above all, we would be able to see these state agencies elsewhere than just here in the capital region, within Ring Three. There are very good arguments for this, which is why we should remember that it is important for Finland as a whole to be kept inhabited, and it is extremely important that we get academically trained personnel from elsewhere in Finland to these state administration posts than just here on the inside of Ring Three and here in the capital region.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u42	Mr President! I thank the Committee on Legal Affairs — this is something that may not evoke great feelings in the marketplaces and in the turous, but is a very important bill in principle, and the Finnish League of Lawyers, among others, has promoted this issue. Indeed, I would like to thank the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights for the careful consideration of this important draft law and for strengthening the independence of the Court of Justice. This strengthens the realisation of the threefold doctrine of power in Finland, that courts are more independent of politics and the executive administrative machinery. This is achieved by transferring these specific tasks from a ministry under political control to a separate agency managed by the judiciary itself. I think, Mr President, that it is very important that, when this judicial office is now being created and its work is moving forward, it will be further examined whether it is possible, as it were, to delegate more tasks to the Court of Justice. Among other things, there has been talk of whether the Court of Justice Office should play a slightly stronger role in the negotiation of collective agreements between judges and other court staff and in the decision-making of staff and finances, so that it really is genuine independence and the administration of the judiciary. Mr President! As Mr Essayah said there, during the debate on referrals we had a rather tough debate and sought from Justice Minister Häkkkäs why it was then decided why the Minister of Justice decided to present this agency to the capital region. These are, so to speak, the train is so far so far that it stops at the Vantaa station for the time being, but I still believe that it should be clarified during the next parliamentary term and in the near future whether the Court of Justice should regionalise in a place with legal knowledge, education and a lot of courts. For example, I think that Vaasa, Rovaniemi or Joensuu would be a very good location for the Court Office, and if this agency were not located in the capital region, a little further away from us, Parliament and the government of the country, it would be likely to increase outwards the credibility of its agency as an independent actor. I hope, President, that progress will be made in this direction, but the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has done a good job so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u43	Ärade Herr Talman! Den rauh förändringen påverkar naturligtvis också Åland, och jag vill därför på ett allmänt plan undertryka att det är viktigt att den förslagna omorganiseringen inte försämrar tillgången till Svenskspråkig rättsskipning. Domare som handlägger de åländska ärendena bör ha kunskap också om den åländska rättsordningen. Det är också viktigt att poängtera att det enligt Ålands självstyrelselags 42 § är statens scyldighet att anordna utbildning på svenska för sina anstallda på Åland. Jag vill samtidigt rikata bestamd critik mot beredningen av den bull propositionen. När man har berett propositionen i justitieministeriet har man inte hört Ålands landskapsregering. Och Ålands landskapsregering har inte hörts i den raus processen innan riksdagens lagutskottt begärde ett utlåtande från landskapsregeringen. Det är naturligtvis väldigt bra att lagutskottet har begärt ett utlåtande, och det visar att ricksdage fungerar när det gäller åländska ärenden. Men det är inte tillräckligt bra att justtieministeriet inte hört landskapsregeringen, och det är inte tillräckligt tidigt för att ta fram viktiga åländska aspekter i lagstiftningsprocessen gällande detta. För domstalslagen innehåller flera särbestammelser för Åland och påverkar därför Åland Directive.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u44	Mr President, ärade talman! Jag vill till ledamot Löfström söga att han naturligtvis har alldeles rätt i sin kritik. Som lagutskottets vice ordförande kan jag säga att vi i lagutskottet på det viset valt valdigt eniga att vi enigt korsigera de problemm som har funnits i regeringens proposition, och vi var nog ganska förvånade över att man i beredningsskedet inte hört Åland eller landskapsregeringen. Det visade sig också att man på grund av att man inte har hört också har skrivit in Ålands location på ett felaktigt stätt och vi blev tvungna att trätta till det. Så det var nog en allvarlig påminnelse för beredningen att man helt enkelt kanske måste vara mer noggrann.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u45	Ärade Herr Talman! Jag vill tacka lagutskottets vice ordförande Eva Biaudet och hela lagutskottet för att man jobbat mycket bra med det rai lagförslaget och ocksåt de åländska aspekterna i beaktande i processen. Det förtjänar utskottet mycket beröm för. För i lagförslaget fanns en löyt på personer som inte kan iningå i domstalsverkets direktion, och där tog man bland aet upp ledamöter i landsskapsfullmäktige och landskapsstyrelse, och det förslaget innehåller inte några andra bestemmelser om motsvarande organ inom denåländska självstyrelsen. Här visor det igen på den begreppsförvirring som landskapsreformen riskerar att innebära för Ålands självstyrelse när man talar om landskap i allmänhet och sedan den åländska självstyrelsen och landskapet i det. Det au visa också hur allvarligt det är att beredningsprocessen i statsförvaltningen måste fungera oklanderligt, och ai måste verklgen en förbätting ske i beredningen. Men jag är mycket tagsam för att lagutskottet har uppmärksammat de ox sakerna och att de är rättade i riksdagsbehandlingen, så igen ett stort tag till lagutskottets arbete.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u46	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 23/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u47	Mr President! This amendment to Chapter 2 of the Police Act could also be called such a drone law of the police, as this is a question of changing the law of the police in such a way that the police have the opportunity to intervene, if necessary, in the running of such drones or unmanned aircraft. The police would be given the power to intervene in the course of these so-called drones if it were necessary to maintain public order and security, to prevent offences or to suspend an offence which has already been committed, to guard specific areas of surveillance, to secure a police mission or a significant state event, or to protect the privacy of the person concerned at the scene of the accident. The necessary forces or technical equipment, which does not cause any minor harm to other radio and communications traffic, could be used to bring down such a drone or aircraft. Mr President! We all know that these unmanned aircraft, the small drones, are very useful, bring great joy and create new opportunities even for entrepreneurship and the platform economy, but at the same time they also present a wide range of dangers. They can attack human or human property, they can transport weapons, explosives, drugs — man is resourceful to use good technology for all kinds of evil. The Committee on Administrative Affairs therefore considers it necessary for the authorities to have sufficient powers to address the potential security threats posed by new technologies. This government proposal has almost as such been adopted in committee, with very minor technical corrections being made. I myself have been in committee to deal with this, and we were unanimous in the Administrative Committee on this matter, which has been very typical during this parliamentary term. We have had a very unanimous Administrative Committee on these matters of public order and security. I would therefore like to thank all colleagues across all the parliamentary groups and the Government-Opposition boundary.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u48	Mr President! Finland woke up a little after-train to regulate drones, and one might say that the same was true for unmanned aircraft. In that sense, business and various inventions were sought in this area, but then it was discovered that if this was not regulated in any way, there would also be a variety of adverse effects. The debate which is currently taking place in the world, among other things, on air traffic jamming, and the events that have taken place in the United Kingdom - it is quite clear that this issue must also be addressed through the powers of the police. It is important that certain subjects, such as state visits or, for example, the protection of the personal life of the victim at the scene of the accident, are matters that should also be dealt with by the police. After all, drones are used for a variety of different purposes: Mr Kurvinen mentioned that not only a mobile camera can also carry different types of small transport and similar activities, which may then involve criminal activities. In that sense, it is important for the police to be able to intervene in this situation and to use, as is stated in this proposal, either force or a technical device which does not cause any minor harm to, for example, radio traffic. In particular, since it seems that this phenomenon has now become of some kind that these unmanned aircraft have started to appear in the vicinity of airports, it is indeed extremely important for aviation safety to be able to intervene in these situations and then prevent anything serious from happening.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u49	Mr President! This government proposal before us and the good report that it has become is an excellent addition to this difficult situation, which these new devices have brought to people's safety and privacy. It must be admitted that these new equipment can do a terrible job if necessary, as Mr Essayah mentioned the dangers to air transport. At Christmastime, the new memory is that of the British islands when one airport suspected that these devices pose a huge risk when it was not quite sure whether they had moved or not. However, the air traffic was closed off on a big runway, and I remember that about 10,000 people had Christmas holidays, if it was not completely blocked, at least there was a long delay before we could, among other things, go skiing on Lapland’s snow and watch Santa Claus. This is just one example of how serious it is. And for Finland, as a small country here in the north, and especially as a border country in the Schengen area — the Defence Forces and in particular the Border Guard — these devices are a real challenge. Of course, they themselves have the capacity to combat them, and the laws must be put in place to ensure that we are able to take those measures in places where that danger is at risk. As reconnaissance equipment, these tiny flying dronethans, which can be steered discreetly — it is not known where the pilot is — when connected with a good quality camera, violate border security and the activities of the Defence Forces, for example during exercises and in garrison, and then private life for a private person. Consider the situation, for example, that you are celebrating a family party or going to your birthday party. It's not nice at all if there's half a dozen drones on top of it, filming how the party is going in the backyard of your own house. We are dealing with very difficult issues here, and we need clear legislation to ensure that people's privacy is respected. These are extremely serious matters for the security of the kingdom. They concern the Border Guard, the Defence Forces, the police — all of these. These must be taken seriously and precisely so that those people will be held accountable then, if such unpleasant events occur. But legislation must be preventative, so that clear laws should be laid down on these matters, and these laws will probably have to be tightened up and toughened up in the near future, because, unfortunately, there are always people among us who do not know how to act, when there are incidents, and, for example, in the vicinity of airports, this situation is extremely dangerous. It may be a matter of the lives of hundreds of people when very bad luck occurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u50	Mr President! As has been mentioned in this debate, changes are being made to the laws governing the powers of other authorities so that, if necessary, these drones can be tackled, and that is how we live in time. The Defence Forces and the Border Guard will be given similar powers to remove unmanned aircraft in certain situations, if necessary. The Administrative Committee in its report on page 4 drew attention to the fact that, in the case of prisons, when the powers of the Criminal Sanctions Agency are being examined, a somewhat broader mandate is being imposed to intervene in non-aeronautical unmanned vessels. Today's technology makes it possible for God knows what kind of buzzards to come along the country. And it is, of course, one question whether the authorities should have uniform and harmonious powers so that the police and the Border Guard have the same powers as the prison authorities. That could be common sense, so to speak. The committee therefore considers it justified that the police and the Border Guard should also be given the opportunity to intervene in non-aeronautical unmanned vessels. This is a very important issue. As far as the prisons are concerned, Mrs Hoskonen and I were in prison last autumn, quite freely.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u53	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 24/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u54	Mr President! This is therefore an amendment to the municipal law in so far as the conditions for initiating a procedure for assessing a municipality in a particularly difficult financial situation are proposed to be specified and amended. First of all, it is proposed to replace the ratio of relative debt with the computational provision of the consolidated financial statements describing the solvency of the loan. Secondly, a negative annual margin is proposed to be replaced by a key figure comparing the annual margin of the consolidated income statement to depreciation. In addition, lease liabilities are included in the key figure describing the amount of the loan, and even then the level of the income tax rate is proposed to be increased. It is only right that these changes to the municipal law should be made. The self-government of municipalities, that is, the self-government of residents, is provided for in the Constitution, and when the municipality is even affected by these evaluation procedures, serious matters are therefore being dealt with. In this respect, the factors which make these decisions must reflect the reality of the situation in the municipality where each municipality is. So it is very important that this happens. During the last parliamentary term, 2011-2015, a large number of municipalities fell into financial difficulties and into this evaluation process and municipal mergers eventually. Of course, it was a state policy at the time that the central government shares of municipalities were not kept at the appropriate level. The debt volume of municipalities grew from 10 billion to 17 billion, the tax percentages of many municipalities rose, the number of employees decreased, and the worst of all, services weakened. We are now in a situation where no municipalities have been subjected to the evaluation procedure during this parliamentary term, but there is a risk that this will happen again. At least now that the regional reform is being sought, these municipal situations will also change in such a way that the municipality’s own mobility possibilities for the correction of its economy will be more difficult and narrower as social and health expenditure disappears from the municipality’s finances. In this regard, I hope that next season we will not need these evaluation procedures, but it is good and important,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u55	Mr President! This amendment to the Local Government Act mainly deals with the initiation of the so-called crisis municipality procedure and the economic situation and the financial indicators that will allow the crisis municipality procedure to be initiated. It could be said so bluntly that there is a desire here to bring more group-level figures, so that, in a way, this new municipal group mindset, which came into force in 2015, would also become more prominent in this crisis municipality process, and this proposal also seeks to prevent a little of this so-called group trickery, cleaning up the property of the motherhood, the actual municipality, for example, in municipal companies, so that the municipality's finances would look better, even if the real problems are in the companies involved in the group. Mr President! This is in no way intended to tighten this screw or in any way push more municipalities into the crisis municipal procedure, but it is precisely to find indicators that would pick up those municipalities that are really in deep difficulties that threaten that the municipality cannot fulfil its statutory task of providing basic services to its residents. President! Just like there's a representative. Kankaaniemi pointed out well, since the local government finances have been strengthened in Finland during this parliamentary term, and one can say that the policy that the Sipilä Government has pursued towards the municipalities has been very sensible and fair. There have been no cuts in the central government's share that would have had bad value choices pushed into municipalities, but there have been proper central government contributions, which are needed to carry out the tasks assigned to municipalities, and hopefully this kind of spirit will continue in the coming parliamentary term. President! This bill also contains a minor additional amendment which is not terribly binding on municipalities, but it is nevertheless important, in principle, to try to encourage municipalities to recognise the so-called multi-spatiality, i.e. that we have people who live more often in two localities, even in rural areas, even in the region of origin, and then there may be another place in the city, or there may be more than one place through study or work. This proposal also encourages municipalities in their own internal democracy to see this diversity more clearly, and we, the President, have also agreed on this point in the Committee on Administrative Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u56	Mr President! In brief: Finnish democracy is very strongly based on municipal self-government, it is strongly protected by the Constitution, and the main problems of municipal self-government today are almost always reflected in the municipal economy. And on many occasions, as Mr Kurvine pointed out in his good speech, to look at the whole of the municipal group honestly and with different indicators, that the condition in which the municipality's finances really are, is at the heart of a good report by the Administrative Committee. After all, in many municipalities everything looks good on the face of it, but there may be major debt burdens on the various companies owned by the municipality, and they will then actually create a situation where the financial situation of the municipality is threatened and then threaten the autonomy of the whole of that municipality and the ability to cope with the obligations imposed by the law on the municipality. However, one thing needs to be remembered before we go further to whip municipal decision-makers, and that is that the government, through its own measures, has, to a large extent, caused the economic situation of a large number of municipalities over the decades. We are now taking the typical Finnish rural community, where various state measures have reduced the operating conditions for the economy, even though it is said in Lapland: there are municipalities where almost 90% of the entire area of the municipality is covered by various conservation programmes, and the economic use of these areas is virtually impossible. How, then, with a small print, do you do the good work and provide good services for residents when the operating conditions are limited in advance. The government has not replaced any of these with any money for these municipalities, nothing. While taxes are collected from the municipalities when VAT is paid, state taxes are paid and many other legal contributions are paid, in return the state reassures the various regions that they are not allowed to build there, they are not allowed to cut down forests and they are not allowed to do much else. So, yes, in this Chamber, every Member of Parliament should now feel a sting in his heart that why this has been done. The same applies partly to my municipality of residence. There are huge areas that have been put into various protection programmes, and business has been adversely affected. Have we received any compensation? Not much. There have been promises, but then again there has been no euro of money behind those promises. This is the big problem. It is good that these calculation methods are being developed and improved, it is an excellent thing, but the government should pay much, much greater attention to the economic situation of the rural communities in Finland – there is a chance for economic activity at last to be freed. Let us take the example of today's debate on the use of forests: when you read magazines and listen to speeches, it almost feels that even the use of forests should soon be banned when it is said to threaten the whole world if forests are thinned.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u57	Mr President! Indeed, these changes in the municipal law mean clarifications to the key figures on the basis of which this crisis municipality procedure will then be initiated. It can be said that this is precisely an attempt to take into account the potential risks in the consolidated financial statements, taking into account the entire municipal group. I myself have been a member of the council of a municipality where the financial statements at first seemed quite nice, but then, taking into account the entire group and the risks in that group company, there were quite different indicators and considerable difficulties. Today, there is often a situation where these risks in companies owned by municipalities may be quite hidden and perhaps only at the point when the financial statements show those figures in a harsh way will be awakened to the need to do something. In that sense, such clarifications are certainly appropriate and, of course, we in the municipalities, as decision-makers, would also be better able to monitor what is happening in these group companies along the way, and we would not be satisfied with the financial statements alone, and these risks could be addressed in good time. In this context, I would like to highlight the possible formation of a regional government and the potential risks there when, for example, municipal social property is being transferred to the ownership of the provinces. And it must be said that, hopefully, the municipalities will be very careful in reviewing the property, the mass and, on the other hand, the valuations that are in the accounts there, and also taking into account the debts of the municipality and the whole of this group. In other words, it is extremely important that, in these possible transfers, if this regional government is being built up, the municipalities do not get into financial difficulties because they have not actually made any self-considered risk investments, but have complied with the legislation that comes from the state or parliament, which is being implemented. Of course, in this context, it must be said that the entire provincial administration, from the point of view of the independence of the municipalities, should be carefully considered, and in particular these risks, which are included in the transfer of municipal property.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u58	Mr President! I will continue with this case of Mrs Essayah, so much so that when the municipalities or joint municipal authorities now have property and it is transferred to the provinces, not all properties will be moved for the rest of their lives, but it will be the last three years — I have not seen the last versions where they are going. But it comes to this very situation that the municipality has invested in them, but now that the municipality’s own decision-making powers are transferred to the province, the property where the municipality is planning to continue its activities is no longer in its own decision-making power. This may result in the assets that may have been invested and the time still being done well, in the worst case scenario, being left untapped. We know that the protection of property in the Constitution does not apply to municipalities or associations of municipalities, i.e. public property, but if that property were private, it would apply to it and this will create major conflicts in the future. We'll see how the government comes to deal with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u59	Mr President! Good ideas have already been put forward here. If the regional government and the transfer of social welfare to the provinces are being carried out, it will, in my view, make it much easier for the municipalities to plan their finances, even because the most difficult situations have been experienced today and recently in the municipalities because, in the middle of the year, a huge fall in special medical care in general for the municipality is growing unexpectedly and causes a major problem among the municipal finances that has not been taken into account in the preparation of the budget. This goes away when this bill is paid by the province. Another similar type is the cost of child protection, which is passed on from the basic municipality to the province. They are also very dramatic in small municipalities. If there are a few cases of child welfare in the middle of the year, the figures are pretty impressive. When these leave, two major factors — there are others — will be eliminated, and that means that the main expenditure of municipalities, i.e. by far the main category in the municipal economy, will remain a civilised activity, and in general the municipality will be able to anticipate the number of children. The number of children and young people coming to early childhood education and primary school, upper secondary school and secondary education can be estimated and therefore planned for the municipality’s finances much better than with these unpredictable big factors, as is happening now. However, I do not consider this regional war reform to be a problem-free one at all. On the contrary, the concept of freedom of choice is a full wolf, and that is why it is unacceptable, although in other respects I think that this regional model is quite suitable, and in fact there are not many alternatives to it. Mr President! Last week, the Committee on Finance visited Senate Real Estate, where we did receive serious information about this county real estate establishment, information that at least the Committee on Finance did not have. It would be hoped that if a committee, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, were to deal with these problems, it would come back to this great risk to the provinces of regional businesses. There are huge sums of money that are now creating perhaps surprising difficulties for the future provinces if they come to us.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u60	Mr President! That is where Mr Kankaanniemi well described the operational risks currently associated with special care and, for example, the cost of child protection. Of course, they also have between municipalities such as their own equalisation system, but in any case the future social and regional reform itself does not remove this financial risk. For example, with regard to these latest calculations, such as those relating to my own country, North Savo, it must be said that it is a cold ride when we leave the minus side of the transport sector in terms of funding, and then the first thing we have to do is to consider where to start cutting off services, to even get to the figures where we are at the moment in terms of funding. In that sense, the differences between the regions in these calculations by the Ministry of Finance are quite large, and especially in regions with more than average morbidity and population ageing and different social problems. Just like here the representatives of Estonia and The Kankaanniemi have stated, yes, that these transfers, particularly those of real estate, are at great risk, although I recall that in the Regional Law on these buildings it has been said in some way that these transfers should not cause the municipality to face financial difficulties. But when there is no specific definition of what is going on here — the various investments that municipalities have made in recent times, for example, in old social work properties, may prove to be quite expensive when the debts that have been spent on these renovations are left on the municipality's hands, and then, in a few years' time, it can actually be said that these social work facilities do not have a purpose — and whatever types of rent levels are set and the like, there are a huge number of questions here which, indeed, from the point of view of the municipalities, may cause the economy to wave in many directions. In that sense, it must be said that Parliament will certainly continue to deal with the matter and hopefully continue to do so, so that we will be close to that election day, when these issues will be re-examined and corrected by what is inside.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u61	Mr President! When a change in the municipal law is discussed in this context, it is worth expressing concern about what will happen to Finnish municipalities in connection with this social welfare reform. Our entire democracy and services have been built on local and municipal self-government for a hundred years. Much new research has also been carried out in connection with the Year of Civil War. An interesting observation from these studies is that municipal decision-making — the gathering of former red and white people and also those outside this division very quickly after the war in the form of joint municipal administration — has been an important factor in uniting the Finns since 18 C.E. It has played a major role in creating mutual understanding. Then we know that all the important welfare services are built on the Kun-tie. There are libraries, there are schools, there is health care, there is childcare and helping children. So it has not been understood how much change is now being made when tasks are transferred to the provinces, and then you have to ask what is left of the municipalities at the end of the day. What is the identity of the municipalities after this? What is the connection between citizens and voters after this change? Attention is also drawn to the fact that we have now heard on this side of the year that: Denmark is moving in exactly the opposite direction than what we are doing. They are giving up the county administration completely and consider that these services are carried out by municipalities, strengthening the municipal side in social welfare and health care services. I would like to ask whether we are coming to this kind of fire which is already passing out in our regional debate a little afterwards, and whether there will then be a major damage through the radical change in the status of municipalities and the ability of people to influence matters will be moved further away. This is the status of municipal self-government and local government that has hardly been discussed in connection with this reform, and I personally believe that the future of municipalities is a major issue if this reform were to go through Parliament. Of course, we must remember that the matter is open, and we know that yesterday, in the ranks of the government parties, there has been a new thought on this issue when one representative has announced that he cannot continue in the ranks of the government party because of this very social reform. No one knows the outcome, but I wish,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u62	Mr President! We must agree with what the representative has said. Heinäluoma raised the issue of bringing together the various parts of the people a hundred years ago and the democratic and unanimous development of local government. It has played an extremely important role in terms of sustainable values for the well-being and development of this nation. But I did have some time to think about Mr Heinäluoma's reflection that the municipal base would now be so valuable that, under no circumstances, social and health services, for example, should be transferred from it. Please note that today the whole of health care is in the hands and decision-making power of municipal associations, the indirect municipal administration, in almost the whole country, and this reform, on a regional basis, brings together health care and comes together the regional elections, and then democracy will be carried out directly. I think this is a good model. But I have always wondered whether, for example, social tasks and the tasks of care for the elderly and these types of people had to be included in this. I would not have taken them, but it was a compromise in the spring of 15. The health care side, the provincial unions, the rescue service and such tasks would have been taken care of, and then it was only at peace to see if some social tasks were better suited to the foundation or the province. And then, on the other hand, we would have looked at what to do with these growth services in the country now. Now they too are being hit in the province at once, and we have a huge lump like this since the trial, which in four years is not rational enough to deal with. So, in my opinion, this model must have gone wrong, and then, when it was brought to it by free market choice, that really messed this whole thing up. As far as the tasks of municipalities are concerned in the future, if the regional reform takes place, then local authorities will, for example, retain the MAL tasks — land use, housing, transport — the maintenance, development and strengthening of vitality, culture, of course education and education, and the municipalities will also have general powers, i.e. they can take on other tasks that they feel are best for. The smallest municipalities are in a rather problematic position. They do not really have any tasks, but they do not have them now either. Through joint municipal boards, such a vast part of their tasks are taken care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u63	Mr President! At the end of his speech, among other things, the representative Kankaanniemi intervened quite well in the role of small municipalities. Now, in the context of this amendment to the municipal law that we had before the Administrative Committee, the structures of the crisis assessment procedure were also being examined, and in that respect the committee's work was very much in line with the view that these evaluation procedures should be developed. What Mrs Es-sayah said in her previous speech, I agree that we will have much to consider in Parliament for the next term. I would also like to join in this debate on democracy initiated by Mr Heinäluoma on this joint front from the point of view of the decision-making power of the municipalities and the defence of municipal democracy: In the context of the social and health reform, the debate on the objectives, structures and so on of the social and health reform has largely focused on the part of health and this side of the word "society" has been overshadowed. But when we municipal decision-makers are there between the milk shelving of our own municipality and the shopping centers of our province, that is where the feedback about these social welfare and health care matters will come to the municipal decision-maker today, and I believe that if you ever move into a provincial model, the municipal decision-maker will continue to come to the municipal decision-maker with his own concerns. The larger entity that is being put on the wider shoulders of the activities may be the model of the service system of the future, but democracy should not be extended to large shoulders from the point of view of local residents, because, at the moment, in various regional models — in regional businesses or in regional social and health health associations — the current councils of the province and the joint municipal authorities are, as a general rule, rubber stamps. The Board of Directors of the Joint Municipal Authority leads and exports, and in the provincial council, where power has been distorted by various parties and other municipalities in the province, there is no actual municipal democracy in the most sacred sense to which representative Heinäluoma referred in the municipal history of the Republic of Finland. Its type of democracy has not been able to be built on a joint municipal assembly model at least today. If we have direct elections at the regional level, I am afraid that even in that situation, through the promotion of health and well-being, the municipal decision-maker will continue to be a key player in the organisation and production of the services of his own municipality.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u64	Mr President! Representative Heinäluoma well reminded me of the importance of local government in building Finnish reconciliation and democracy, and I myself recall hearing the researcher's lecture on this memorial year 2018, in which he a little horrifiedly stated that the municipal economy and administration were such a difficult task right from the start that it was worth putting it on the joint table of the various parties, so that it was necessary to build an agreement when there were such difficult problems right from the start. And even today, if we look at the finances of the municipalities, it often seems to me that in smaller municipalities at least we do not know which party that is now on the other side of the table is coming from, but that there is the joint municipal party that is trying to think about how to get ahead of this strain and how to maintain decent services in the region and keep the economy in order. In other words, this kind of municipal Consensus Party seems to be quite found in many municipalities because of the fact that these questions of the municipal administration and perhaps especially this particular day regarding the municipality's finances are so sparkly. Of course, perhaps the big question of principle is what is actually being done in this provincial administration to that municipal self-government. A professor of municipal administration came to me to say that why do you take the freedom of choice and others to the Constitutional Committee, that in his view this whole entity, the principle idea that this very strong self-determination of a Finnish municipality is being undermined here, is the question that should first be examined in that Constitutional Committee and then to ask whether there is anything in these laws that may conflict with the Constitution, for example, from the perspective of equality. Well, all in all, social welfare certainly needs greater responsibilities than the municipality, and I believe that there is quite a unified view of it. Today we know how the cost of social and health care is high for individual municipalities and we need a structure, whether it is a social welfare area or what it is called. But like a representative The Kankaanniemi earlier pointed out well, then to this same reform, when all possible growth services and the like are surrounded, it simply becomes such a big lump that it is impossible to pass it as such. Then there will be mutual equality regulations between the provinces, which, even with these preliminary calculations by the Ministry of Finance, have not been able to be corrected, but will be very challenging economic situations. But in any case, in the future, we must organise these social services, and it is likely to happen in larger units than the municipality.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u65	Mr President! I will return to this role as a municipality. It is possible for the provincial government to choose, but it would be reasonable for the decision-making process to also open up the prospects left for the municipalities. When Mr Kankaanniemi said that there are still a lot of things to do and that there is this vitality department, it is just as it is that you can then engage in vitality for the good of the municipality and the residents. But the next stage has already been heard, if this reform is implemented, and it has already been said that, once this social and health sector has been brought into the province, vocational training and upper secondary schools will be transferred. That is what will happen, ladies and gentlemen. If this is now born, we will see that the architects of this reform will want vocational training and a high school solution there. After all, the municipality will be left with the small primary school and then the municipal road maintenance, the coat of arms and the history club, which tells of the days of the municipality’s greatness in the past century, but otherwise the activities will be transferred away to the province. That may be a good solution, I am not saying it, but it is obvious that it follows that this will run away from people. This will not come any closer, this will come further, and decision-makers in that province will not be enough for every municipality, village. This is really what Mr Essayah said about care for the elderly. You may ask what synergy benefits come when care for the elderly, from which you might well think that it is such a basic issue of the municipality, is transferred to the province. How, then, does the county councilman know how to look at what is right in Jalasjärvi or Haapavesi to measure the services of the elderly — I would imagine that there is nothing, either the official or the confidence-maker, if there is no such thing as that area. There has not been much talk of this aspect either when this has been taken forward, so I fear that there will be quite a few surprises here when this reform, if it happens to go through this Chamber, then let us go. Well, I understand that the government parties are very pleased that this does not come into force until after the elections, so that the effects do not become clear to the public before the elections. Then they will be corrected by the next government and the decision maker of the next administration. The picture of the future of the municipality will be incomplete with this presentation, which is now being offered to us for this social welfare reform. That is why we are also strongly opposed to some mayors, not just Mayor Vapaavuori of Helsinki, but also to many others who see that the aspect of municipal democracy disappears in connection with this reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u66	Mr President! It is now a little surprising for the brothers to think left about this provincial government. That is what will happen if this happens, if the party district organisations put candidates in the regional elections, the people of the province choose between them, not by municipality, but by region. And they go a little like the MPs from the province, so no one has said, except in Helsinki, where the next MPs come from. That's what happens in the county elections. And the councilman represents not his municipality of residence, but his province and party. This will serve as a basis for political decision-making,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u69	Mr President! Inspired by the speech by Mr Heinäluoma, I am a little surprised at his position on the functioning of democracy. It is true what has been said about these joint municipal authorities. When elected to the municipal council after the elections, they go through so many corners that there is not really much democracy left. In practice, as in my own country, representatives of the largest municipalities are chosen there, the strongest influences with great financial interests, and then the representatives of a smaller municipality will have to lick their hands there — coffee can also, of course, be allowed to drink if you wish. But, Mr Heinäluoma, who represents a society from above at its best, I understand your concern about the great fact that the power of decision will flow to those provinces. It is precisely in industrial policy that it is no longer a matter for the ministry to decide, but that the decision-making power is transferred to where people are. Is that not the deepest core of the democracy that this Thucydide once invented in Greece: most people make decisions as close as possible to where they live. I understand that this is the deepest point of democracy, and I cannot understand why this would be a threat. Today, the threat lies precisely in these associations of municipalities, where democracy is behind so many corners that democracy has little smell in the corridors. Therefore, since we are having this policy debate here, I would like to see these facts recognised, because it is the only way forward. Even if the decision on the money for industrial policy is transferred to the regions, I see it as an opportunity. Yes, there is certainly much, much more wisdom in the province to see which business sector is pulling, which is not pulling, and in this way can be settled and developed effectively throughout the local economy. From a point of view of Ilomants, the ministry is a long way from being in the country, and if it is the local provincial administration that manages it, and there the acquaintances with whom it is easy to visit — if you go to the Ministry from Ilomants, it will take another day before the matter is settled, and whether you can get to it will depend on whether the great leaders have time on the calendar. I would like this debate to take place on a factual basis. If a mayor of Helsinki, Vapaavuori, is concerned about the narrowing of power in the ministry, then I can understand from his point of view why he is concerned about it, because if the power of decision is transferred to the provinces, then the money that goes out there will be weakened and the control of central power will be weakened. I understand that this also represents the deepest point of democracy that I have said, and I warmly welcome it for my part.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u70	Mr President! It is nice to discuss municipal issues here in Parliament, because so many colleagues are municipal decision-makers in their own region and so many of them are still experienced in them. And it is also nice to note here that we share widely the common view that the present groupings of municipalities form some form of democracy, a democratic deficit, a logic within their infrastructure, at the same time as the municipality is represented, a party is represented at the same time, and then this group is gathered together: there is sometimes a party, there are sometimes representatives of its own municipality, there are sometimes representatives of its own municipality, there are also representatives of its own municipality. But if we were to move to the province model through direct elections, these people in their own municipality, as Mrs Kankaanniemi pointed out, would still expect the decision-makers of their own municipality to secure the services of their own municipalities and to pursue their affairs. I don't think it'll go away anyway. If you are looking for a comparison from this parliamentary order, from parliamentary work, then there is a similar logic here: surely many of us in Parliament are under pressure from citizens from their own region to bring it into their own territory. I would like to draw attention to what Mr Heinäluoma wisely referred to. If we give birth to Finland, where are the provinces that are given tasks — perhaps even some of them are produced but, above all, managed, that joy of administration is now being offered to us — we will certainly continue to transfer vocational training to these joint municipal authorities. Mr Kankaanniemi wisely pointed to the fact that growth services and other tasks are already being given, which make this a real lump. Is it not as a follow-up to this development that small municipalities will not be left with tasks and, gradually after the polishing of their shields, there will also be no municipality left for these small municipalities? The end result is what so many try to run, bear from the path, escape: the transition of small municipalities to history as traditional activities and the birth of large Finnish municipalities. There are 40 or 100 of those empires, there are many fewer than 300.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u71	Mr President! I have called for this reform to be accompanied by an open statement on the implications for the municipalities. Now, in a way, the spotlight is simply placed in the provincial administration and it is said what is good and beautiful in it, but it is not said what will be the reality of the municipalities. My prediction is that it will be bitter lime when it comes to opening up to people in the next few years. When it comes to the democratic aspect, it can be justified criticisms of local government activities, but it must be remembered that not all activities are there in the union of municipalities. We still have care for the elderly, which is largely done by the municipalities themselves, and basic health care is also in the hands of many municipalities. Now all of this goes to the provinces. Then I come to this administrative aspect, which has now been somewhat unopened in the case of the provincial administration. I would ask you to take a look at the government's proposals in this regard, to see what democracy is in regional government when, for example, decisions are made on health care issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u74	Mr President! On this point, I fully agree with Mr Heinäluoma that money is now the deciding factor. There is not enough money for these regions, even in the early stages, and it will lead to it — as was the case the other day with the discussion of customer charges — that customer charges will be raised to a full pin and no one will be given any relief because that money is needed in the province. Nevertheless, this funding model will run out of money for many provinces in October. Our grandmothers and grandfathers must be dealt with until the end of the year, and there will be a gap that the debt cannot handle far. Then the government will have to pay...
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u77	There is one person on the list who has been asked to speak, and a reply has now been asked. If we go in order: Mr Hoskonen and then absolutely Mr Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u78	Mr President! Congressman Heinäluoma has just left the café. I would have told him when he painted in dark colors the future prospects of the province, that if he is comforted now at all — I hope that my esteemed representative Kari will tell his colleague Eero Heinäluoma — if that regional reform were to go through what I very much hope, then at least North Karelia will be ready. We are almost ready for the trial that lies ahead. If that is what you are afraid of, then I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, on the left side of the Chamber, that it is pointless for you to fear, so do not watch your nights. It'll be all right there. The fear that power of decision will be scattered near the people — there is no room in my head for Eero Heinäluoma’s idea that something would go wrong. Is it, then, an alternative to what you are suggesting, that we all concentrate on one place where one great leader decides? Is that your idea? Well, it's one of the biggest ideas of socialism that one great leader knows everything and then the rest is in his creator. A local person can't do anything about it anymore. Now that we have this provincial government and free elections, it is certainly much greater and more valuable than the present joint municipal assembly model, where it may actually drown. After all, everyone in their own municipality can conduct this poll as a poll. Ask how many citizens of the municipality, the streetman, know even if they are represented in their own municipality by a consortium of educational municipalities or by a representative of the central hospital community. We know that in our own province, of course we do, but ask the man on the street. Go to the local bakery bar and ask Mr. Virtanen, who sits in it, the first gentleman on the right — even Mr. Virtanen — ask Mr. Virtanen who is the representative of my municipality of residence in the educational community and the central hospital community. I dare promise bun coffees if that first person knows it — provided that a representative has not arranged for a person who then really knows it. But locally I feel that those people do not know anything about their representatives, but if the elections come, they certainly do. This is the big difference between a top-up society and a democratically run society. That's the big one.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u79	Mr President! I think Congressman Kankaanniemi is about to get a medal for this gift of misunderstanding. I don't know what windmill the bat grabbed when you said I would have proposed a grand model. I was mostly filming what the dough you baked is producing. This reform creates a situation in which municipalities lose tasks, in which there is a risk that municipalities will be created in Finland, which no longer have functions, that, in terms of vitality, municipalities will also comply with this law, which we are now discussing, as if the municipality is viable or not. That is what this government proposal in the debate touches on. And this part of the philosophical debate that has now taken place well illustrates that if a war is created in Finland, the services focus on the regions and management and responsibility for organizing, and the current tasks of the municipalities are slowly beginning to fade away. These figures, which I used, are the figures that current government parties and former government parties, such as the True Finns, have commented on in various contexts either as their own thoughts or as the ideas of others. These ideas did not come from the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u80	President! I would like to raise only one chapter to this debate, and it is the bed-places of the old-age homes, which were 10,200 in 2013, 9490 in 2015, last year there were 7,500 and, according to the budget, in 2019 there are 5,000 of these beds in the old-age home. So in a few years, five years, the beds of the nursing homes are halved. This is the reality, and these are the decisions that the provincial government will then have to take. Of course, when decisions of this kind are made at a distance, it is much easier to say that, well, let's take those beds out of the spending limits and concentrate them here at the headquarters of the provincial administration. In other words, in the provincial administration and municipal administration, the elected representatives there are faced with very difficult decisions, and this development is not desirable. I cannot understand how, in such a short period of time, the beds of half the old people's home have been reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u81	Mr. Speaker! Finally, Mr Kurttila, a Social Democratic MP, who is known as a child representative, suggested that the operating permits for primary schools should in a way be decided by the State. I do not know if the Minister of Education would decide how many schools there are in one of the towns of Saarijärvi or perhaps in Jyväskylä, where he himself might live. There's a big argument there about a village school, or a district school. So is this the Socialist line, then, when you talk very much about transferring the decision-making power of upper secondary and secondary vocational schools to the provinces? I do not see it quite, but as far as upper secondary schools are concerned, I understand that when, fortunately, there are still a large number of upper secondary schools in our own province, for example, if they were transferred to the provincial government, it might be that if the council were to have a leadership of the coalition and social democrats, almost everything would be closed down there, as has been done in Jyväskylä for the city, together with three huge schools. That is why these foundations do not want to move now, and neither am I willing to move high schools to the province. Vocational education and training is quite limited in a few localities and it is of a regional scale, which means that moving it as such could be justified not to have a consortium of municipalities alongside the regional government. That's Tårta på tårtta, if you say so. But in this context it is not being done, and I do not know if we are ever doing it. As far as this division of tasks is concerned, I think it is quite clear that the basic body is responsible for the public tasks that are close to people and which it is the most reasonable level of decision-making and funding. Then there are these functions that require a broader population base, such as health care — not necessarily social services, but all health care — and it makes sense that it should be compiled by region. 18 is a pretty good number. It would make a little less sense, but this is where we are now. Then there is the national level, which then creates the framework and some activities, for example, are concentrated in a few places. Such a three-step model is economically,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u82	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on MmVM 20/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. Now for the general debate — Mr Eestilä is the first.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u83	Mr President! I just pressed the button myself, which means I don't know what the problem was. This government proposal is very good. It is even an historic proposal that the government's proposal is supported by all the members of the committee, supported by all the local fishermen, the inhabitants of Utsjoki. The seamless progress of cooperation is an historic matter, since the fisheries of the Teno River generally involve a wide range of legitimate interests and ideas do not always go together. But this is important for the citizens and fishermen because, for two years now, this law keeps the marketing of licences in ely centres, which have experience of it and have practiced in practice, because it is not so simple to set up these systems in such a way that they work. In that sense, I welcome the fact that when the committee visited Utsjoki last summer and we talked about this there, then this has been achieved through the Ely Centre and the legislation. This is the way things should be done together.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u84	Mr President! Thank you for allowing me to speak now, however, when the technical flaw was just now, which jumped over this speech. In other words, in the case of the Tenojoki Convention, the question is essentially related to matters relating to the Law on Fisheries. The problem with the Fisheries Act is that fishing areas are now in operation as of 1 January 2019, but in practice the organisation of fishing areas has only just begun and all the organisation systems are still completely confused on the ground. Indeed, there is still a great deal of work to be done there, and in the Uts River region, for example, the fishing area could not have even begun to manage this measure. Let's go back to this fishing law. Fisheries areas should now start spinning, and organisational issues are not free of charge. On the fisheries side, the financial situation is really bad, and the problem is that these funds, the management fees, have not been able to collect nearly as much as would have been necessary. Now we are wondering whether the Ministry, the State, could somehow come to help this situation financially, so that the fishing areas can actually run around on the scale envisaged at this stage in the preparation of the fisheries law. Then we'll go to Utsjoki and this fishing law. It is a very good thing that Article 10 However, we are now working on this issue, although the fishing law in the wider context of this parliamentary term should have been dealt with, for example, because of these financial issues, because we really would have needed the money to reorganise fishing areas. And now to this Teno deal. The first two terrible summers are over, and now it seems that the little one has been healed. There is already hope for next summer that a few small things will be developed there, but in any case Teno tourism is in a very bad situation, and I therefore hope that the other measures taken by the state, including the measures taken by Metsähallitus, will be able to help the municipality of Utsjoki and somehow compensate the municipality for this failure of the law, so that tourism in the municipality will not suffer as much as it has now suffered in the last two summers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u85	Madam President! I wanted to take the floor, as it were, to highlight it as a parliamentary, a shared vision of this issue, and it is good that these Teno issues are perceived as common – not just matters of Lapland or just matters of the government, but matters of Parliament. On the weekend, I talked with two Teno fishermen, a local person, here in southern Finland — there was a possibility — and once again it was a good thing to see that Finland has the opportunity to find solutions itself for the residents of one of our central, great tourist destinations, the border river and the region, also in terms of the source of livelihood. I hope that, from time to time, the situation that looks like a Finnish-Norwegian country match to the tourist, and certainly to the local one, Finland-Norwegian country match, will produce results in which Finnish, Saami, local people, residents and tourists will then be winners. And in this respect, I can also welcome the government's proposal and, in this case, the joint report of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u86	Mr President! As Mr Kari has said here, this is the way in which the Teno River agreements in general and the fisheries law must be dealt with: together, we are seeking the lowest common denominator, which satisfies the various parties. The problem with this Teo fishing tourism and marketing of permits is that now this new border river agreement came, that we have to reserve all these permits online and become a tough competition and immediately they are usually sold. This has caused — when those long - term Teno visitors, often older men or women, may not have mastered these online gambling rules — that many have, as it were, put the gloves on, that they would no longer go to Teno. And this saddens tourism entrepreneurs, it saddens those MPs who see this river as a great tourist destination. This is the problem that how can we organise the sale of this licence so that it is easier, as before, to go whenever it wants and how can we get quotas that can be used to estimate and control how much fish is fished. And then every time we talk about the Teno agreement, we should understand without ferment that there is a local population, there are the owners of fishing rights, there are the owners of special fishing rights that are registered in the real estate register. These properties are owned by locals and then by any Finnish citizen or anyone, and where is there such a law that the rights entered in the property register are subordinate to where the person lives? Finland is an equal and equal country. Congressman Kari, quite rightly, your angle of approach is good. You pretended to have to work these out together. Teno fishing is accompanied by five constitutional rights, which should be weighed against each other without enthusiasm and see how these fisheries-related issues are organised in Teno. I believe that a five-person working group should be chosen or set up with legal expertise, constitutional competence, representation of local fishermen, Sami representation and then representation of property owners. These things cannot be resolved in my opinion or in the opinion of the Coalition Party in such a way that we give something good to someone just because it is nice to give. That's not a legal basis. In other words, even in this matter, you have to have your feet on the ground, you have to look far away and your head cool enough to be able, legally and from the point of view of constitutional law and the Constitution, to build such a solution that you end this endless dispute about who your rights belong to and whether I have to have rights to take at the expense of another. It's not a healthy habit. It's going exactly the way it shouldn't be. This government proposal is an example of how things should be done: by working with parliamentarians, with officials and with the local population. That's the way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u87	Mr President! Tenojoki was very quiet last summer. So it was very quiet on top of the water, so there were certainly no fishermen. There would have been a real opportunity to fish under the water, that is, there were a lot of salmon rising in the water, that is, there would have been a lot more fishermen there, and certainly the yield on the river would have remained close to what was intended. So the situation is now that Teno's tourism has now collapsed to a very low level. It has not been anyone's goal or wish, and it has come to mind in this parliamentary debate that everyone has really hoped that something we could do there, that Teno's tourism and Teno's fishing could be developed very much in Finland. On the Norwegian side, even a large number of permits have not been sold, because there is no greater pressure on Teno. There are many other salmon rivers where tourism can be developed and taken forward and there are also customers. But we have here in Finland Teno is a very important and important issue, and the truth is that the Finnish negotiators failed completely in the Tenojoki negotiations when the agreement was drawn up. Now we will do nothing but wait a few years for the next negotiations on the agreement to take place, and then we will go in good time to build a new agreement on the model so that, among other things, the issues mentioned by Mr Eestilä are adequately taken into account and we will have the opportunity for all of us who want to fish in Teno to fish there and then for the Utsjoki to also have a tourist income on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u88	Madam President! After all, this border river agreement has been drawn up in its strictness because everyone has environmental responsibility and this environmental responsibility also applies to fish stocks, and that is why this Teno agreement and the strict restrictions on legislation have been introduced in order to revive the stock. The problem is that when there are 30 different fish stocks and the fish stocks that go up come in early summer, if the fishing pressure is high then exactly what we are trying to fix will happen, that spawning potential in the river Iesjoki and in the river Kaarasjoki and there will be able to be met. That was the one purpose of this whole agreement. Then we have certain tributaries where that's all right. Now Parliament has given an appropriation of EUR 400000 to remember that we are putting control on how much salmon is rising in it, and when we know how much it is rising, then it will be much easier to change these rules and re-emerge the fishing pressure. Let scientific research be based on all these things, that we know how much is being fished. In my opinion, we are now on a good path, and if we are able, for five to ten years, to follow a slightly more restrictive line — of course, the role of tourism entrepreneurs must be improved all the time — then we will see that the level of salmon stocks is rising, and that is the ultimate purpose of this whole agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u89	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 29/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u90	Mr President! There have been many big and complex issues in the debate today, and compared to that, this may seem a small matter. This is very clear, but the background is surprisingly large and complex. The fact that this is a big thing is that when we talk about the health and well-being of Finns many times in this Chamber, this single thing, tobacco, kills around 3,000 to 400 Finns a year, around 700,000 in the EU and about 4 million worldwide. The fact that this is a complex issue is linked to the problem of smuggling, because a surprisingly large proportion of cigarettes smoked in the world have been smuggled. This is also reflected in the fact that in 2015 around 600 million cigarettes were seized by the EU authorities alone. And what is interesting is that the tobacco industry is not innocent of this smuggling; it has been involved in many ways. This is illustrated by the fact that the EU Commission challenged tobacco companies some years ago and, on the basis of this, Philip Morris, the giant company, agreed to pay the EU about EUR 1 billion over the next 12 years, which shows that there is no real innocence here. On the other hand, these attitudes, on the other hand, are well illustrated by the fact that there is a fairly good culture in northern Europe, relatively little smuggling, even though the price is quite high. There is a low price in southern Europe, but there is a lot of smuggling there. It is precisely this monitoring instrument that is now under consideration in the context of the World Tobacco Convention — an assembly ratified by Finland — which has led the Commission to present this proposal, which is in this law, namely the so-called track and trace. The problem is that industry has not been able to keep its hands off these systems, and this is precisely what the European Parliament voted on a few years ago and rejected the Commission's agreement with Philip Morris. The fundamental question here is whether this instrument, which we are now adopting, is really independent of the tobacco industry. It's a technically difficult question, but apparently it is. And when this was discussed in committee, this essential sentence was reached in the report, i.e. the committee requires that, when a regulation is adopted by the government, the retail packages have a unique identifier, which is issued by the Finnish STM, and the authenticity factor is provided by a third party, an independent body. So the report is good and the law is good.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u91	Madam President! The government proposal and this report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health are excellent. The side effects of smoking are well known to us all, as Mr Puska well described in his speech. In the world at present, various substances are being smuggled from one country to another, an attempt is being made to make a financial profit, and in this case the prevention of this illegal activity by such a good invention is a very good thing. Indeed, these packages must be put in order in such a way that the black economy is not given opportunities. Tobacco as such, of course, is a harmful stimulant. We all know that. In any case, however, it is even more harmful to our society that the smuggled product is smoked and that the government and society receive nothing from that event except the health damage that patients then carry to health centres and hospitals. It's an excellent bill. I very much hope that this will be able to prevent a small grey economy and this kind of illegal activity, and precisely so that, of course, the big goal here must be to try to improve people's health all the time and to get out of tobacco as effectively as possible, for example in Finland now, even first.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u92	Mr President! When I was 22 years old in 89, when I went to work in the municipality of Savukoski, it was quite shocking that every other office was smoking. They were full of smoke, almost every room in the county council, and there was so much smoke in my office too. It has now taken almost thirty years. How wonderful it is that today we can no longer smoke in the workplace and in many other places we can breathe properly. Thank you, Mr Puska, for bringing up these tobacco issues again. Over the years, you have worked very hard to ensure that the health of people has been saved and helped forward in Finland as well. Every measure that has helped people to smoke less and less is always ahead — thank you. This is a small thing, after all, but small pieces go on. The second point I would like to make in this connection is that there is a lot of snuff being smuggled into Finland at the moment. It is not allowed to be sold in Finland — fortunately it is not allowed to be sold. And there has also been a debate about whether it should be formalised in Finland, so that tax revenues would also come to Finland, because those tax revenues are pretty huge, what happens now from Finland to Sweden. But thanks for the fact that snuff is illegal in Finland, because it is not illegal for no reason. After all, health is the most important thing for us in this case too, which means that people should not be allowed to start using something that is dangerous to their health in vain.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-22-ps-145.u93	Partly for a single, partly second reading will be presented on the 14th item in the order of business. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 36/2018 vp, it will be decided at the sole reading of the agreement and then at the second reading of the draft law.
