ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u2	Mr President! This government proposal therefore concerns two different laws: firstly, the extension of the so-called "Best Framework Act" and, secondly, the so-called restriction law on investments and outsourcing. The proposal is linked to the social reform outlined by this government in its Government Programme. The purpose of the extension of the Paras Act is to ensure that the co-operation areas established during the municipal and service restructuring process would not be dismantled before the reform of the social structures under the Government Programme entered into force. The aim is to ensure that new provinces have the opportunity to decide on social welfare services in line with the needs of residents and on an equal footing throughout the region. The aim is therefore to prevent inappropriate restructuring of the structures and partial local government optimizations. The proposal proposes to extend the validity of both laws. The extension of the Best Act would be until the end of 23 and the restriction Act until the end of 25. The intention is to bring the laws into force as soon as possible. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u5	There is a pre-arranged speech here. — Congressman Ikonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u6	Mr President! In my speech, I am not going to interfere with the continuation of the obligations of the Paras framework law, but I am focusing in particular on limiting the powers of municipalities and joint municipal authorities. I understand that this need for regulation is based on a social reform, as the Minister has suggested here, but the tightening will not be a problem for the next few years. I'll start with this quality of lawmaking. I am concerned that in this drafting of the law there should have been a wider assessment of the consequences and effects of the law. It is my opinion that the actual referral has not been made to the municipalities — the municipalities have had the opportunity to comment, but the opinion has not been more widely sought. In particular, I would have liked to have seen a deeper assessment of whether the restrictions will unnecessarily increase the costs of municipalities and joint municipal authorities in this situation, when we know that the economic situation of municipalities is historically challenging. Will they slow down the necessary development of service production, that is another big question. It should be noted that, if this proposal is adopted, temporary restrictions will be in force for almost ten years, which is a very long time. Moreover, in view of the fact that the future of the wars is still obscure in many respects and still has uncertainties, is it justified to limit the powers of municipalities for all this time, until 2025, without proper assessment of the consequences? In practice, this limitation has meant that all investments of more than EUR 5 million in space will be subject to the authorisation process of STM, which will slow the start-up process and bring uncertainty to implementation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u9	Do you want to make a debut on the subject?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u10	Mr President! I share Mr Ikonen's idea that it is not necessarily a good idea for us to constantly have to extend these restrictions and also the Paras-law. But that is because we have not been able to achieve social reform, and we are also a little responsible in that as a whole, that this is what we have to do here, and of course these are the objectives here. This contains very few elements that are a change from the previous one. That is what I would like to say clearly here: we have been given a total of 78 licences in force for these investments and only five of them have been rejected overall, which is to say that this restriction law has worked very well. The processing times are also short, i.e. four months have allowed these to be dealt with. To conclude, I would like to say that this does not prevent new agreements. The only question is that these agreements must now become a condition of termination, i.e. the future province will then be able to terminate the contract in due course if the contract is not correct for the organiser.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u11	Madam President! This government proposal has already been on the table in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and in that way it is easy to be involved. I would like to ask you, Minister, when this 5 million investment limit has already come up in the Chamber and it has also been a matter of concern in the preparation of the matter and has also been recorded here in the government proposal: is there a real threat that this 5 million investment limit will prevent investment in large cities? And now I would like to highlight the situation in the capital region, HUS, among other things. In what way, then, does this justification go to these waivers, is it really a concern? I share the concern that the medical districts, municipalities and cities have become. Know now who is responsible for this collapse of the social welfare reform as long as we have had strong criteria. The kind of dirt we were bringing could not be carried through. There was, among other things, an inadequate financial basis. That is not necessarily a matter of this, but what is the situation and is there a problem, cannot be invested, because it should nevertheless be possible to get the wheels of the investment running?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u12	Madam President! I share to some extent the concerns about this low investment threshold that came during the last government, but as has been shown, very few of the wrecking decisions have been taken: 5, as far as I know, of 78 projects, which amount to EUR 2 billion in practice, so I do not see it as a very big problem here in fact. The most important thing is that this restriction law should continue. After all, there has been some misunderstanding in the public debate when it is said that the law prohibiting the outsourcing of this country, but the Minister explained this very well. After all, it is a question of securing the termination clause there when one day there will be a major transaction that more than 150 operators at municipal level will hand over social and health services to social welfare areas, which the interface has made possible totally incomprehensible partial optimizations, tactics — some municipalities have sold
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u13	Mr President! When structural reforms are needed in social and health care, in order to enable municipalities to cope with their obligations — even now many municipalities are in distress — we cannot bind the municipalities to make sensible decisions when they need them. Sometimes those facilities are just such that they require them to be restructured so that they can act in a sensible way. As far as these wrecks are concerned, it has become wrecks for investments that look to the future, reason and support. This point of necessity and urgency is certainly very questionable, because it will take several years before the reform of social security is carried out. And this 5 million rule, which applies to all regions, is particularly large cities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u14	Mr President! We have been trying to do this for a long time, and we must finally get it done, and we must also go to the municipal court and send the message that the social reform is going to be carried out and that it will be achieved this season. This restriction law is needed in order to avoid short-term outsourcing, so that it can prevent a regionally appropriate service structure and the construction of an integrated service system in future provincial war, so the bill is very well founded. Sote giants are currently out looking for large outsourcings in municipalities in financial distress, so this tightening up of the restriction law is necessary — although it is indeed worth remembering, as has been said here, that outsourcing is not prohibited, but this condition of dismissal must be included in these agreements. That is a very welcome and necessary bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u15	Madam President! The economic pressures of the municipalities are known to everyone here in the Chamber, and partly because of this year there was certainly underbudgeting in many municipalities on the social side: it was thought that this was now moving to the shoulders of the provinces. Now, at this stage of the year, the truth is beginning to come out, and then, of course, some municipalities have sold out, some have been outsourced, and there has been some attempt to invest in the fear that soon these local services might disappear. In other words, this municipal court is quite mixed up with these wars at the moment, and in that sense the government is now in need of this clear message and timetable to bring peace to the municipal court. But here, in particular, I raise the concern that, given the current dismantling of wards in many municipalities in the care of the elderly for several years now, and the growing need for these different units in service housing, will this be taken into account now that this restriction on investment:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u16	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for this proposal and say that it is an extremely important proposal until this social reform has been brought to an end. I remember last season, when the assembly drove this market-modeled mess, we in Pirkanmaa, too, the merchant horsemen of the social giants circled around the province and gave this sort of nivaska contract papers and told that outsource for ten years on these and these terms, and indeed, many municipalities were about to seize this. But now we see that we must not give these social waste power, but that basic health care is being built up in public and that this dismissal clause is being included in these, that we can then build its reform right and ensure that integration works. I would like to thank and ask the ministers now that you have made a proposal today for this treatment guarantee — this is precisely what is meant for the development of basic health care: how do you comment on this, and how does it contribute to these objectives?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u17	Mr President! I also remember when last season, together with the opposition, the SDP, we called for this to be restored to joint parliamentary preparation in order to bring about such an important reform together — but this will not happen. I would have asked the minister two things. One concerns the fact that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated that this restriction law could have been adopted at the time, but stressed that these effects will be closely monitored and possible irregularities will be addressed. At least now I can't find out in this impact assessment that something like this has been done. However, this is quite significant when it is constantly being extended. The second point is that — I myself was yesterday In the well-being economic development group, where we are experiencing difficulties with the economy — how this is progressing in this separate solution of Uusimaa, because we have a joint municipal authority in Central Uusimaa, which we would of course like to see followed up. But I ask the Minister: how is the separate solution for Uusimaa going?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u18	Madam President! Minister! Quite a number of legislative proposals that have been submitted by this government have been given the impression that the impact assessments have been inadequate, very limited, and, especially with regard to this proposal, there is concern that the municipalities have not been properly involved. There have been concerns that, as the local government finances are already at a disadvantage, there will be additional costs for municipalities as a result of this restriction. I would like the Minister to answer this now, and perhaps also to say whether this is the practice that will be taken. So we are waiting for that treatment guarantee law, it has not yet arrived, it is warmly welcome. I hope that the Minister will answer whether the municipalities will then be able to assess these legislative proposals in future, and in particular I would like to see an answer as to when legislation on social welfare reform is coming to Parliament. You referred to that health center project. It is excellent to focus on improving services and not on building new taxes and administration.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u19	Let the minister answer now. Is three minutes enough?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u20	Madam President! In this regard, Mr Sarkomaa asked why all the legislative proposals prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, which have come to Parliament, are already being prepared, if I am to follow you here. [Sari Sarkomaa’s interlude] After all, this law on limitation is not for the first time before Parliament. Now be patient with the whole crowd, I'll be honest with you. This proposal, which we are discussing in Parliament as a government proposal, only changes one point: the condition of dismissal will become stricter. During the previous term of government, we have had to tighten the condition of dismissal earlier, and in the Constitutional Committee this line has been adopted in relation to the change in the operating environment. In this regard, we are in a situation where, as Mr Ikonen, for example, evaluates this situation and the chairman of the committee also comments, the prolonged treatment of social welfare reform throughout the country has led to a loss of self-government in this regard. But the overall benefit that has been sought both during the last and this term of government is that there will be a major change in the social fabric when 295 organisers on the continent hand over their responsibilities to the future self-governing regions. Today we have the provinces to which we call as administrative regions, i.e. these borders are known, but despite this, the criterion of the content reform that has been adopted today has also included the possibility of derogating from that model. Today, I have gone through this matter with a separate steering group for the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, and it is a happy place to welcome these two-digit millions so that they can also be treated in Uusimaa. Let's not make things here a problem that isn't. There was also an expert debate here on whether or not to tighten the notice clause in this situation. My own assessment in June was, as was the case with the government programme negotiations, that there was quite a big outsourcing wave going on here. And that too must be admitted in Parliament that we are able to follow the time. This has also been done specifically to respond to the change in the operating environment. As far as this debate is concerned, whether this 5 million investment limit, which is still being met nationally as needed, is being maintained: I have seen it as a good procedure because of the fact that regions too have to sparr out which projects are now the ones to which this small amount of money — which many people have spoken about as a problem in the local economy — is being used. And yes, it's a good translucent. As far as the separate Tampere project is concerned, I will not comment on the details, but it may be that Mr Ikonen will receive what is hoped for in Tampere in the coming months.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u21	Madam President! Now that this has to do with social protection, I would like to take this opportunity to appeal once again to Minister Kiuru and to the whole government that is what this country really needs, a new administration? That is what you are proposing in the social reform: the regional level between municipalities and the state, the new political institutions, the new posts, the new elections. Until now, it has been said that ‘yes,yes,butthe same thing will stopthe future alliances andothers of the provinces’. Let's not stop. This proposal of yours is not going to end, it is going to bring about a new administration. And I do wonder when these exotes and other joint municipal authorities, which have been established voluntarily on a provincial basis, have previously been good at organising and, if necessary, providing social services, and now these regions, as joint municipal authorities, are no longer allowed to do these exotes in the future. What's it based on?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u22	Mr President! During the last term of government, there was a market-based war like a snake in a gun. The Rinte government is now driving the entire population's social welfare system, which relies on public service production. This is a very important change in this preparation of the wares. And this proposal, now this single proposal, is really important for achieving these objectives of social welfare reform. It has been criticised that the restriction law would prevent all construction, but how would it suddenly prevent all construction when this provision is already in force and has not prevented the necessary and justified corrections? The Ministry may still authorise investments of more than EUR 5 million if they are necessary and urgent to ensure access to services. Where's this coming from?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u23	Mr President! I would like to say to Mr Zyskowicz that no one loves the administration. If someone claims to be here, it's all nonsense. But then I would like to say that Mr Zyskowicz in particular remembers the numerous statements made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on this subject, even from the beginning of 2015, when it was very clear that there should be a social war in a larger region and democracy and so on — and now this is what it is doing. That is what I would like to say: these are the continuation of this Parasitic law and then the continuation of the restriction law — and good ones — but then we still have the social war itself. And I personally think that we should learn from last season in such a way as to make it as simple and beautiful as possible. And first, we make the war and it is done on the basis of the constitutional conditions and not on the basis of new elements, but on the basis of a social structure that can do it, and that is the larger regions and provinces. And this is now the starting point that was written in the government program.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u24	Mr President! Here comes a very long period of this so-called prohibition law, which is not exactly a prohibition law, and this is, of course, problematic for the self-government of the municipalities, but I can see that there is a need for further action. There is such a danger of armaments in the provinces: some municipality wants to ensure that its services are higher than that of its neighbours, and then if and when the war is hopefully in some form, then, for example, this privatised or outsourced model is detrimental to the whole business and incurs unnecessary costs. This is the idea of limiting it. But what is important is that derogations are granted, and then on the other hand, that we carefully examine whether these details are in place, for example, this 15% and 5 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u25	Madam President! Indeed, there was a long discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health about this, and in a way I understand the concern of the municipalities and hospital districts, but when you read this proposal, I would see that, after that, in the municipalities and health care districts, that concern will be reduced. In other words, as has already been mentioned in this Chamber, exemptions have been granted at the moment and only about 6% of derogations have been rejected. There was also a long debate on whether this will now be much more difficult, as these will have to be necessary and urgent in the future. On this point, I also pointed out in the committee that it is worth reading out the criteria for evaluating the project, i.e. when you read the criteria under the heading, I personally see that these criteria still offer a very good opportunity to obtain an exemption.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u26	Mr President! This is a real concern as far as investment is concerned. The longer this uncertainty persists, the more cautious the municipalities will, of course, be about developing social and health care that is produced and organised as municipal activities. That is why, while this deadline is being substantially extended and, at the same time, with a very urgent timetable, this was brought to Parliament, with just two weeks’ notice, among other things, my own hometown of Vantaa quite harshly criticises this in its own opinion, which states, inter alia, that ‘the request for an opinion within a two-week period of time is not in line with the practice of drafting goodlaw’. One of the reasons for such a strict period of opinion was that this could not be dealt with at all by the representative institutions, but, as it were, as a job as an official. I wonder why there could not be such a margin of flexibility in relation to the size of the municipalities,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u27	Madam President! Politics is an interesting sport, when the coalition now takes on a regional model, which it did quite strongly in previous governments for a few years. Certainly, as Mr Sarkkinen said, each of us wants this social welfare reform, and yet here are these steps on a much healthier basis than in the previous attempt. What I am concerned about, and also what I am concerned about as the municipal decision-makers and the province's message, is this restriction on investment. For example: Äänekoski has a permit for a new 60-seat welfare centre in the Ministry, and I hope that they will then be welcomed. Such investments are unlikely to be made by any municipal decision-makers or by any municipality on very easy grounds. In the province, however, the population is getting older and the birth rate is small, and there is a real need now to put this care for the elderly in order, and I hope that there will then also be an understanding of this in spite of investment constraints.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u28	Mr President! Everyone in this Chamber is of the opinion that there is a need for social welfare, and the local government economy is also in much distress because of the growing need for social welfare services and the fact that it is also visible in the local government economy. This kind of law, which restricts investment, is not new, as it has been pointed out, but two things: Why could the municipalities not have this consultation? When the previous law is in force until 22, you might think that there has not been a great hurry to make this three-year transition period, which, however, is a big deal in this law. So why didn't they put this consultation in the municipalities? And this inevitably raises the question of whether the Minister and the government do not believe that by the year 22 it will be able to bring about this social war, because it is here that we want to limit it until 25. 3 to 4 months is not a long time, but in construction investments anticipation is very important and [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u29	Madam President! Indeed, this is strongly linked to war, and the will of all of us is that we get it. In my first question, I asked essentially whether this 5 million investment limit has prevented investment in large cities and whether information has come to the Ministry, if any investment is something that cannot be justified, and if so, what could it be like? In my opinion, it is uncertain how we are going to move forward with social protection. Today, indeed, Minister, you have given an announcement that 70 million have been invested in getting doctors there. I would like to ask you: in what way are these doctors now being brought into this public-sector social work? If there are any, what is the lure to get them to the social centers in the future? I think that's one of the biggest concerns: access to a doctor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u30	Let's take a few more of these debatts, and then we'll have a deadline. — — — — Next up, Mr Vestman.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u31	Mr President! Indeed, for the first time, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered it important, when dealing with the restriction law, that the effects of the draft law should be closely monitored and that any possible irregularities should be addressed without delay. I would have asked the minister: How have these effects been followed up as originally required by the Constitutional Committee, especially since this extension is now so long, until 2025? Such a careful impact assessment would be good lawmaking anyway. And how are these shortcomings to be taken into account — to which Mr Ikonen referred in his speech, too, that no authorisation has been obtained? As far as the situation in the capital region is concerned, I too find this low investment limit of EUR 5 million particularly problematic, and it would be absolutely necessary to take greater account of the situation in the capital region and in the large cities in general.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u32	Madam President! In the last period, it was certainly a huge disappointment for all those who follow the policy and, above all, for those who work in the social sector and for those who work in the social welfare sector, that the social reform was not completed, and now I believe that the credibility of the whole Finnish political system is a question of completing this necessary reform. At the moment, we have huge inequalities in accessing healthcare and social services. We have quite big cities today in the face of severe economic difficulties, and the underlying reason is that we need to get wider shoulders and more effective action in the social field. I think, Mr President, that this continuation of the restriction law proposed by the government is well founded in the sense that a change is being managed. I would now like to say that, in the last parliamentary term, the problems of the wars were largely surrounded by the fact that we had to try to achieve such a very broad freedom of choice, and I prefer and we in the centre prefer that the public side should be reformed first.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u33	Madam President! In that previous question, I described the confused situation in the municipalities, and to this extent, I would add that we have this regulation on emergency services and concentration, which has caused confusion in the specific areas of responsibility of certain university hospitals, at least in the Kuopio and Oulu region, perhaps elsewhere. In some of them, these organisation agreements on the division of labour among hospitals are still not done. With regard to this whole mess, I would have liked to ask the Minister again: In what way is the ministry now being instructed in these divisional matters? Is it possible that these particular hospitals, which have already started to drive down, for example, anesthetics and the like, could still be reconsidered and whether it would be appropriate to take this whole concentration regulation once again, which, in my opinion, is so restrictive in such a certain fundamentality,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u34	Madam President! This matter expands like a stone thrown into the water all the time to a wider and wider extent. I should like to respond personally to Mr Zyskowicz, who spoke a moment ago in the Joint Municipal Assembly. I would say a little like Lieutenant Koskela in the Unknown Soldier that when I have been in joint municipal authorities for 20 years, the joint municipal authorities also have government, and in addition to that, the same matters are dealt with in municipalities. During the best month with the CEO of HUS, I was in seven different negotiations with the City of Helsinki. So the model that these things are in the municipality and the joint municipal board is not very rational. A much more straightforward and clear model is a social area where direct elections are possible and the same tasks have been taken away from the municipalities. It is good that we move quickly towards such a system in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u38	Madam President! Minister, I think that you have misheard me when you said that I have said that I have reproached all the social laws which have come here in Parliament. Certainly not, but I said that, for example, the evaluation council has, in harsh words, assessed, for example, the active model proposal. I think the style the government takes at the beginning might go all the way. That is why we drew attention to the impact assessment of this bill. The Assembly believes that municipalities should be consulted, and in particular we want to highlight the fact that different regions are different, and we hope that you too will see that the situation in large cities is quite different from that of small municipalities, for example. This is a point of view that has been raised. I very much hope that the health guarantee will come first. Today you have promised — I read there — that 300 doctors will come every time that development project starts. I hope you open it up a little bit. As a representative of Parliament in Helsinki in particular, I am concerned. In that Regulation,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u39	Now Minister Kiuru responds, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u40	President! Once again, I would like to say to Mr Sarkomaa that this concern is certainly justified but has been taken into account in that regulation. In other words, there are areas in which not everything goes according to the present provincial borders, and this has been taken into account. However, account has also been taken of the fact that the separate decision of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area may not be in line with the regional boundaries, since this separate study is now under way. In that regard, an exception has been created, i.e. the matter is being treated, i.e. it can be done exactly as you said, that funding will also be provided to ensure access to the doctor in New Zealand, i.e. to everyone. The current municipalities of Uusimaa, whether they are involved in a social welfare solution or not, in any model after a separate survey has been completed. In this respect, I think that the main concern of the representatives was that, as we are now trying to improve the attractiveness of the region — for example, Mrs Juvonen spoke about what would attract experts, the experts involved — it is quite clear that the premises are one of the key issues. Yes, we must have the healthy and safe facilities in which this work is done today. That's one thing. But the starting point is also that it is not enough. Walls, physical spaces, are not enough to attract operators. It takes a lot more than that. Many have already proposed strengthening access to the doctor, strengthening basic health care, which is a step in the right direction, which today has already applied for the first start of the reform of the content of the war. It is a big pot, 70 million, next year alone to improve services. But let us also seek to have that say in our own hands, and I understand that very well. Here, Mr Essayah has already pointed out that there is a different type of need for services, whether it is related to the elderly or even to mental health services. It may be that they challenge our present facilities, how all these things are done. For example, the example of Tampere shows that we are seeking new ways of doing things, that we are not closely bound to the kind of physical culture that we have had so far and which, of course, must be able to challenge here. Rather, it seems that this kind of perspective emerges in the national review. I don't have many experiences yet. I have now been given the opportunity to look at and present these investments in the restriction law to the Government, and I believe that this big picture of the future is appropriate for these investments. It has to be said that, since the municipal court is very different, of course, the same sapluon is not suitable for everyone. But is it the 5 million that should be made a different sapluon, or can these five million people in the whole country be inspected? I do not think that anyone has anything to be ashamed of, that we are having a more public debate on what kind of decisions are being taken in municipalities on investment. It has not slowed down the municipal timetables, but it has given certainty to that,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u41	The debate and this matter will be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u42	We will now resume the debate on item 2 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u43	Mr President! Efforts have been made to reform the war for years, and now we finally have to do it. The rapid ageing of the population and regional demographic changes, as well as the economic plight of municipalities, are particularly pressing for reform. Municipalities will no longer be able to take responsibility for the organisation of social services, but will need a bigger organiser, stronger and wider shoulders. The current extension and tightening of the restriction law is needed in order to build a wider, appropriate social and health care system without the complexity or cost risk of major outsourcing and regional partial optimization. Mr President! The Government will undertake a social welfare reform focusing on basic issues, namely improving access to care at the basic level, reducing health and well-being inequalities, the smoothness of care paths, integration between different parts of the system and different services, and cost-effective and timely service production. The aim is to speed up access to health centres, strengthen preventative and low-threshold services and smoother service chains for those who need a lot of services. The aim is to build an integrated system. Integration concerns integration between social and health services, integration of basic and specialised services, data integration and financial integration. The services will be organised on a regional basis and the reform will focus on social and health services. We are not going to go for too big a piece at once and we are not going to mix the system with a market model. The reform of the last period fell to its scope and to the problems caused by the market model and its financing in services and funding. We now know very well where the boundaries of the Constitution are and must now be respected. Mr President! The Government's proposal to extend and tighten up the Social Protection Restrictions Act is needed to prevent municipalities and joint municipal authorities from making large outsourcing of social and health services that could not be dismantled once the province started. This is important in order to enable the region to build an integrated, appropriate and cost-effective service system. Thus, the law does not prohibit outsourcing, but obliges the municipality or joint municipal authority to take a notice clause in the service contract. This will prevent over-exploited agreements or agreements that are not compatible with the overall system from being concluded prior to the reform of the social security system. The limitation is still necessary in this time period, as large health giants are also orbiting the municipal court, looking for opportunities for outsourcing. It is important that there is a condition of termination of contracts, because we have seen that cheap contracts sold to municipalities can be surprisingly expensive. A restriction is also needed to prevent municipalities from cementing the service structure before the social welfare system and thus preventing the development of a regionally appropriate service structure. The Restrictive Act also includes the limitation of construction investments through the authorisation procedure. Investment is therefore not hindered or banned, but investments of more than EUR 5 million are behind the authorisation procedure. I see, as the government's proposal also shows, that there is a need for a clear-up. However, it is important to ensure that the authorisation procedure does not become practically unsupported by the necessary investments in construction and that reasonable, necessary and necessary investments are also made in the run-up to the social welfare reform. Mr President! There is a lot of uncertainty and disbelief in the field as to whether the social welfare reform will take place after years of rowing and felting. It's understandable. However, it is important to strengthen the message that the reform of social security is progressing on fundamental issues. This could also prevent the short-sighted solutions of municipalities, which may be driven by the pressure of local government finances and poor prospects for the future. When implemented, the social welfare reform will ease the pressure on the finances and activities of smaller municipalities in particular, and the government's decision to increase the central government share will make the situation of municipalities somewhat easier next year. Mr President! Thank you, therefore, to the government for the proposal which is now being discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and, hopefully, will be adopted as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u44	Madam President! There have been attempts to achieve this by several governments. Different models have been in the air and the last attempt last spring fell into constitutional problems. I believe that we are very much in agreement that the reform of social security must be carried out as soon as possible. The situation of municipalities and joint municipal boards is unsustainable when expenditure on social welfare and health is rising alarmingly but incomes are not. This is particularly evident in the regions and also in the small and medium-sized municipalities. The migration losses affecting these municipalities and the low birth rate, and hence the ageing of the population, are causing enormous pressures, especially for the elderly. The Government’s main objective is to implement the reform of social and health services, which primarily reduces welfare and health inequalities, secures equal and high quality services, improves the availability and accessibility of services and secures access to professional labour. Great goals, and I'm sure we're all behind these. At least that's how I hope we are. Madam President! My criticism in this speech relates mainly to the restriction law in force since 2016, which places municipalities and joint municipal authorities in an unsustainable situation with regard to the five million investment restrictions. The investment restriction imposed on municipalities, joint municipal boards or foundations managed by the aforementioned bodies makes it very difficult to provide basic services of a high quality. Municipalities or joint municipal authorities are primarily responsible for services such as the elderly, and municipal decision-makers are constantly criticised for their lack of action in improving services. This is very understandable from the point of view of residents. It is not enough for local authorities to explain that the State does not allow investment in these vital services. This is not enough, at least for those of the elderly who cannot get their loved ones into a decent care unit. The law states that municipalities and joint municipal authorities have wide discretion as to how and in what form they organise social and health care services. The extension of the investment restriction also severely restricts the autonomy of municipalities in the management of services. In my own municipality, Äänekoski, like many other municipalities, has struggled with investment restrictions that prevent us from investing in new care units for the elderly. We are drawing an exemption through a foundation managed by the city in order to build a new 60-seat enhanced care service unit, which we desperately need. We have been waiting for years for the direction in which the social welfare reform goes, so that we know whether we are developing our activities as a municipality or how the services will be produced in the future. The investment limit is now to be extended until the end of 25. Is this the case that once again we have to say to our elderly and their families that nothing can be done? This is, therefore, in the event that the reform of social services is extended and there will be no exemption for new construction. I'm sure we're not the only municipality that wrestles with the same problems. Madam President! As such, I understand the restriction of the Paras Framework Act specifically in that, once the wars come into force, the social welfare regions that are to be formed will have the opportunity to modify the service structures in order to ensure the best service. My concern, as I mentioned earlier, is above all about the prohibition of investment in the Restrictions Act and its continuation. We, as decision-makers, will be able to cope with this, but our elderly people, in particular, will not be able to wait much longer for the necessary services. I therefore hope that the Ministry will at least take a favourable view of the municipalities' applications for waivers, as they are hardly made by any municipality on the basis of the criteria I have found. I also hope that, as a Parliament as a whole, we will work towards finally achieving the goal of social welfare reform. That's what people deserve. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u45	Mr President! To begin with, I have to say that a sigh when I read that government proposal and saw how many times the Paras-Framework Act and also these restrictions have been extended. I share the view that there is, of course, no right and good legislation if we always have to go on for a few years, but that there should be a permanent situation. In short, I would like to say that at the time when the Best Framework Act was adopted in 2007, it was the first decent attempt to apply for wider shoulders to provide basic health care on the basis of a population of at least 20,000 people, and I think that was a good solution in that time. And now we're moving on, but quite the way, as we know, with a clutter. If my math is correct, we now have a seventh government that is trying to restructure here in the war. This has, of course, taken shape along the way, so that this decade has already been the goal of integration, which has meant in particular for many that social services, primary health care and special care are in the hands of the same organiser. That is what we are doing here as a government, and with the distinction, in particular, with the previous government, that this broad freedom of choice is, overall, out of it. I think it is very justified that we should now take these new steps and ensure that, when the new provinces come into force in due course, they will then also have the opportunity to terminate agreements here on the externalisation side, which are not entirely reasonable for the province as a whole. As regards the continuation of these outsourcing agreements, the new point here is that this 30% limit will be reduced to 15%, and this is justified by the fact that, if this old 30% limit were to be maintained, it could even mean outsourcing the whole of special care in a hospital district. But then, as I have already said in the debate and many others have said, it is not a question of not being allowed to enter into contracts with private operators who transfer production in social services to a private producer; it is precisely a question of having to lay off a condition of dismissal which allows the new public organiser, the province, then to terminate the contract if that is what it is intended to do. There is no need to do so — if the agreement is good, it can also be continued or negotiated between the parties. That is what I would like to say when there was a little discussion here about whether structural reform would be sensible or whether it would be necessary to reform these contents: there should be no rocket science either, even if in ten years this social reform has not been achieved. We must be able to reform the structures, not least because of the financial capacity of our current organisers, that is, the municipalities. There has been some discussion today about limiting investment in this Chamber. And we actually have 78 licences currently in force and only five licences have been refused. That is why I listened to Mr Kauto's speech with particular attention, because I understand that if there is a question in one's own municipality or region about wanting to make that investment, then of course it wants to do what it does to justify it towards the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, where these permits are dealt with, why would that be possible? But indeed this practice shows that it is not normal for these permits to have been rejected directly, but there has also been a lot of discussion with the ministry and then with the applicant, and perhaps the application has been modified together, so that it will serve the whole whole in a longer period of time overall. Finally, I would like to say that this is indeed coming to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health but is heading for an opinion on the Constitutional Committee, which I think is a good thing. Then we will also hear the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, among other things, as to whether this restricts the sovereignty of municipalities too much.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u46	Madam President! I have already taken the floor in the debate, and I will now shorten the actual speech and use it from the point of view of the debate. I think that Mr Kiuru and a few representatives have already very well explained the substance of this law, so I will not take the time to do so. In practice, there are three things here: For my part, I would like to comment on this EUR 5 million investment limit by saying that I do not think it is the most important question here, and that is why, if I say so now, I can let it go, even though I consider it to be very low. For example, in the largest hospital district, namely HUS, with a budget of EUR 2.2 billion, this is less than one day's expenditure, and that is why, of course, this creates a certain amount of bureaucracy. But the most essential and important thing here is that we continue this cooperation obligation, which has indeed already left the Parasitic Act, and then we maintain this restriction so that we now have to include the notice clause in the total outsourcing of more than 15%. The main problem with these structures at the moment is that for a long time, our social and health care organisation has been too fragmented. The explanatory memorandum states that we have 74 out of 295 municipalities in Mainland Finland that organise their own social and health care services. In total, they are home to just under half of the Finnish population. Then the remaining 221 municipalities have formed 59 co-operation areas, of which 33 are joint municipal authorities and 26 are operating on the responsible municipality model. In addition to these 133 operators — i.e. 74 plus 59 — we do of course still have hospital districts, and there are also large associations of municipalities and numerous other associations of municipalities in the special care area. This situation is largely unsatisfactory. Finland is the only country in the world where health care is organised by a single municipality. Of course, the large city of Helsinki and the 4-5 largest municipality have broad shoulders, and that is why, of course, criticisms of these reforms have also been made of them recently. But the most important question is that we quickly get these wider shoulders in this arrangement, and when it comes to this border phase, when tasks are transferred from municipalities and joint municipal boards to the social areas or provinces that come there, it should not allow for different one-eyed partial optimizations, and that is why this restriction law will remain in force. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u47	Madam President! This restriction law will be in force for almost ten years, and of course it will be a long time for the government to limit the decision-making powers of the municipalities. But apparently the Constitutional Committee has not intervened in such a way that it is still considered unconstitutional, so the proposal is moving forward. I consider this proposal to be largely appropriate. As far as limiting investment is concerned, Mr Kauto's speech raised more questions in particular. The town of Äänekoski is, of course, my neighbourhood, and I know that there too the questions of care for the elderly are pressing, and in this case, especially in this economic situation, we have to assume that no The town of Äänekoski or anything else will certainly make these investments without consideration, and then the surprise will turn towards the Ministry and towards the Government if, in this case, no derogation is granted. In this respect, it can be said that that limit of 5 million is indeed quite low. In fact, municipalities do not do these things rashly in general. The committee might well wonder whether that is appropriate. The second part is the reduction of the percentage of outsourcing from 30 to 15, and I think it is quite justified in that, if an individual municipality in the middle of a province or even on the edge outsources all its wars, then it will come up in an unfortunate way in the future when it is hoped that there will be extensive areas. There is always the danger that a municipality will take advantage of this opportunity to conclude agreements which are, in the overall economic sense — which we should look at here — incorrectly. Of course, this outsourcing is now becoming this step in dismissal, and it is extremely important. Mr President! This has to do with social protection and, in that respect, it is extremely urgent to fight today when we look at the state of local government finances. In his blog, Timo Reina, Vice President of the Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities, wrote that we have an increase pressure on the municipal tax ‘at the level of23%2,2percentagepoints,in less than6000 inhabitants,of 5.5percentagepoints’. This means that some municipalities would have a tax rate of 27%. This is an intolerable situation. He further notes: “The municipal loan portfolio continues to grow. For municipalities and joint municipal authorities, it is expected to grow by up to EUR 9.6 billion, or around 44%, by 23 years’. Already 20 billion were broken in the debts of the municipal sector and it would rise to 30 billion during this parliamentary term. The growth is huge. Well, now you get a cheap loan, but the pressure will be severe in the future. Reina further notes: ‘This year123and in the year23the number of negative annual ceilings is estimated at more than152 than in Last year, which was also a weak year, there were 43 of these municipalities and four of them before that.” In other words, this development in the local government economy is extremely worrying. It must be that Helsinki is the only municipality in Finland this year in 300 municipalities in Mainland Finland that makes surplus financial statements. All others make a zero or a minus mark and a total deficit of almost EUR 1 billion, which is a record of all time. Board of Directors, take this local government situation seriously. Take care of it so that the municipalities are able to organise, secure for the elderly, the sick and the children the services that the municipalities are obliged to do, and prevent these negotiations and thus the reduction of staff, which increases unemployment and inevitably weakens services. If this left-wing government does not understand this, then you are on a very dangerous path. The situation is very difficult and requires rapid action, and next year's budget and the framework for the next four years do not include the money that municipalities need to maintain the services, and when the ageing process and the debt of correction in municipalities still require additional efforts, there is a pressing need. But, above all, in this context, we must quickly make and find a model that is sensible and feasible and that includes: Uusimaa is managed in the same way as it is in the interests of the Neo-Americans.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u50	Mr President! There is a lot of discussion here about the government, and I would like to remind you that the Finns of Peru were not in the government at all during the last two years. It's a good thing to remember that. I tried to ask Minister Kiuru a few questions, but he did not have time or noticed to answer, and that was a pity. There were other speakers here. I myself sat in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs last season, and this government proposal states that in 2016 the Constitutional Committee has considered it important that the impact of this restriction law be monitored and the effects of this restriction law be addressed or situations are addressed if further preparation of the social security reform is warranted. Well, now I didn't get an answer as to whether such assessments have been made. Of course, when the Constitutional Committee gives the green light to some legislation, these conditions must always be read carefully there. Fortunately, this is now going to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, because at some point it must also be a question of whether a law can be in force for decades and whether the municipalities have any legitimate expectations that some kind of legal action might be taken. Although the municipalities themselves have not traditionally been considered to have fundamental rights similar to those of natural persons, there are constitutional restrictions which, in a certain way, then fall within the jurisdiction of the municipality and affect the individual. In addition, I asked about a separate solution for Uusimaa, but there was no answer to it. It is true that the war has been prepared for years and it was good that the market model fell in which the coalition took off last season. But, of course, here the representatives of the centre have now made a great point of saying that it is a good thing that this social welfare reform is now finally moving forward — certainly a social reform is needed, but now it is good to remember that last March the centre drove the government into the wall of the wars by breaking up the government, even though the problems of the market model had been highlighted for months. They were already visible from the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs a couple of years ago in the last period, so I regret to say that this government policy and policy drove past the fact that we had already done the social and health reform then. I also regret the fact that for the last couple of years the SDP has really strongly pointed out in the Chamber that this war must be restored to parliamentary preparation, because this is a reform of the administration of the century in Finland and it would be good to have a fairly broad consensus on how this is to be done, and this is not happening now. So now it is done again by a majority of the government party. Minister Rinne has said that parliamentary preparations are being made for these special tasks and for funding, but this very basis does not come for parliamentary preparation, and I am very surprised that this is once again a policy. I myself am a Member of Parliament of Uusimaa and yesterday I have sat in the economic balancing group of the evening in Hyvinkää, and 60 per cent of our municipality's spending is on social welfare, about 30 per cent is on the cost of education and about 10 per cent is on the other side. We belong to the Central Uusimaa Joint Municipal Authority, which includes 6 municipalities, and through it we have gained a lot of cooperation and concentration and efficiency there, and we are now very scared of this new social model. If there is no separate solution promised by the government to Uusimaa, then when you think that there are 1.6 million inhabitants in this region, it certainly does not fit in with the same form: if you think that there are about 600,000 inhabitants in Helsinki, then the fear has already been that the decision-making power will be transferred to Helsinki during the last period, because the voters are mostly from there and many people will, of course, prefer close decision-makers in their voting decisions — which is perfectly understandable. In other words, at least some voting districts should be brought here now. This parliamentaryism was raised during the last period, but it was somewhat left behind, because there have been so many problems along the way in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that it did not get into that kind of focus. But fortunately, Aki Lindén of the SDP here exclaimed to me that Uusimaa will be taken care of, and I don't know what to do — I hope you meant that there would really be that separate solution and such a sensible separate solution, because at least we did. At Hyvinkää, we have hoped, as many municipal leaders have done, for this five regions, and we have expressed different views and opinions. Let's see if this is gonna happen. But good, and I now put behind my ear this promise by Aki Lindén and hope that it will come true. I'll look after it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u51	Mr President! The Government proposal under discussion is important for achieving the objectives of social welfare reform. Services should not be concreted to specific locations and structures prior to the transfer of the responsibility for organisation. This could happen unless long-term and extensive outsourcing agreements or inappropriate investments are limited that bind future provinces and guide service production. Future provinces must have the opportunity to ensure the establishment of an equal and cost-effective service structure so that it best serves the people of the entire self-government area according to their needs. Mr President! Instead of short-term outsourcing, we now need to focus on improving the content of services, in particular the streamlining of basic social and health care and strengthening preventive action. The Government's proposal proposes to change the outsourcing limit from 30% to 15%, inter alia, because the current limit allows the outsourcing of even the whole of special medical care in the integrated model, which would by no means be appropriate in terms of social integration. It is also important that existing structures should not be dismantled and replaced, possibly even by temporary solutions. Mr President! Now is the time to invest in content.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u52	Mr President! Mr Kankaanniemi's speech prompted me to take part in this debate, and there are challenges here. There are sufficient challenges for municipalities and existing joint municipal boards. In my own province, Kainuu, the cost of social and health care has increased significantly in recent years. Three four years back, the Joint Municipal Authority for Social Welfare made a surplus of 16 million, and it was returned to the municipalities. There was a slightly different view: should it have been left there on the balance sheet of the joint municipal authority and then there would have been a buffer there. It has been tough now, first and foremost, on the part of the Joint Municipal Authority, when the municipalities have gone through the funding mechanism of how much money is being put into circulation and have been underbudgeted in a certain way. That is what has been done to influence the fact that structural reforms are taking place on the social and health front, but, of course, it is also partly due to the fact that we now have a new modern hospital, which, according to estimates, brings many millions of efficiency gains, and perhaps that is why no changes have been made here. With regard to Mr Berg's speech: it is not worth doing anything now, let us move forward in this way and see that the municipalities too have to change their structures in some way and look at the income side, the productivity development on that side. But you don't have to expect the government to help you if the local government doesn't do anything. There should be a common view on how to start developing social and health services. Yes, I am very strongly in favour of the government at the moment that the public answer and the private supplement and then this one sector, the associations, can supplement that service. This kind of three entity here is quite significantly visible. But the cost of special care is rising, and that is why we should now invest more in this basic health care. We also have 20 medical posts currently open from over 50. This shows that doctors have gone somewhere else and are not in the right primary health care job. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u53	Mr President! I asked for the floor, but it is my intention to reply to Mr Mere on this matter. Of course, I respect the preparatory work carried out in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. The municipalities of Uusimaa do. There are qualified people involved in the preparatory work and very broad representation, so I am not going in any way to tamper with it. I represent the constituency of Varsinais-Suomi here at the moment, but I would like to express my own opinion on how such a solution could work. In practice, there are two core issues. The first is that, in my opinion, and I would like to emphasise now that this is my own opinion, we cannot have a social solution in which 30 % of our country's population, or 1.7 million — this is, by the way, just like this, a small thing, that we should now talk about 1.7 million here in Uusimaa, because it is a closer approximation than this 1.6 million — is within a system of social security funding through municipal tax and then 70 % of the country is within a system where funding is channelled by the state. It would certainly run into constitutional problems. The municipal tax could then be decided by the municipalities themselves, either by increasing money or, of course, in a worse case, by tightening the money up to excessive levels. In other words, funding must come in the whole country with the same formula, which in practice means that it comes through the state. In my opinion, a regional structure can be created in Uusimaa, which is exactly what Mr Meri was referring to here. Five regions or four, because it is very small in Eastern Uusimaa because it would be less than 100,000 inhabitants. These regions would be responsible for basic services with this funding model just described, and then the law would provide that special services in this large region of Uusimaa, as is now the case, would be organised jointly by these four or five regions. This is a very brief summary of my opinion on how this separate solution for Uusimaa could arise. In fact, it would be a sort of 17+5 model, but then there would be an 18-region model for special services in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u54	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Lindén, for the clarification, and there were many good ideas. In fact, I myself asked for the floor when Mr Kankaanniemi spoke about the municipal economy and then Mr Pierainen said in this way that the municipal side is doing nothing, and the idea was that there was no point in waiting for the government to provide such assistance. Now I come back from yesterday and when television is watching and conversations follow: I think Helsinki is the only municipality that isn't in trouble. The municipalities have done a great deal, and if I think of my own municipality, we have wondered why the costs of social services are as high as they are. We went to a meeting at Hyvinkää Hospital. We met with the CEO and he told us that we have had, for example, demanding care issues, heart transplants and this type of thing that is taking a huge amount of money, and there is nothing we can do about it. At the same time, the Government Programme is now considering extending compulsory education, restoring subjective day care rights, reducing group sizes. For example, reducing group sizes is an amazing thing, but now you have to remember that when the municipalities are in bad shape, then the funding should actually come 100%, that it has not been calculated in such a way that it is like a little bit less. We were going through our prospects, and there is enough gap there that there is a percentage increase in pressure. But then we talk again — we already have 19.75 tax rates — about the attractiveness and the fact that people are around in Uusimaa, and if the tax rates rise very much, then that traction and retention power is quite difficult. That is why I personally appeal to you to make sure, then, that the municipalities can carry out their duties. As I said in my speech, the cost of social services is 60%. Through the Joint Municipal Authority, we are always trying to cool them and see what could be done. Education is 30 per cent, compulsory education, transportation and certain things on the educational side, which are statutory, so we have the ten per cent we play on. Some of the matters under the Culture and Welfare Committee: even if we stopped working on it altogether, it would not solve this. You can't just go in there and tell them the county doesn't do anything. I hope that this has been understood in all municipalities, and at least we Hyvinkää have a very good record, but I would nevertheless urge that we, as municipal decision-makers, cannot provide those services if we do not have sufficient resources. We're trying our best. Now that you're sitting here in two more places, you know this pain. But I appeal to the representatives of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u55	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u56	Mr President! This is a very important subject for Finnish science and research. Finland is becoming the registered office of the European Biological and Medical Imaging Research Infrastructure Consortium. The establishment of European Research Infrastructure Consortiums will be decided by the European Commission on the basis of the Regulation on Research Infrastructure Consortiums. The European Commission's decision to set up Euro-BioImaging is expected at the turn of October and November. In Finland, the legal personality and tax exemptions of international organisations must be regulated by law, and this government proposal is about regulating these two matters. A research infrastructure consortium in the field of atmospheric sciences has been established in Finland in 2015. In addition to Finland, Euro-BioImaging ERIC’s management centre is located in Italy and the European Molecular Biology Laboratory. A significant part of the operations of the management centre and the top management of the centre are located in Finland. This imaging research infrastructure brings together the national intervention units of the participating countries as a European research infrastructure. In the initial phase, the research infrastructure consortium will have 15 members and 1 observer member and will thus be an important joint project to enhance the work of researchers, the management of research data and access to biological and medical imaging technologies, know-how and training for users of research infrastructure. Biography technologies are also a highly sought-after research technology package in Finland. It is needed by almost all those involved in the field of bio- and medical science. Euro-BioImaging's membership also supports the development of national imaging services and know-how in a broader and more high-quality way. In addition to the central management functions, Finland is located one of the infrastructure operating units, a multi-unit centre of advanced light microscopy, consisting of the most significant imaging units of the University of Turku, Åbo Akademi, the University of Helsinki and the University of Oulu. This government proposal supports the development of the European Research Area, the objectives of national research infrastructure policy and the health research and innovation strategy. In addition, it supports the goal of strengthening the international competitiveness and attractiveness of the Finnish research and scientific community by investing in research environments and research infrastructures.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u57	Then let's go to the list of speakers. — Mr Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u58	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for opening up the government proposal. This is a big package and it is also difficult to understand, but we are still talking about research and science, and Finland as a country, researcher and scientist is in the front line. We do a huge amount of good research in both medical and biological imaging and research. When I read this motion, I really see that this Euro-BioImaging ERIC will have its registered office in Finland. This is a good thing that we get skills here in Finland and at the same time also those innovations and sharing. I would like to ask you, Minister: what are the effects of this, for example, economically and otherwise here in Finland? What effect would this have on this bill?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u59	Mr President! A very difficult thing to say when you read only the title of this government proposal, but this is about investing in research cooperation, high-quality research and the fact that we also have environments here in Finland that the best experts want to study. I myself have understood the significance of this, in fact, when I have met different top scientists. They note that a research environment is interesting where the world's tops are or where it is possible to get them to come, such as here. Of course, this also applies to Finnish researchers. Then they will stay better in Finland if there are attractive environments here where you can get access to top-notch research with the best in the world. This type of research cooperation at European level is therefore extremely welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u60	Madam President! I was delighted to hear Mr Juvonen speak on behalf of the Finnish People's Party in this excellent research in Finland, and I would really like to hope that, when we discuss climate change or, for example, wind power infrasounds, disadvantages in this Chamber in future, we would all rely together on the research results of this Finnish top research.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u61	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. As the colleagues here have said, this seems to be a technical complex issue, but this is the basis for two existing operating units in Finland at the moment. The second is the BioMag unit in Meilahti, which focuses on the use of magnetic fields. They are also used in the therapeutic sense, but they are primarily imaging. The second is the PET centre associated with the University Hospital in Turku, the positron emission tomography centre, which is a national centre. These, and then the equivalent unit in Oulu, form its hull, just as the Minister has said here. The fact that we have been able to create this kind of top research in Finland is a prerequisite for us being able to network internationally, and that is how we can create this kind of network that can, as we have been told here, have its headquarters located in Finland, which is very important to us.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u62	Does Juvonen want to make a normal speech?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u63	Thank you, Mr President. I, Mrs Kärnä, would have just commented that yes, the Finns of Peru are extremely appreciative of Finnish cancer research, among other things. We were the leading country in finding, among other things, cervical cancer and the connection between HPV virus and HPV virus, that is to say, Finnish researchers found that HPV virus and cervical cancer have a connection, as well as pharynx cancer and everyone else. Similarly, cancer treatments in Finland are so advanced and good that we hope with the whole group of Finns, that more and more Finns will receive help, and we are also prepared to share that knowledge with the world. It is great that Finland is interested in these matters. In that sense, we are very much in agreement, but I am not taking a position on this wind power in any way, but I am talking about this health sector and about the fact that cancer is a common cause for all of us and that we are fighting hard for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u64	We are dealing here with this research infrastructure for European biological medical imaging, and I will now give the Minister a reply. Secretary Kosonen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u65	Mr President! Here comes the question of costs. I will answer it directly, which means that there will be no additional costs as such. This is a very profitable project for Finland, which means that, depending on the number of members, this budget is an average of one and a half million euros in the first five years, and Finland’s share of the budget collected with membership fees is an average of 60000 euros per year, and this actually covers the costs of this centre. Since then, the Academy of Finland has granted funding and committed itself to funding this whole and the preparatory work, this was already in 2015-2019. What is really important is that we still have this European biological and medical imaging as a registered place of business, which really strengthens our position, as Mr Lindén said, and we can make even better use of these networks and improve the skills of our own researchers, but also of European researchers, and we can also develop technologies.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u66	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for this good answer. I see that this presentation is of paramount importance for Finnish top-level research and for Finland's scientific reputation in the world. This is an excellent thing. Mr President! I just wanted to remind you in my own speech that science has always been like a flickering flame in the dark and we must, for all responsible decision-makers, lean on the scientific knowledge of our decision-making and thinking, no matter what.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u67	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u68	Mr President! In the Government proposal 50/2019, the International HNS Convention on Liability and Compensation for Damage in connection with the Transport of Dangerous and Noxious Goods by Sea is presented for adoption in so far as it falls within Finland's competence. The Convention provides for liability and compensation for the transport of dangerous goods by sea. The agreement aims to ensure adequate and effective compensation for persons who are harmed by dangerous substances. The Convention is in line with the principles of an international oil spill compensation regime. The primary responsibility for the damage is the owner of the ship. The liability of the shipowner shall be severe and shall be covered by insurance up to a certain maximum amount of liability. The liability of the shipowner shall be complemented by the international HNS fund established by the Convention. The Fund shall cover the costs of any damage to the extent that the maximum liability of the shipowner is not sufficient to compensate them. The activities of the Fund shall be financed by contributions collected from importers of dangerous and harmful substances in States Parties. The Convention would improve the possibility for victims to receive adequate compensation for the damage they have suffered. Approval of the agreement would increase the liability of the shipowner in the event of damage. Under the HNS Fund, recipients of dangerous goods in the States Parties would also participate in the compensation of damage in situations where the shipowner’s liability is not sufficient to compensate for the damage. The Convention has not yet entered into force internationally. However, a great deal of work has already been done internationally in recent years to bring the agreement into force. Canada is the first country to ratify the Convention in 2017, and since then several countries have either ratified the Convention or are preparing to ratify it. This is why the proposal proposes that the Convention should now be adopted by the Parliament in Finland as well. However, the proposal proposes that the Act of Accession of Finland should be recorded only after the Convention has also been approved by the major recipient countries of dangerous substances. The laws relating to the entry into force of the Convention would enter into force at the same time as the Convention enters into force in Finland in due course. However, the reporting law on the reception of dangerous substances is proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2020. In such a case, Finland could provide the information required by the agreement on the cargo received in Finland by the person liable for payment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u69	Madam President! I thank the Minister for this proposal. This is really, really good, since so far the state, the municipalities and the rescue services have taken on a significant part of this responsibility, and now there will be significant responsibility for the ship's owners too -- this will convince these ships. And, of course, it is also a question of making such ships that they do not cause any damage. Above all, when these dangerous goods are too often taken at risk, these risks are likely to be reduced here, and for this I would like to thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u70	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. First of all, Mr Vehviläinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u71	Mr President! Minister Ohio has not been able to come here this time to present this government proposal, but a few words: First of all, as regards this government proposal itself, this is quite justified, and this proposal includes the addition of new grounds for suspending the right to study to the Rescue College Act. In other words, according to the law in force today, only long-term illness or pregnancy or childbirth, and even then for a maximum of one year, are valid grounds for suspension at the Rescue College. And now this amendment, which we have before us and in the debate, is based on the decision made by the Parliamentary Ombudsman in 2018. In it, the Parliamentary Ombudsman considered the current legislative situation problematic because compulsory military service has not been mentioned as grounds for suspension of the right to study, unlike, for example, the situation in vocational education or at the Police College of Applied Sciences. New criteria would be military service, civil service and voluntary military service for women, maternity, paternity and parental leave. The studies could also be suspended temporarily for other justified reasons in the future at the Emergency College, and I think it is very appropriate that these criteria for dropping out of studies are uniform. Mr President! In this context, however, I might also like to raise the issue of the state of the Rescue College in recent times and in the future. As many of you know, the Emergency Services College is located in Kuopio and provides basic vocational training for training leading to vocational qualifications in emergency services and emergency services and provides vocational qualifications every year with fewer than 200 people. Now the last few days have been a little difficult for the operation of the Rescue Academy. First of all, in the autumn of 2018, a very sensible and wise decision was made at the Ministry of the Interior, in accordance with the fact that the entire rescue training will be concentrated in Kuopio, where the conditions are excellent, and we are also used to trusting that this will be the case in Savo-Karjala. This was a difficult decision at the time, partly because at the same time the then Home Secretary decided that the Crisis Management Centre in Kuopio would be shut down and transferred here to the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, but we were absolutely sure and convinced that it would like to see rescue training centred there. But now we have seen this autumn that it was not completely in the hall, but now a few weeks ago the City of Helsinki has been granted temporary permission to re-enter the rescue training. This temporary permit is for a couple of years, and I would like to say here, as a representative of the Savokaryan Parliament, that together we must ensure that Kuopio and Savo-Karjala will not be deceived again at this point – let us not fail again. There is still a great deal of tension in Kuopio about what has been done over the years, almost a decade, more than a decade, with regard to Fimea, and now we have to ensure that rescue training genuinely gets the money it needs, first of all for those additional training places next year's budget, and then that the whole rescue training from the beginning of next decade to the year 22 is really only there in Kuopio. In Kuopio, highly qualified rescue personnel are being trained, and I hope that this house will continue to join in.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u72	Madam President! I consider this government proposal to amend the Rescue College Act to be very good and justified. It is very important that rescue training and rescue-related training is in such a way also arranged for such exceptional situations that it is attractive. We know from professional valuations that, while the people in this hall are together with people who sell telephones in the lower part of the scale, Finns value rescuers and firefighters most of all. It's a great thing, and you can be proud of it all in our security sector. It is also worth being proud of by the Ministry of the Interior and the Home Affairs Administration, because it tells us that when a Finnish authority comes home or into the neighborhood, then it is known that it will now be helpful — not to fear that the authority will come. Mr President! I take that speech from Mrs Vehviläinen very seriously about the fact that the Rescue College, which is now being amended, is located in Kuopio. It is a model example, Mr President, that knowledge and centres of expertise can be found elsewhere than in Helsinki, and the Ring on the one or the Ring on the third. Finland’s best rescue know-how is in Kuopio, and you have to stick to it. I am sure that the whole centre, as a group, will hold to the fact that it is there that the competence centre of the rescue sector will be strengthened. I have understood from the Ministry of the Interior’s press release — of course it would be nice for the Minister of the Interior to be here, but I have read his press releases — that there is also a temporary increase in rescue training. At least I myself have been informed that there is even a shortage of firemen in certain cities. People are not always able to get into a hard, difficult, heavy occupation, so it is good that education is increased in both Helsinki and Kuopio. Kuopio will continue to be the centre of expertise in a few years' time. President! I would also like to conclude by saying that I think it is important for the government to speed up multi-spatial surveys in every ministry, so that it is possible to carry out expert work from ministries and offices not only here in Helsinki. We have universities of applied sciences all over Finland, we have skilled workforce all over Finland. Introduce it and set an example in the state administration of the exploitation of regional expertise. I hope that the Rinte Government will now put those regional policy records really to work, that they will not just remain beautiful sentences.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u73	Madam President! I am myself. From Siilinjärvi and also followed the situation very closely at Kuopio Rescue College and yes, I am in favour of funding being provided and maintained with the absurd know-how and know-how that is there in Kuopio. It's absolute. But for this bill we're discussing. According to the proposal, new temporary grounds for suspension of the right to study would in future be the performance of the service provided under the Military, Civil Service and Women’s Voluntary Service Act. That is the point I would like to draw attention to. This is good. It is a pity that those who have performed statutory military service have been in an unequal position in Finland in connection with, among other things, the Military Accidents Act, which fortunately entered into force from the beginning of this year. I made a bill about it. We had a two-year blackout from 2017, when they did not have any additional insurance cover, so it is a great thing that statutory military conscripts, voluntary conscription women and persons engaged in civil service are taken into account, especially when the laws are enacted or improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u74	Mr President! Mr Ohio is certainly not here, but with regard to this proposal, which we have to decide on, we can say that it is very well-founded and worthy of support, as has been said here. Then, after this extension of the Helsinki Rescue School has been brought up: the decision was certainly not intended to call into question this development of the Kuopio Centre of Excellence or anything else. I would like to say here that Mr Ohio himself has said that this is primarily a question of ensuring that we have sufficient staff to guarantee the safety of Finns, and this limited authorisation will help to ensure that the rescuers are adequately trained for the needs of the coming years, and this will enable the City of Helsinki to ensure adequate staff availability for emergency rescue operations. This is not a question of this big question itself or of the previous decision. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u75	Madam President! It will be a real shame if everything is concentrated in Helsinki. It is clear that there must also be life in the provinces, and that is how life can be achieved when activities are also given to those regions, to other parts of the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u78	Madam President! That's where the office was forced to hang out in this big hall. I think that Mr Vehviläinen has just spoken as the regional representative should, and I think that this is not just a bridge drum policy; it is a sensible whole, a good model, to keep intact and not to break it. I welcome the fact that it is now a question of ensuring that we have enough rescuers – but nevertheless I strongly support the fact that Kuopio is Kuopio and has a college status. But I would like to open this debate in such a way that we do not build what is already being built in Kuopio. I would like to point out here that we in Satakunta, next to Pori Airport, have a very well-functioning and well-built rescue training area. We have the industry surrounding that very area. We have a metallurgy industry, the chemical industry, so there, in Satakunta, it would be very good to focus on the areas that Finland's ever-changing rescue service offers and needs — more diverse know-how — so it would be good if Kuopio had that college status, so that this cooperation could be extended so that the existing training centres in the province could highlight this university level education. I still stress that this area is excellent and makes it possible for us to have an airport right next to it. It gives a completely different dimension. One hundredth of them is a large area of two garrisons, where, hopefully, training for garrisons can also be linked to college level education, because military service also includes certain things that we sometimes need in rescue missions, which are also part of our Defence Forces. Let us expand this debate. I am standing with the flag when Kuopio needs it, but let's expand our thinking so that we don't build everything in one place if there's a framework that already exists.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u79	Madam President! The decision itself is nothing in itself; it is quite necessary and an updated legislative amendment to this day, but all in all to this regional policy, which I think Mr Kurvinen quite well said, and of which I think the Kuopio Rescue College is a good example: Education is one of the best regional policy issues. If we want to strengthen the strengths of the region, it must be done through education and knowledge. This decision of the previous government was largely the result of the transfer of the crisis management centre, and it wanted to ensure that strong expertise and education were maintained in Kuopio in relation to the Rescue College, and it was great that the government partners have been careful and noticed this preparation. It scared the hell out of itself, it was read from there, but I believe that these decisions, which the previous government has made, will strengthen Kuopio's expertise and then move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u80	Madam President! I come here to the podium because there is one minute or two more to say about this subject from the point of view of Kuopio and North Savo. We have had a little strong faith in the actions of the government and the permanence of decisions, as this decade has seen this watering down of Fimea's regionalisation decision, the crisis management centre was transferred from Kuopio, and this autumn the decision to centralise emergency training. The Rescue College in Kuopio seems to be wobbly. It has been common in all these cases that when there is no will to stand behind the decisions, then the next thing is to come up with explanations. In November 18, a year ago, the Ministry of the Interior decided to abolish the City of Helsinki's right to provide basic vocational education in the field of rescue and to focus the education on Kuopio. Nevertheless, it was less than this year, and the Ministry of the Interior decided less than three weeks ago, i.e. less than a year after that decision, to extend the Helsinki Rescue School's permit for a limited period. Mr President! It is good that the promises made to Kuopio about increasing the number of students will be good next year. However, the question arises as to how permanent the decision is now for Kuopio – especially if firefighters are trained in both Kuopio and Helsinki and perhaps more than necessary. Is there another disappointment in Kuopio because the decision made by the Ministry does not hold? I believe that the decision has now been shaken without justification. According to the Ministry of the Interior, the centralisation of rescue training in Kuopio is linked to the implementation of the regional reform. Civil protection education is defined in the Rescue Act, according to which education is arranged as a general rule at the Kuopio Emergency College. However, under the Rescue Act, the Ministry of the Interior may also approve the basic vocational training provided by an educational institution maintained by a public body other than the Rescue College. That is why I consider the connection made by the Ministry of the Interior to regional reform to be artificial, because the regional reform would simply transfer the responsibility for organising rescue services from municipalities to provinces. This should not affect where rescue training is organised — as is not the case with medical or nursing training. I believe that rowing and felting in this area and in others is largely the case that a single minister or ministry is able to decide rather arbitrarily on major and far-reaching issues. In practice, individual ministers and ministries can exercise complete power to determine where government services, jobs and agencies are to be established or where they are to be abolished in Finland. And in some ministries it is done without any confusion, on obvious ideological grounds. I find it completely incomprehensible that today even the central cities of the provinces are no longer fit in the eyes of the services of a few ministries to carry out the duties of service to the entire kingdom. The attitude toward the cities in the region has been even more depraved. Mr President! It's not about knowledge. It's about old-fashioned attitudes. In Sweden, for example, when government services and jobs are dispersed across the Kingdom, Finland has a pipe-like centralisation policy where alternatives other than the capital region are not even genuinely considered. Therefore, decisions to invest state services, jobs and agencies must be brought to the government as a whole for decision at the General Assembly of the Government. Very often it is about people's services, the balanced development of the country, the regional presence of central government and other public bodies, the multiplier effects of decisions and the tax revenues of cities and municipalities. Mr President! Finally, both the Government Programme and high-speed broadband connections and digitalisation provide a natural opportunity to decentralise the network of sites and work across Finland. The whole of Finland is worthy of decisions that it is possible to live, to try everywhere in Finland. Mr President! All in all, however, I support this government proposal, but it is good that there is also a wider debate on the impact of decisions and equal treatment for our citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u81	The debate has now been quite extensive around this issue of the Emergency College. I would ask the representatives to note that we are now discussing a draft law on the grounds of the suspension of the right of access to initial vocational education and training under the Rescue College Act. We would rather limit the debate to this bill. Congressman Huru.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u82	Mr President! I support the motion. In other respects, I would like to withdraw my request for the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u83	Madam President! However, in spite of your recent appeal, I would like to take part in this broader debate very briefly. That is why I asked to speak that I have lived in four localities in Finland, and they are all those who have just been here, Kuopio and Pohjois-Savo, where I attended 7 years of school since my 12 years in school, then in Pori and Satakunta, then in Turku and 10 years here in Helsinki because of my duties. In my opinion, I consider this to be quite objective and I do not think there is any threat to the very good decision that this most important centre of expertise in the field of rescue is in Kuopio. But I also do not think it is bad that, in this transition phase, in order to ensure adequate availability of rescue personnel in this growing metropolitan area, we still have temporary training in this area. So I want to see this now in a rather calm light. The draft law itself, as Madam President has just said, relates to this drop-out of studies, and that is a good technical law.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u84	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u85	Mr President! I object to the motion for a rejection tabled in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u86	Madam President! I support the proposal made by Mr Kotiaho.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u87	The 8th item of the order of business is presented at one reading. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on PeVM 1/2019 vp. The draft law can now be adopted without amendment in substance by a decision which has been supported by at least two thirds of the votes cast or rejected. The committee proposes that the draft law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-15-ps-50.u88	Irade the Talman! Det vilande lagförslaget handlar om en technicalk ändring av självstyrelselagen för att beakta den kommande överföringen av konsumentrådgivningsuppgifter från magistraten till Konkurrens- och konsumentverket. Lagförslaget godkändes redan under förra mandatperioden och llämnades vilande till denna mandatperiod effectsom självstyrelselagen enbart kan ändras i grundlagsenlig ordning med Ålands lagtings bifall. Det bifallet har Ålands lagting redan givit. Grundlagsutskottet har i sitt korta betankande föreslagit att man godkänner lagförslaget utan ändringar och Ålands landskapsregering har också gett sitt yttrande i utskottsbehandlingen, där man inte Hade några invändningar. Lagförslaget har inte några ekonomiska eller administrativa consekenser och torde därför kunna godkännas av riksdagen utan invändningar.
