ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u1	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. — Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u2	Madam President! If anything, I think this is good and I regret that Minister Leppä has not come to this Chamber, but at this point we must thank the government for taking up what is needed. We need to have the tools to help with the plight this summer made for the agricultural sector. It is actually interesting and good to look at my own articles in the summer how I wanted this government to react to the fact that we must ensure that the next year's harvest can be cultivated so that people, traders, can secure self-sufficiency and Finnish bread grain in this province and in this country. I cannot but thank the government for this proposal and I fully agree that this reaction, which has now been made, was a very good one. [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u5	Mr President! Contrary to what the previous speaker said, I consider the government's proposal that the state provide guarantees for existing farmers' loans, only as a transfer of problems, in other words, Burana is actually being given to a serious illness in which agriculture in Finland is currently operating. [Current Group: What's the alternative? ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u8	We are now going to give a presentation to Minister Leppa and then we will have a debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u9	Mr President! With this proposal, the Government looks forward strongly to Finland's food economy, Finnish food production, Finnish agriculture, as I understand that the whole Parliament has been completely unanimous on this issue in the light of recent discussions. The food economy as a whole, domestic food production, care for it, is a matter of everyone's heart, and it is also accompanied by this proposal for state guarantees, which we are now discussing. The aim of this proposal is to improve the liquidity of agricultural holdings by granting state guarantees to liquidity loans granted by banks. The guarantee could be granted for a loan granted by the bank to a farm in temporary liquidity difficulties due to changes in the operating environment or exceptional weather conditions. A guarantee decision would be sought from the local Ely Centre after the creditor made a credit promise. The maximum amount of the loan covered by the guarantee would be EUR 62500. The State guarantee could cover up to 80 % of the amount of the loan covered by the guarantee, i.e. up to EUR 50000, with a maximum maturity of five years. The guarantee would be granted in accordance with the EU de minimis Regulation. Guarantees would be granted from Makera, the Agricultural Development Fund, which would also cover any guarantee liabilities to be borne by the State. The guarantee mandate is set at EUR 100 million. It is proposed that the law should enter into force as soon as possible if Parliament — and hopefully — adopts this bill. The Finnish Food Authority shall lay down more detailed provisions on the forms and time limits to be used for applying for the guarantee. This is part of the Government’s drought package that we drew up last autumn, and this particular issue of guarantee is one of the most accurate means of precision for farms in the most difficult temporary economic situation. It is also the most impressive of those sums, and this will be able to leverage a large amount of this difficult economic situation on farms and, as has been said, on a targeted basis. I consider this to be an extremely important issue and I hope that it will be dealt with quickly in Parliament. Finally, in a sustainable way, this issue, the profitability of agriculture, will be resolved in the market, but that is why the government has wanted to take a wide range of measures — market-related, bureaucratic, EU-involvement and then these specific measures, which are contained in the drought package — so that we can get to a situation where agricultural profitability improves as quickly as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u10	Now, let's have a debate. I would ask those Members who wish to speak to stand up and press the V button. — First speech, Mr Kalmari, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u11	Madam President! It is quite incomprehensible that the Finns of Peru do not support such good legislation and consider it to be interference with some lily stalks. This is precisely the precise measure that will help those debtors who have invested in those farms that now need funding for the transitional period. We believe that once the minister has made export efforts, the market will rise and we will have a better price — as well as the fairness of domestic markets, where actions have been done and not just talked about, as it seems that the Finns of Finland now want to take care of these matters. I ask you to join this group. With regard to climate change, you did not want to see the truth, but I hope that, in the case of farmers, you will understand that it is a very serious issue if the farm does not receive funding over the crisis period.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u12	Madam President! Mr Kankaanniemi did fly very badly here just now in his speech. First of all, Finland’s agriculture is in considerable difficulties. But this proposal, which is now being discussed, is a very good improvement, and that is something that we should all support. It is difficult for me to accept that Minister Haavisto, who led the agricultural negotiations in EU membership, has failed badly. Under very difficult circumstances, he was able to find an acceptable solution for Finland. As far as EU membership is concerned and agriculture is concerned, I can say that Finland's agriculture would be in far greater difficulties if we were not members of the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u13	Mr President! It is true that the summers of 2017 and 2018 were very challenging: too much rain, drought. But we in the Committee on Budgets in the Agriculture and Rural Development have been very familiar with this situation, and these specific measures proposed by the government are good. They are concrete, they bring help to these farmers. Minister Leppä has said on many occasions that this aid policy supports agriculture, but then the real solution will come from the consumer and the trade, and there must be the margin that Mr Kankaanniemi said. There is also faith in the future in agriculture. I would not see it as black as Mr Kangasniemi said, but there is a lot of investment there at the moment. And now it is extremely important that, when this agricultural policy is reformed at European level, there will then be such fair solutions. One example is that on Thursday the Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture is going to Grüne Woche, where Finland is the main actor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u14	Mr President! As Mrs Wallin said there, the summer harvest was largely destroyed because of the drought and last summer's harvest was destroyed for the opposite reason, too much rain. Farmers have thus lost as much as two years of harvest, and that is indeed an unsustainable situation. Many farms operate on debt, and of course the bank will demand their debts by the due date, and if the farmer’s account does not have any money, then there is really no alternative but to take out a loan or take out a debt. And when many recognize and recognize the difficult situation of the farmer, there are not many guarantors in the free market or in the circle of friends. Thus, the only so-called great bailiff comes to the rescue. The government came to the farmer's aid and with this help is trying to get past this temporary default behaviour. This does not eliminate this problem in its entirety; it is emergency aid. This is a very, very good bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u15	Mr President! I remember well when Heikki Haavisto came from the negotiations. He was as dark as a storm cloud. But that's it. Mr President! We do not object to this proposal — I never said so — but we simply consider this to be a postponement of the problems: ‘Let us take up a new debt,and let us make it five years from the State’s office. “ It's not a solution. We know what the Commission proposed for the next seven years as a framework for agriculture last June. It's dark. There will be huge cuts again for agriculture, and it will cost Finland's agriculture an enormous amount of damage. And that is what we are concerned about for a long time. I am well aware that we do not have our own agricultural policy. We're in the CAP, and our hands are tied. That is why this EU is a sad case because it is destroying our agriculture. When we joined, there were 105,000 farms.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u16	Mr President! Climate change has brought both heavy rains into the summer and last summer's drought, and many farmers have suffered from these conditions. Even facilities that are very viable are in payment difficulties, and this is a very important and worthy proposal. But it is equally important to consider how we can improve the profitability of agriculture and improve the various business opportunities in rural areas. Adapting to the fight against climate change is essential, and it is also the cultivation of new protein-rich crops that people want for food. I would also like to highlight the production of biogas, because it sees a great deal of potential for rural areas, for example, as transport fuel. How does the Minister see the possibility of promoting, among other things, biogas plants of a farm size class and biogas processed into transport fuel?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u17	Madam President! As I have already said in my first speech, it is now necessary to return to the fact that the representative: The Kankaanniemi is here to discuss history.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u20	Madam President! This state guarantee for liquidity loans is extremely important in this situation, where, as I recall, 10% of the facilities are in very serious difficulties and are indeed threatened with bankruptcy. We know that today, when bank lending has become even tighter and many farms already have their own guarantees as collateral for previous loans, it is really important that the State should receive this guarantee in such situations. But as many colleagues have said, this whole problem of agriculture is not going to be solved. We know that the low level of producer prices is what should be corrected, and then also a fair distribution of income in the food chain, that is to say more for the producer there. Of course, improvements have been made in this area this season too. You can thank the Minister for that right here in the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u21	Madam President! This government proposal on state guarantees for farm loans is very necessary and is one part of the so-called drought package that was drawn up in early autumn by the government. Last year, due to drought, our crops were about one fifth smaller than the normal year, but some of Finland also experienced total destruction, so that the farm did not produce much. Therefore, any action in this respect is necessary in order to help the farms in this situation. Some of this money is used to pay due bills, but some of them look to the future and prepare for the new harvest year, so that we can then obtain both fertilizers and seeds. It is also very important that the fur trades are included in this legislation for their part. The crop damage also affected them, particularly in the feed sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u22	Mr President! For the sake of clarity: Basic Finns support the state guarantee for liquidity loans. I think that will be clear, and that is what the Kankaanniemi said. [Heckling] And I say that this is a rather wonderful debate in that Mr Salolainen said that there was a great deal to be done and that, without the great negotiations in Haavisto, agriculture would be in a very tight position. If there were, then, 95, good negotiations, then farmers would not be in such a situation today. That's when mistakes were made. That deal wasn't good enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u23	Mr President! This government proposal is good and I must thank the Minister for taking this matter forward. The whole Committee on Agriculture and Forestry is also behind this proposal. But we all know that lending does not improve profitability, and this improvement in profitability is a key factor. Unfortunately, today the food market is international and the food items are international, and it is very difficult for Finland to influence the price level that is determined internationally. If we are to be competitive, everything must be focused on changing the cost structure. It needs to be pushed down to improve profitability. We cannot actually use these crisis packages year after year to boost agriculture, but it must also make the decisions that improve profitability. I ask the Minister: is it true that banks do not transfer responsibility to the government through loan arrangements?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u24	Has Mr Anttila asked to speak?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u25	First of all, excellent speeches have been made here, with the exception of Mr Kankaanniemi. It is now a question of finding solutions to the very drought that was experienced last summer and, as has been said, it was preceded by a rainy summer. This government has taken other important measures to improve the profitability of the business. I think we should thank you for that work. That is why this work is not easy, because even if it goes well, then the Creator may come in the form of drought or rain. What matters now, however, is that, even in the circumstances of climate change, we in Finland are able to maintain our own food production, and that is why I hope that from now on, when discussions take place in this Chamber, it should be self-evident to every party that our own food, our own energy and our own water are the most important life insurance policies of Finns under climate change conditions. You're gonna have to stick to it. Only one sentence for Mr Kankaanniemi: there is no point in trying to invalidate Article 141. It was very necessary. EUR 140 million was money for the start-up in 95 and adjusted production in the A and B regions, with permanent support in the C area.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u26	Madam President! I consider this proposal to be an important interim step in which the government takes responsibility for the day of the farmer's distress. That is how we have demanded in this Chamber that the government bring a proposal capable of addressing that momentary distress. However, it is important to realise that we are forced to make a long-term plan to improve the profitability of agriculture. It should therefore be one of the key elements of the next government: to gather these pieces together and bring the whole Finnish farming and business life into a state where there are conditions for profitability. Now there are no conditions and there are too many changing factors. This proposal now gives us the opportunity to carry out these further studies and programmes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u27	Madam President! This is a very good proposal, especially from the point of view that, after Russian economic sanctions and these two harvests, farms are in a very difficult situation. Many of the farms that invested have expanded production, and now that crop levels have collapsed because of these conditions, it has had an economic impact. To that end, this proposal is the precision medicine by which it is able to stabilise its operation and then push it forward once it has been achieved. And the objective of this is to prevent bankruptcies from taking place on farms. So a very good presentation, and I warmly support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u28	Madam President! We Finns want Finnish bread, but our bread also deserves a Finnish food producer, and I would like to thank Minister Levä for these measures that come first after a difficult summer of rain and then after a difficult summer of drought for Finnish food production. You have to help when you need help. When we look for solutions to make Finnish food production more sustainable, it becomes clear that we need to get a bigger slice of the market for the producer, but also these labels on the origin of the food. I would also like to pay tribute to Minister Leppa for the fact that you did not bend or fold out in front of the EU, but for the fact that you completely twisted this regulation on the origin of food, which also makes it compulsory for restaurant food. I would like to ask Minister Lepä what timetable — whether the beginning of May is realistic — we are going to have for restaurants the obligation to indicate the origin of this food.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u29	Representative Hakanen, followed by the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u30	Madam President! This government proposal is very important for securing future spring agricultural production. This is, as the Minister pointed out in his presentation, part of this drought package, from which a proposal was submitted in early autumn. It was extremely complex, and here is one thing that is now moving forward. This is precisely where the temporary liquidity problem is provided with a state guarantee loan to the farms. And when we remember the previous similar lending, there was also talk of over-indebted, indebted facilities. And now I hope that we will also talk about securing liquidity in such a way that when those individual farmers think about paying a single invoice and purchasing future inputs, they will, however, be safeguarding production in that respect. My question to the Minister is this: are we sure that once farmers have access to that, then this guarantee can be granted to all those who meet the conditions?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u31	Now Minister Leppä, answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u32	Madam President! Thank you for your questions and comments and thanks. It's a matter of common concern. To begin with, three things in general: It is clear, and I agree with all the ideas that we need to get rid of such temporary mechanisms and crisis packages. That is why the government has taken a number of permanent measures to achieve this sustainable profitability. They do not happen overnight, their effects do not appear immediately, but the direction is clear, and it must be clear in everyone’s mind. There is only one point where the food chain cannot give all responsibility, that is, to farms,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u37	Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u38	Madam President! This Government proposal proposes to provide for a law on state guarantees for liquidity loans for agricultural holdings. I consider the proposal to be timely and necessary. Unexpected market failures have occurred in the agricultural market in recent years, independent of farmers. As a result, agricultural producer prices have fallen. The funding of primary farmers should be in order, but unfortunately it is not. The aid system should be simple, as should the administrative burden, both from the point of view of operators and the administration, but unfortunately it does not exist either. Agricultural policy requirements and funding should be balanced. It's not that either. Since farmers are constantly being asked more and more, the necessary resources should be allocated to the financing of the common agricultural policy. The short-term liquidity of agricultural holdings has continued to deteriorate and holdings regularly face difficulties in coping with the costs of normal production activities and debt repayments. The agricultural crisis is not caused by farmers themselves. This has been facilitated, among other things, by the abolition of the EU milk quota and the sanctions imposed by Russia. Food production in Finland must be safeguarded. Domestic food production is also a safety and security of supply issue. Farmers must be supported in these difficult times. There is also demand for Finnish clean food abroad. We must invest more and more in food exports and thus also seek to improve the profitability of production. The aim of this proposal is to improve the liquidity of agricultural holdings by granting state guarantees to liquidity loans granted by banks. However, the State guarantee under the Restructuring Aid Act cannot be granted to improve the liquidity of companies. The criteria of the proposed State guarantee scheme for this proposal would be as simple as possible in order to avoid the administrative burden on applicants, credit institutions and public authorities. The maximum amount of the loan covered by the guarantee shall be EUR 62500. The State guarantee could cover up to 80 % of the amount of the loan covered by the guarantee, i.e. up to EUR 50000. The maturity of the loan shall not exceed 5 years. The guarantee may be granted for a loan granted by the creditor to a farmer in temporary liquidity difficulties in order to improve the liquidity of agricultural production. Procedures relating to the management of guarantees shall be followed, where applicable, by equivalent procedures of the Structural Aid Act. Madam President! These guarantees under the proposal would be granted from Makera, which would also cover any guarantee liabilities to be borne by the State within the limits of the state budgets and the appropriations provided for in the Makera Plan of Use. Unfortunately, the funds available to Makera are rapidly decreasing, reducing the financial opportunities for agricultural investment in the future. With the help of the state-guaranteed liquidity loan, agricultural companies in temporary liquidity problems could organise funding in a more sustainable way in the future, so this government proposal is a very welcome hand-out from the Parliament to farmers. We will continue to need Finnish, clean food.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u39	Madam President! The significance of Finnish food and bread will become even more important in the future. Finns have clearly expressed their own will: they want Finnish food. They want to know where it is, how it is available in shops and restaurants, and they want Finnishness to be clearly identifiable. This proposal provides liquidity for a farmer who, for some reason, is faced with financial scarcity and distress. Here is also a careful allocation, which, in my view, is very clearly described in this proposal: ‘In the form of a guarantee, the liquidity support would be allocated to undertakings which do not have a reasonable loancondition on the non-loan financial market and which do not have any temporary liquidity problems, however,theconditions for continuing to be supported.’ If we had had such a spirit during the last recession as in this proposal, quite a few companies would have been spared bankruptcy. Huge numbers of companies went bankrupt in vain due to a temporary and completely independent loss of liquidity, and if there had been such an understanding, many companies would have been spared. Many companies were viable. They had good skills, good staff, but then came a sudden panic button, where banks called off their credits. And this proposal, which is here, seeks to prevent this strongly, and I feel that there is also such a moral message in this proposal that the farmer is not left alone, but that they understand their needs and situation and want to be involved in helping them. But let me repeat that, as Mr Eestilä said well here, guarantees do not improve profitability. We must now find new instruments for this. Mr Kankaanniemi called this performance ‘Burana’. Well, I wouldn't say this in Burana, but the intermediate stage, too, really is, and the real problem behind it, we have to identify and take it together.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u40	Madam President! This government has done everything in its power to maintain the self-sufficiency of food in Finland, as it is also the most important factor for security of supply. During the crisis there are no surplus ships importing cheap grain or other food. During the crisis, each country will take care of its own food supply and it is the responsibility of every country in Europe to take care of it itself. We do not have a common security of supply policy. First of all, what has been done. We have tried to calculate the costs which Mr Eestilä has highlighted well. Together with the committee, we have done a good job of dismantling standards, and a lot of proposals have come out of the field that have been put to the finish line. This work must continue, not only to the end of this reign, but also to the next term. Much has been done to improve the market. However, we are involved in an international competition, and we must therefore ensure that we also receive more income and money for the very things that have been raised and taken care of in Finland. We have a high level of food safety, our food is clean and ethical, and a good product should not be sold at the price of a bulge. It's worth taking the money away from those who are willing to pay for it. This work has been done together with both the Ministry and in an unprecedented way with Evira. Evira has done a good job of promoting exports this season, and the attitude there has also changed quite a bit. There are many countries where export markets cannot be reached if there is no such cooperation between the authorities. A good example of this is China, where the last export of fish products and the export of infant formula opened up just last week. This is the kind of opening we need all the time, and in that way we can continue to maintain high-quality food production in Finland. In the case of aid, we have also decided on a line that aid should be directed more towards creating added value. If we want them to benefit, rather than, as is the case with the current situation, to increase the rent prices of the field and the prices of the field, when they become capitalised, if we want them to be of real benefit to our sector, then they must be directed towards creating added value. But as far as this crisis package is concerned, a number of measures have already been taken. It has been decided in the energy tax to receive, is the Caretaker project, has come against the costs of the relief a little, and MYEL payments, the LFA subsidies have been maintained, and now this legislative project, which is directed specifically at investments, which are owed to farms, is extremely important to them. During the interim period, now that we have had two years of roofing and the food market mixed up, for example because of Russian counter-constraints and the disappearance of the milk quota and for many other international reasons, it is important that we ensure that healthy, viable farms do not fall off at this stage when there is light in sight in the future. One important step that has also been made forward is that our public food supply will be made according to sustainable criteria in the future, and we must take care of this even when the regional reform takes place, because the provinces are big food suppliers. Another important point is that consumers can influence their purchasing decisions. The consumer can only have an impact when he knows the origin of the product, and it should be honest in that store to tell, and now it should also be stated in restaurants as regards meat products. It is great that we have the courage, up to the EU, to forcefully export these things, such as this legislation, for example, but also this designation of the origin of restaurants. Let us not give up, even if it seems a little bit that the EU is not giving the green light. I am very grateful to Minister Leppa for all this work. Finally, Mr President, for the first time in this Chamber, I would also like to make a reference to whether waste water has been used for production. We have a water framework directive or a water issue before the committee. It is a matter of concern that, even in Europe, water is being reduced and waste water is being used more and more for irrigation. Finnish consumers may not understand that there is also a big difference between eating a domestic product that has been watered with clean water or a product that can give you a norovirus if you do not heat vegetables or berries before use.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u41	Madam President! This Government proposal on the Law on State guarantees for ELA loans is one measure to facilitate the situation of farmers. I believe that many farms will benefit from this when some EUR 100 million is available from Makera's funds. In addition, we must look in the future at the kind of risk management system that will be created for our farms specifically for farming purposes. The previous government abolished the old crop damage law, and since then the situation has been very open. Some insurance companies have made their own crop damage insurance products, but they have not helped the crises caused by natural conditions. For them, the Government took a measure to abolish the insurance tax on these harvest insurance policies. However, I do not think that these insurance-based schemes are good enough. The Agriculture Section of the Committee on Finance visited Hungary last spring, and they told us there that they have such a fund. And the Committee on Agriculture was also briefed by the Ministry of Finance on the fact that a number of other EU countries also have such a system in place. Such a fund could well work in such a way that farmers would, for example, pay EUR 5 per hectare and the State would put its own EUR 5 per hectare in this fund. If we were to be insured for about 2 million hectares of about 2.2 million hectares of arable land, that would mean that some EUR 20 million would be raised per year for this fund. If we look at the long term, we have significant crop damage in Finland about every five years, when we would have a crop damage fund of approximately EUR 100 million. I believe that this option should be considered in the future — even if this crop damage insurance scheme is replaced or if it is added to it by a new system. Now, if the climate changes, the extreme phenomena of the weather will also increase, and that means that both drought and heavy rainfall and heavy storms will be more and more likely, and that is why we need a system of arable farming that can work, because arable farming will then also be the basis for livestock production and thus for the operation of the entire food chain.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u42	Mr President! Now we have to look long into the future. When you look at this future of agriculture, I say first of all that it is a direct climate action, that Finns eat Finnish meat and drink Finnish milk. According to research, it is the cultivation of grass that binds coal and in this way also responds to the climate challenge. Citizens rely on domestic agriculture and domestic food production, and this is a very important starting point when talking about their own food economy. After all, this whole food economy employs hundreds of thousands of Finns, and in that sense, fortunately, there is no longer a political difference in view of the fact that if we were to pursue the whole of Finnish food production and the food industry, there would be political interest in it. On Friday I was allowed to be at the opening of two robot barns in Haapavesi, and there farmers, entrepreneurs, looking to the future, see that when food consumption is growing in the world, we also have production conditions in Finland. That is why it is important for this house to send out a message that, under all circumstances, we will take care of those conditions. This bill is a good transition in itself to overcome this difficult phase, but of course solutions are needed to improve profitability in the longer term, and therefore there is a lot of expectations for the Karhinen Group and for measures to be found in the whole chain, which could also be considered profitable enough for investment to become new entrepreneurs. After next spring's elections, it is important that the Fund for the Development of Agriculture and Rural Development be given capital to help us find funding for generational exchanges and investments. Another important point is that the new programming period for agricultural policy should focus on the allocation of aid to the food producers, that is to say, those who produce food also receive support, and in that sense it will be rewarded for the result as well. President! Finally, when consumers value Finnish food, it is important that labelling is sufficiently clear so that consumers can see what really is a Finnish product. There is certainly room for improvement here, but this is a good thing that we will find out more about the origin of restaurant food in the future, and it is great that we have made progress on this issue, which serves the interests of consumers in particular.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u43	Mr President! Finland’s agriculture has fallen into severe distress. The profitability of the farms is under test. Remedies will require substantial measures on a fast-track basis, otherwise thousands of farms will be threatened with bankruptcy, which would be a huge blow to domestic food production, and this would also have a significant impact on our security of supply. The financial consequences would also be felt. Tens of thousands of jobs in the food chain would also be at risk if the mass collapse of farms began. Finnish food production indirectly employs some 300,000 citizens. This aspect of employment was also taken into account by the coastal fabric in its recent speech. Finland must support agriculture itself. EU support is not sufficient. This is the result of the terms negotiated in due course. Now we are reaping the harvest of the old negotiating results. The Government invested EUR 86 million in crop damage and profitability problems. In our shadow budget last autumn, we Finns proposed an additional 50 million to the crop compensation system.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u46	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Leppää and the Sipilä Government for addressing the problem of agricultural profitability, and it is important that this is now brought before us in Parliament. After the crisis in Ukraine — we all know that this led to events that have led to very poor producer price developments in recent years at the same time as significant increases in inputs, including higher energy and electricity prices. It has also had a very strong impact on profitability, and also, as we well know, during the last couple of autumns and summers, the harvest prospects have been very weak and the harvest levels have plummeted significantly. This government proposal, which has now been brought here to the House for discussion, in a way leads to the removal of the speed levers — even in this Chamber, there has been much discussion of the speed levers. There will clearly be a new instrument that will then be able to gain a little better control through the state guarantee, and with five years, this transitional period will also make it possible to think a little more about the financing pattern during that period. Which is, in itself, a very, very fine thing. I personally hope, of course, that, when this ely centre is applied for, there will be enough clear search instructions to be created and not made bureaucratic, and I believe that this is an extremely important issue. And of course this also has a very important role to play in security of supply. We all want pure domestic food. It comes from nowhere but farms, and Finnish producers play a very important role. The biogas has also been raised here. I myself am also one of those who would like to see more biogas used. This would be an important issue and solutions would also be found on the energy side in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u47	Madam President! This government proposal, which is now in the referral debate, is extremely good and worthy of support. I hope it will be dealt with quickly and I believe that the whole Finnish Parliament is behind this proposal. However, it is worth remembering the fact that this is only a very, very small hand extension to the difficult situation facing Finnish farmers. After two years of roofing, when huge crop losses occurred due to natural conditions in 2017 and 2018, the liquidity situation of the farms is absolutely catastrophic. This is why Parliament reacted quite correctly, but these measures are small, but they are in the right direction, fortunately. Looking at the current situation of Finnish farms, for example, it is a real problem for the market. Think of milk production and food production in general, the prices of raw materials on the market: food has been cheaped by all possible means, and in all these options the producer has been the payer of its actual decline. After all, it is quite shameful for a country like this, which is here in the north of 60. North of the parallel, we have that group of people, farmers who guarantee us clean food and that we can live safely here for the next few decades too, have come into this situation in the face of market forces. Then Parliament has tried its best to remedy this situation. That is the case, but sustainable solutions must be found here so that the profitability of agriculture can be secured and Finnish food production at the same time is safeguarded. It is worth remembering that we have some 300,000 jobs in the food chain. It's no small thing for this nation. It is a question of gross domestic product in the economic sense, of public health to the greatest extent. When we eat clean food, the likelihood of various diseases will certainly be reduced. Or is our alternative, as Mr Kalmari mentioned, food imported from Central Europe which is not necessarily clean? As Mr Kalmari mentioned in his speech, you can really buy a food product from a store, get almost anything for yourself. Therefore, when there is clean Finnish food in the same store, we Finns ourselves would have such a dark place of self-examination, that what we really want for Finnish agriculture and clean Finnish food. These 300,000 jobs in food production are also important for us to be able to say forward that we ourselves produce our own food. When you look at the world situation outside Finland’s borders, you cannot escape the impression that there is going to be some sort of small crisis all the time. The cheapest life insurance policy in the nation is its own food production, which is carried out in family farms throughout Finland, using a distributed model. Finally, Mr President, it should be remembered that during the last winter war and during the post-war war, the best life insurance for the Finnish people
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u48	Madam President! Indeed, many speakers have welcomed the fact that the government, as part of this drought package, provided this state guarantee for liquidity loans. And, as has also been said, this is, of course, only the present aid for these farms, which are in very serious difficulties because of their liquidity: about 10% of the farms are on the verge of bankruptcy. I read here some time ago about the future of the countryside, how many farms are also in which after a year, when the accounts are made, it has to be said that this work did not actually leave the producer the actual salary, that it was just then that the costs were covered by the revenue. And, of course, in the longer term, if you think about continuing with that farming, it does make you wonder, ‘ Is there any other joy than to be part of that important industry — but it really doesn’t mean bread for itself or for your family? ’ Indeed, in their own alternative last autumn, the Christian Democrats pointed out that we should have already been able to respond to this drought and to these varying natural conditions with a package of 100 million. We understand that, in the longer term, the low level of producer prices must be raised and, indeed, a fairer distribution of the result of this food chain must be ensured. During this term of government, we have only just been appointed, now this food councilman, and it is very important that he, as an independent actor, be able to consider, for example, this income-sharing effect. And, of course, it is important that we try to influence these emergency aid packages, but as a longer-term solution, we should be able to consider how to influence producer prices and their fair distribution. As far as these producer prices are concerned, this period has been marked not only by a general reduction in world market prices but also, of course, by the dismantling of milk quotas at that EU level, and then these effects of the crisis in Ukraine have also been borne by agriculture. Agriculture has a job-creating effect, it can be very large locally. For example, in my own region — because the milk processing industry is there — there are almost 1,500 jobs and associated jobs, taking into account all the machine operators and the like, so it is very important for a small municipality. Nor can we forget this regionally important employment effect of agriculture. Madam President! Perhaps I listened a little bit to Mr Kankaanniemi's speech with the fact that it was a good thing to review the past, but I feel that these things that he has raised may not work quite in today's world.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u50	Madam President! Without going back to the history of Mr Kankaanniemi, it has been extremely good to hear the debate now that we are moving forward. That's what we need. And now that you can rob a little in the context of the conversation: We really need to develop our own business and the export industry of farmers, which means that the prices of domestic food are rising. We are a very potential export country, we want clean products. We have a very good market opportunity across Europe, Asia, which this government has now been quite able to open up through both poultry and pork. Thank you for those efforts to the Chief of Staff and the Minister. But we need to see that we should not start remembering the old ones here, but we need to genuinely start discussing how we deal with the fact that our self-sufficiency in food production can be secured in such a way that everyone in Finland has access to clean Finnish food. And this government proposal is one step in saying that from the left, from the opposition, it must be said that this was the right thing to do and that it should be supported. About what will happen in the future: This is not, as Mr Laukkanen said, an intermediate step. This is for this crisis, which was now. We have experienced two crises — one of humidity and the other of drought. And now we've done this. However, I would like to make it clear that if we talk about how money is given, we must remember the environment. We cannot go in such a way that, with this same formula, we do not allow those operators who use renewable energy to be in the same position as those who use fossil fuels. We also have good players in agriculture who, in fact, allow them to be given this opportunity, which was done in the previous year, but because of the use of renewable energy, they were out of the picture of wet grain being dried. We must now have a long-term view of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u51	Madam President! History is a very important subject at school, and it is also very important in this Chamber that we look at a little longer in the perspective of social development in different sectors and as a whole. I myself happened to be here when I came in 87, following the system that was then. For example, the Minister for Finance, Mr Liikanen, fought nicely and with praise for agriculture — perhaps it is not possible to say that he did, but he agreed. [TimoHaraka’s interlude] I was also a member of the ministerial group which led the EU accession negotiations, and I know very well and I was able to follow in the inner circle how those negotiations went and what the outcome was. EU membership was achieved in this Chamber and in a referendum on the basis of the Aho Government’s national aid package to alleviate the plight of agriculture, and that amounted to $750 million. There were 8 ministers in the centre, 6 in the assembly and 2 in the Swedish People's Party, i.e. there were 8 to 8 in the government. The city centre needed a support package. The Coalition Party and the RKP opposed it because they saw or feared that it would bring down EU membership, that was the most important thing for them. I was the scales language, and I leaned to Finnish agriculture and the farmer, and that was how the race ended, and it was created, and this support package was drawn up. As soon as the election took place a few months after the start of membership, Lipponen, Sauli Niinistö, Claes Andersson, Pekka Haavisto and Ole Norrback — the group and the RKP were involved — that package was scrapped, the money was taken away, and so began the agricultural dismantling, which has then continued in the negotiations on agricultural subsidies every seven years, and Finland has lost every time. And now the next steps are underway, and the basic proposal from the Commission is about a 20% cut in agricultural subsidies. In this situation, where agriculture is in Finland, a 20% cut is fatal, and I am deeply concerned about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u56	Let's stick to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u57	Madam President! There has been a wide-ranging, good debate here, mainly in support of agriculture and food production and in support of problems. This government proposal is now precisely part of the drought package, and it is not a form of support that can safeguard the liquidity of non-inputs this spring for farms, so that it can continue to grow there on farms. And of course we all sign what the Minister said in that presentation that we must invest in basic support. We need to get euros from the market, and we need to be able to get rid of these crisis packages, and it has also come out from the left to the right here, among other things, in all the speeches, that we, with this common goal, can still work in this Parliament over the next few weeks. And I hope that in the parliamentary elections too this basic support will be strongly expressed. Here are also a few things that have been overlooked: the guarantee for capitalisation now comes from Makera, and when we look back at the beginning of this reign, the rural development fund had not been capitalised during the previous parliamentary term. This government significantly capitalised it, and we now see how we should mobilise this agricultural investment recovery so that we can safeguard production in the future. Here's one big challenge for the coming spring. There is also a great deal of recollection here of the old stages of agricultural policy — even in two speeches just now, Mr Kankaanniemi, about the period after accession to the EU. It is, in fact, good at times to bring to mind what happened then and what kind of agricultural package system we have then set in motion. And I must admit that we are also facing a major challenge in the new reform of agricultural policy, even in the coming autumn, when Finland is the EU Presidency, to secure the extent of this domestic food production, both from the south to the north and from the east to the west. And, ladies and gentlemen, that is where we are actually in a situation where we have to take into account the individual challenges, that we are not going to end up with domestic livestock production in the AB area towards the north of Area C. We must be able to ensure that young farmers can believe and trust that livestock production can still be carried out in the AB area. There are strong examples here: the 141 aid that was negotiated at the time was transitional aid, which today is nothing but small tails. About 6 million will be paid this year, and we will be losing that share of national aid. Among other things, coupled support was particularly well negotiated for this programming period, and I hope that this will also be a success for the coming programming period. In that respect, we will therefore have a lot of challenges for the coming programming period. We also have challenges here: we talk all the time about how we can get inputs for spring with this good government proposal on many farms, but we also have big challenges in support policy for the coming year 20. In other words, we must also dare to take responsibility during the spring, ladies and gentlemen, whatever the party is, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u65	Madam President! This good speech by Mr Hakanen can well be continued. This profitability of agriculture is a bit difficult to understand all of a sudden. When we think of the Rural Development Programme of Mainland Finland 2014 to 2020, for example, the total package is 8.3 billion, i.e. around agriculture, counselling and many others, there is a lot of money going on, but the problem is that for farmers they are often passing through and their own well-being in this big picture has fallen to a slightly lower level in recent years. That is a perfectly understandable thing, and we know what the profitability of equity has been. Although this government package is excellent and worthy of support, we must nevertheless recognise the fact that agriculture cannot always be said to be poor and poor in terms of profitability, because it has a wide variety of farms. In the same sector, such as meat or milk, some are doing well and then there are farms with very low profitability — similar farms, roughly the same volume. There are many factors related to the management of capital: we have investment subsidies, whether they have always been correctly targeted in the final analysis, what the price level of investments has been. These historical factors are not so simple as to explain why this has come about. And, of course, when we have to judge the future, I would see it as a key factor that these investments are carried out in an appropriate way, that they are aimed at a certain degree of lightness and that we are paying attention to the structure of costs that farms have today. We all know that the price of energy has risen. It is easy to raise those prices, but what does it do at the end? Why is the property tax so high on farm production buildings? Why are licence and control fees high? All these cumulatively create a situation in which cash flow, which is determined internationally, is no longer sufficient to provide the farmer with the livelihood that should be. The worst thing about this is that if young people run out of faith in the future, then, in a way, in the long term, the number of farms becomes so small that the investments in the food industry, such as those in Upper Savo, are in the Gulf of Lapland. By Valio, significantly done, is beginning to be compromised. That is why this is a national issue, and I think that this debate is a good one. Here all parties are beginning to be on the side of the domestic food industry and agriculture, because we all know that in today's uncertain world there may be a situation where real problems arise if we think that we can only live on export. Madam President! I would like to raise one more point. This is the small businesses in the food sector. Our legislation has been built quite far into the fact that these large players are able to operate and their competitiveness has been secured. But in the same way as elsewhere, small businesses are coming to the food industry. We know that it is for them
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u70	Madam President! I think I'm going to talk about agriculture for the second time, and it's the same reason because I've been following my wife's home farm for 51 years. When we were engaged, the farm had 100 acres of field and 20 cattle. I think there are two and a half hundred hectares of land at the moment, and the first beef has not been seen for a while, but even more horses, although only for riding. Through civilian work, I have had to work closely with the development of agricultural products for more than 40 years because the research institute originally owned by Unilever became a subsidiary of the company I own and is constantly developing various food products. For a long time I was on the Tekes Board of Directors, more specifically the Board of Directors, when I noticed that there are areas in which the state should invest, and then conditions are created for a certain sector of activity. Perhaps the most important and most famous was that Tekes financed the gaming industry with the necessary platform funding so that the development of games is now possible. No company in Finland could have tolerated that risk recovery even afterwards, but the results are staggering. There are many others where product development has led to the growth, development and ability of the industry to create a situation where they are competitive in all directions of the world. The food industry, and actually living on a farm, is the entity in which an organisation such as Tekes should be developed. It could leave the Agricultural Development Fund, which should only be given a broader job description so that it creates products, production conditions or concepts where the local small business operator, probably the farmer, can start as a secondary business or become partners with others in order to create cooperatives to do something about it. On many occasions, the possibilities of Finnish water on the world market have been considered, among other things. There are all the conditions for this, but the thresholds are so tough that none of them seem to make it very easy to get beyond the beginning. Finnish conditions are also in which certain natural plants are, I would say, in relative superiority. A long, bright summer will create conditions for birds other than nesting birds, but should develop such products and then get the market started. This current proposal, which the government has made, has rightly been well thought out and well thought out, excellent, but it will only solve this temporary problem, which is likely to be repeated after 10 to 20 years in the same way, when the weather conditions will cause two consecutive years to disappear. This agricultural development fund may require between 100 million and 200 million dollars, but it could also lead to the transfer of labour from agriculture to the capital region or other growth centres, but could find a job in its own region. As far as the structure of the community is concerned, it would mean that day care centres, schools and housing would have to be rebuilt to the same extent. This would be a good solution for the utilisation of national wealth. It would also indirectly maintain service production, services, trade and the like, in rural areas and would make sense for the whole country to be inhabited. For some reason, the development of agriculture has left the livestock sector or agriculture and plant breeding, and not so much has gone into the search for solutions on the commercial side and the exploitation of new technology and science. I think that we should invest in this in the future, and I assume that there will be a lot of people in this Chamber who will be able to contribute to the exploitation of this broader vision.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u71	Honorable Speaker! This state guarantee for the liquidity loan is a good government proposal. This will hopefully enable farmers to acquire those inputs in the spring. But I wonder why it is not enough to reach about 46 million, which could have been granted under the de minimis quota, but only this 20 million. In my opinion, this in itself is temporary, even as a matter of urgency for agriculture. This in itself does not help the profitability of agriculture, which we should actually pay much more attention to. That is where we proposed before Christmas that this producer share of this cake should be increased, and we voted on this kind of income from primary agricultural production. In that vote, 31 Members of Parliament supported my proposal. It was disconcerting in this vote that the representatives of the SDP were not in favour of guaranteeing farmers, primary producers some greater share of this end price of the whole product. The Left and the KD must be commended for their broad support for this. I think they were all there to support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u74	Madam President! Agriculture is one form of entrepreneurship and, once it has become apparent, there are some 300,000 jobs in the sector and, indirectly, there is certainly much more. The aim of this presentation is to improve liquidity and help entrepreneurs move forward. Of course, this will not solve these structural problems, but all the support that is available in this situation is worth giving, and in that respect this is a step in the right direction. Mr Kalmari took the example of fish exports to the Asian market as an example, apparently referring to the Fish Council in Sastamala, which has indeed managed to open salmon exports to the Chinese market after many years of effort. It is not easy to tick, but it is a remarkable achievement. The interesting thing about the background of this company is that this company has also had ups but has also had downs, and there have been times when it was on the verge of going down and going bankrupt. It gives historical depth and understanding that if a company is fundamentally healthy, it is worth introducing support mechanisms beyond such market failures. It will safeguard local livelihoods and jobs. Mr Eestilä referred to an increase in the population and, in this context, meant that there would certainly be an increase in the demand for food. I agree exactly, and if we add to this that climate change is changing the opportunities for food production in southern Europe and Africa, it is quite certain that there will be more demand for Finnish, clean food. I believe even a little optimistic that Finnish agriculture is facing a real Renaissance when we are only able to work long-term.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u75	Madam President! This government proposal must indeed be supported as such a package of aid. As early as last summer, the KD's summer meeting, in the midst of the agricultural crisis, left an appeal for a crisis package of 100 million, a package of aid, and it is good that something like this is now at hand. Finland has a clean nature and we must take good care of it. I think we all agree on that. Food produced in a clean environment is in fact worth more than gold and is also appreciated in the world. But we must ensure that farmers have the opportunity to act and produce these cleanest foods in the world. Just as Mr Kiuru mentioned earlier, I also think that, when climate change is going on — no matter what we do, it is likely to progress — the potential of agricultural production across Europe and Africa will change. I think that Finland's operating conditions must be taken care of. We have already opened up opportunities for exports, and I believe that there is a demand for the cleanest products in the world when only those routes are found and the openings are started. There has been much talk of self-sufficiency, and I would take it for granted that we must take care of self-sufficiency when it comes to food production. The world is changing, the climate is changing — many uncertainties are already at hand. Self-sufficiency in food production must be taken care of. We in Finland take careful care of farm animals and there are regulations for that, and that is a good thing. We take care of nature, and that's a good thing. But I think that farmers, people who work in agriculture, must be taken much better care of than we are doing today. Just as we understand the need for social and health care, and together we are investing in active social and health care actors and models, as well as agriculture, its operators and its operating conditions, we should take care to work together to ensure that agriculture and its operators, the producers, are well-being. Here, of course, we come to profitability, to basic support, which has already been mentioned several times. We need to get it to a better level. We call for joint negotiations between the various actors. Together, we need to find ways and means of improving the profitability of agriculture, which is precisely the basic profitability, and we will get to grips with it. I would like us to take better care of people working in agriculture and their operating conditions, as well as self-sufficiency and that agriculture and rural areas should:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u76	Madam President! Yes, excellent speeches have been made in this Chamber to defend the government's proposal, and I agree with them. And right there I thought, ‘ I wish I could just put a repetition button there — Mr. Tanus gave such a good speech that there is little to add. ’ I myself wonder how the MTK and the farmers have been very concerned about why the one who does the most gets the least. And the question of productivity does not, of course, improve with this proposal, but it is a signal that we care, and it gives us faith in the future, especially for those who wonder whether it is worth still trying here to see what future prospects are. In this respect, of course, climate change also poses challenges. Of course, it may also be possible to do so, but I personally see that, in this area of agriculture, for example, research, product development, varieties and so on, we are very serious about the fact that the funding there is also in order. Yes, Finnish food is the cleanest food in the world. It is of high quality, it can be trusted, and it is also as ecologically produced as possible, both ecologically and in this northernmost agricultural country in the world. So, of course, it also takes energy, but we must accept that if we want to take care of our food self-sufficiency in the future. And in that sense, of course, we must hope that this common vision will then be enough over the parliamentary term, not by confrontation but by cooperation. And yes, it is necessary to say to Mrs Vähämäki that, in those electoral panels, it is worth keeping the ballots involved, that, in this Chamber, however, we decide what we really think. We all know how to talk, but then, when we decide on the money, and when it comes to the situation, we actually show whether we are concerned about the profitability of the producers, their livelihoods, their survival, their survival, their survival, their survival, that means a lot to us, whether we are going to split or not. In that sense I would hope that the next time you come to this sort of excellent presentation, as represented by Vähämäki here did before Christmas, it would then also go through, not only on the level of speeches but also then on the level of actions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u77	Mr President! On two occasions now, we in the Committee on Budgets must have called for more sustainable, more permanent, more insurance-based arrangements to be made alongside these repeated one-off premiums, and in that respect, of course, we are in favour of this proposal. But now, Mr Kankaanniemi's speech requires a small check of the facts. He was so lenient about the trade, the Finnish grocery store.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u80	Madam President! Today we are dealing with a law of this kind that organises crisis lending and supports farms and other rural areas in this economic crisis, which they have been caught up in since the drought last summer. In several years, Finnish agriculture has been in very severe difficulties for various reasons. The background is a Europe-wide market disturbance, a policy of sanctions between the EU and Russia, a very wet summer of 2017 and now last summer, an exceptionally dry summer of 2018, so that you can start to talk about the seven thin years already mentioned in the big book. This is a very good law, and these state guarantees are likely to save some Finnish farms and help them move forward. The problem we face in this crisis in agriculture is that there are many times of difficulties in farms that have just invested, that is to say, expanded and developed their own farm. The situation may be that if there is a little smaller barn and there are debts already paid and the farmer couple is a little older, they will be able to move on evenly, but the problems are precisely those younger producers who should then, in 10 to 20 years' time, guarantee that we have domestic food in Finland and that we have security of supply and food security in order. As has been said here in the previous debate, I personally believe that we must continue to see whether this structure of trade is too concentrated. Very good results are currently being achieved by our grocery store, retail, and then all the time the results are getting weaker when you go to the rest of the chain, industry, not to mention the premises. In my opinion, during the next parliamentary term, we still need to look at whether the competition law and the Competition Authority need to be given new tasks and see that such practices like railing do not take place there. Mr President! At the end of the day, this will also make it easier for the affected fur farms. The Turkish economy was doing quite well in the early part of the decade, but in recent years the prices of products, skins have been slightly lower, and there too have been heavy pressures. I also think it is wonderful that the fur industry, the fur industry, are recognised as similar rural companies, honest and good rural companies, which bring a great deal of export revenue. In fact, the fur economy also brings a lot of income to the capital region when there is one of the largest fur auctions in the world, and I therefore consider it important that Parliament continues to recognise the role of fur farming not only as an existing but as an evolving industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u81	Madam President! The Finns of Peru are in no way opposed to this support package, even though it has come here that the Finns of Peru are against it. This history was well highlighted by the Kankaanniemi and one can learn from it: the agricultural policy regulated by the EU, the kind of collective that was probably practiced in that Soviet Union at the time. And that is the future, at least for the farmer, which means that they will only become serfs, true serfs. There is no matter how much debt there is, there will be more taxes, including real estate taxes. There is no value in such barns, but taxation is. In other words, if we really want to interfere with the fact that the producer receives the money, let us do what Olvi did. The meat producer gets that money straight, 20 cents a kilo. Everyone buys meat produced in Finland after that, preferably paying 20 cents for it, there is no need for any support policy. Similarly, cereals, dairy products and so on, are given directly to the farmer, and then there is no need for bureaucracy to run through the EU and there is no need for trade. They will take their share of it, but it will go directly to the producers and they will be able to cope and the problems will be addressed, and there will be no need for subsidies from that EU then.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u82	Mr President! Indeed, this proposal also relates to the profitability of agriculture, where the situation is serious. It really requires facts and a conscious policy. It does not go far with basic Finnish rhetoric.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u91	Madam President! During this summer I visited several such agricultural farms, i.e. cattle farms and farm farms, and when those problems were considered and [OlaviAla-Nissilän intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u92	Mr President! It is very good that we now have a government proposal for a state guarantee for liquidity loans under discussion. As has already been said in many speeches, this is an acute remedy for an acute crisis, but a number of other measures are needed to achieve longer-term use. In practice, this in many farms means that the liquidity loan will be able to buy this year's, this summer's inputs, in order to continue production at all. And, as has been mentioned here, for example, in Mr Sem's speech, and many others have been raised in the past, at the moment, a large proportion of these farms in the most severe economic difficulties are precisely these farms of young farmers or of farmers who have just invested, or have acted exactly in accordance with the message that has come out of this Chamber over the years: we need to develop, expand, invest, strengthen, invest. And even if the production itself is very efficient and effective, the debt burden of the investment and the full speed of its production have produced a situation in which the increased production costs have no longer been met by sales revenue or by financing costs. There has been a lot of talk about profitability here today and, as I said, this liquidity loan is a good remedy for this acute situation, but it is clear that we need to make farms more profitable on a more sustainable basis. The main reason for this situation is the wet summer of the year before yesterday, the very dry summer of last year. Of course, these foundations are true, and many farms have experienced very great difficulties because of these weather conditions, but the basic problem is that rising production costs have not been able to be taken into account and that must be changed. We have the cleanest products in the world, the most transparent, the world's most controlled, the world's most traceable food chain, and then only the world market prices for bulk food are obtained. We need to change this. It is very good that we now have the job of the Food Commissioner, the representative of the Food Market Ombudsman, which objectively assesses whether this distribution of income in this food chain is right and sustainable. Representative Harakka here referred to the PTT study, and research and news coverage is of course recent, but the data behind it is old enough that the situation is hardly the same anymore.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u93	Madam President! There are a few more points I would like to clarify: In fact, from that parable of Mr Ala-Nissilä, that 90 cents per citizen per day is the cost of the European Union and that, in that respect, this agricultural policy is also guaranteed as part of the European agricultural policy and here at national level some elements of it are also possible: When it is said many times that more national space is needed, it must always be remembered that it must also be the case that it is there that the agricultural policy package is approved within the European Union, and the mere fact that we do not recycle money through the EU does not guarantee that we can pay any more at national level – as everyone knows well. Then a few thoughts about what came up here. Representative Vähämäki took a very important question in the Chamber just now, that why was it not extended even further to this whole, because there would certainly have been an order and the need to actually stabilise with longer efficiency rather than just five years, and now we are talking about EUR 62500. There is, of course, one big problem here, the very many methods of our agricultural policy, which have different instruments and which, among other things, this de minimis aid already restricts this possibility of payment to some farms that have already reached the level of de minimis aid. In that regard, however, this idea of the even more stable option by Vähämäki might not have been possible from the point of view of the farm level to the extent that you certainly thought. Then on the subject raised by Mr Haraka on the role of trade and industry and the role of the primary producer: Of course, I would like to raise one point where I know that we have a lot to do, and that is that we are more and more sensitive to trade. In that case, the industry's own branded product will be significantly lower in sales volumes when we go to that domestic trade's own note. The cost of its production will inevitably be reduced to a minimum by trying to put it on the shelf more cheaply for the consumer, and that, Mr Harakka, will not be covered to the extent that when it comes to a comparative product on the shelf, a brand product that would be much better placed on the market. So there is also such a significant difference. And then I want to say, In that longer speech I have just spoken about the future deficit in environmental compensation, and there is a lot of talk here about protection zone grass, which someone is also talking about, but these are farmers' choices, which have then been made according to the agricultural aid scheme, and that is what we must now work on next spring to ensure that the aid is available for the year 20 in so far as the measures that farmers have been given the opportunity to choose during this programming period are concerned.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u94	Madam President! As far as hay is concerned, whatever name it is, nonsense or anything else, this is the way the farmer chooses, but we must not forget again that this is an environmental issue. This has been created in the EU so — this is the act of greening, the second pillar — that we have environmental protection elements in our support system. Now all we have to do is make sure we're not blind. We can criticise what the previous government and a government official there estimated the costs to be when the power gutters were included in this, what it means and how much national funding we went in that direction. It was an incomprehensible miscalculation, which we have not had a public debate on — we have certainly had this debate here in Parliament with control and respect for each other — but it must be borne in mind that there is also a need for us to consider that we are also greening this sector of ours. This wasn't a real project. It wasn't a successful project. Age targeting between young and older farmers is not necessarily that kind of thing. We have not been targeted in this crisis model either, as Mrs Viljanen said, given that we want to support those who have made investments, and I think Mrs Hakanen has said so. We have not and the government has not targeted it here. They are targeted, but it is not intended in a straightforward way to provide greater support for young farmers. You have to have the courage to look the truth in the eye. This is exactly the right method to respond to this distress, but I would have liked to have had the courage of the government, because the left would certainly have been in favour of taking this a little further in the case of young farmers and farmers who have invested.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u95	Madam President! To Mr Haraka, in my own speech, I spoke about the role of trade and industry, which we want to transfer the pot to farmers, to primary producers, so that they will receive compensation for their costs and, in addition, a fair income for the work they have done. So I wasn't just talking about trade, I was talking about industry. Congressman Harakka spoke about the investigation. Research is fine in itself, but it's pretty old. It ended in 2016, and since then it has been these two years, and since then the situation has worsened. [TimoHaraka’s interlude] What, then, did the government do during the last term on the proposal of Minister of Finance Urplainen? VAT on food was raised from 13 to 14 per cent. I remember well when, in 2008, after a hard battle here, we got the Old Government to drop VAT on food from 17% to 12. You raised it so that farmers have been deprived of a certain part of their contribution by the Social Democratic Minister of Finance in his proposal, by a parliamentary decision. Mr President! Then I would also like to say to Mr Ala-Nissilä, who has probably left, that I defended agriculture and Finland in the government at the time of the 1990s. As a reward, the city center threw me out of the government. Well, this is what happened, and that's good. Mr Ala-Nissilä also expressed hope for the work of Mr Karhinen's working group, but I regret to say, when we are in mid-January, that this period will end and that there will be no sign of Karh. Which means there are no results that would be passed. They remain the responsibility of the next government, and I am not quite sure that the next government will be the one that consumers would take to agriculture. It may be the opposite, but I hope I'm wrong. Representative to Ala-Nissilä
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u98	Mr President! I appealed to the latest research and the latest information. Fact analysis always takes time, you can always create images from the hip. The fact is, however, that competition in food trade has decreased prices and reduced trade margins. It is also true that food trade is too concentrated in Finland, but the more welcome it has been and more visible it has been in trade margins. There's no way out of it. But when the industry's share of this is to be reduced, it can then hit the producers a little as in the circular way, because a rather significant share of the food industry is producers' cooperatives or the listed companies controlled by producers. And the fact that Raisio, Atria and HK-Scan are all stock market crisis companies is mainly about how badly they have run their own business. However, Finns eat domestic food and buy the more cheap it is. And it is unfortunate that Finnish brands, as Mr Hakanen rightly pointed out here, will not succeed better against their own products. But then I could say that if I were a shareholder of Raisio, Atria or HK-Scan, I would ask some tough questions to the company management about how you would improve your competitive position. However, consumer support for domestic food and domestic food production is indisputable.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u99	Mr President! Indeed, the representative Harakka brought up the most recent study of the distribution of the food chain and the margin of trade on the price of food. However, it is legitimate to ask whether, in the case of a sector as dynamic as trade, the research material collected from 2012 to 2016 is entirely correct and complete for drawing today's conclusion. It is probably the latest, as Mr Harakka said, but one might also think that the restriction may be appropriate, as major changes have taken place in the food market from 2017 to 2018. [TimoHaraka’s interlude] In this respect, I do not deny that, in the light of this study, if the price of food has been reduced, then would it not be in the interests of consumers? Of course, if food has been depreciated, consumers have benefited from this. But what I called for in my previous speech was that I want a fair distribution of income into the food chain, so that every part of the chain, such as the farmer, the industry, the processor, as well as the logistics companies that operate in the chain, can get the right fair share of their production and activities to develop, be able to meet their obligations and also be able to invest in the future. According to research, Finnish consumers want to eat the cleanest and safest Finnish food in the world. We must do all that is possible in the future. And at the moment it seems that the distribution of income in the food chain is not working.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u100	Mr President! I am sure you will allow me to focus on this proposal, and I do not speak as widely as I seem to be speaking here at the moment. It is a good thing that the State guarantee instrument is being taken into greater use in this situation, where we are now in terms of weather conditions and the overall economic situation in agriculture. It's a pretty strict set of conditions, isn't it? There must be the conditions for continued profitable activity, and these financial problems must be temporary, and otherwise it would make no sense other than for the banks. But these are the conditions for which this state guarantee aid is reasonable and necessary for the farmer. After all, the banks are now quite sceptical, they have always been sceptical, and especially when the knowledge of agriculture, including in rural banks, is becoming increasingly scarce, it is easy to ask for additional collateral, and when securities are often valued in a particularly moderate manner at market prices today, it is important that, in exceptional circumstances such as the conditions for such continued profitable activities, a state guarantee can be obtained.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u101	Mr President! I was already prepared to come to the toilet to talk, but Mr Kiviranta returned to Mrs Myllykoski's topic. I must say that if I am in favour of this government proposal, then this is precisely the one but-side: when, for these young producers and businesses, there is a debt burden and, for many years, only negative results, this should not be targeted at them at all, but there should be profitable business, as this government has suggested. And here is the contradiction to which we need a solution in this whole reform. This is a momentary breather, and it is justifiable what the government has done: we are saving entrepreneurs who have been in debt since the end of these years, who are also young people. But what was heard above is precisely the problem: that profitability is not what it should be at the moment. In my opinion, Mr Harakka has very well pointed out how we should proceed at this stage and make some reforms. Here Mrs Viljanen has already left, but I have to say that we really have to leave on the basis of the fact that we are making it possible for this important aspect of our security of supply, namely self-sufficient food production in this country, and that is where we need different methods. And now is the moment, no matter what form the government takes in the next parliamentary term, when this issue must be resolved in the long term. And this is something that needs to be addressed with devotion. We have to have the courage to say... We are certainly not going to get red mud now, but in some way we must, from the point of view of both employees and food producers, who bring us its security of supply in this country, find that common line of action for the next government programme, whether we are in one government or not.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u102	Mr President! I only have one sentence this time. If trade, industry and primary production were proportionate to profitability, the situation of farmers and producers would not be in such a downward spiral.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u103	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u104	Mr President! This is a proposal from the Government for a law on the cultural activities of municipalities. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Citizens' Rights produced a report which was largely very supportive and good, but already at first reading we, the representatives of the Committee on Education, Education and the Media, Savio and I, tabled two proposals for statements in accordance with the protest, which are worded as follows: ‘The Commission requires that the necessary government measures to reverse the indexation of State co-financing,in some cases,are directed towards the cultural activities of the municipalities. “ Second:‘The Commission requires the government to focus on “ In other words, these two statements, and I hope that they will receive broad support and pass through.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u105	Mr President! There was a rather broad and long debate on this subject at the first reading of the draft law, and I am not going to repeat much of what I said at the time, but I would nevertheless say that the Finns of Peru want to emphasise the value and importance of Finnish culture and cultural heritage and also the importance of preserving them. As we pointed out in our alternative budget here in the autumn, the activities of local museums are also very important for the preservation of our cultural heritage, for example, so that posterity will be able to learn more about our glorious history and see it in practice. I support the proposals made by Mrs Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u106	Mr President! This was indeed the subject of a long debate at first reading, and it was good that the importance of culture, as a whole, was emphasised here as well, not only as an absolute value but also as an important factor, for example, in terms of employment and the vitality of the regions. Similarly, it has a great deal to do with people’s mental well-being, and generally there are health effects on culture and the well-being it brings. So it is important that we here are aware of all the opportunities that culture and art can give us today. They must also be seen as a source of vitality, and I would like to see a desire to invest in them everywhere. In this context, as we discussed it, another law came up, which is then a state-owned system for the distribution of theatres, orchestras and museums. This reform is timely in itself, but the problem is that there is not enough funding for it. I have already stressed at the previous reading that the amount that this would require, and in general the additional amount that would be required to support culture and art, is very small in scale from the point of view of the national economy as a whole, compared with the benefit that we could gain from all of this. That is why, on several occasions, I have expressed the hope that we can now, jointly in this Parliament, between the various parliamentary groups, regardless of the colour of the government in the next term, commit ourselves to the necessary funding for the VOS reform and to moving towards it gradually. With a wish for approximately 1% of the resources of the state finances to be allocated to art and culture, it would not be bad at all if we could achieve such a common vision. The SDP supports these principles and we also have our programme on these issues. President! The fact that it is a good thing that the Finns have made ponies, for example, in order to reverse the VOS system's index cuts, also emerged. Good. We agree. We also have this funding in our alternative budget, not only for cancellation, but also for the additional funding of state aids, precisely because this reform must be carried out. We have that money in our alternative budget. To our surprise, we found that the Finns of Peru do not have this money in their shadow budget. It is a little worse, but in practice, because these efforts, which the Finns are saying, are the same things that we also support, our parliamentary group will support them in the vote. But now, President, I would like to emphasise once again that I hope that the significance of culture and art from many directions will be seen in this house now and in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u107	Mr President! It is good to continue with the excellent speech by Mr Viitane. This law strengthens the role of culture as a basic service and hopefully supports the fact that municipalities and the state, which means that we will be able to work together to promote a diverse cultural life throughout the country. It would also be important if the regional reform were to take place, that some natural role should be found in the regions in implementing their own cultural responsibility, for example through the percentage principle mentioned by Mrs Viitanen. This could also have good welfare effects when we look at them together with social and health services. The importance of art and culture in society is indisputable. The welfare effects of art and culture are widely recognised, and art and culture not only bring their authors but also people who enjoy them a variety of joys and benefits to life. Above all, art also helps us to mirror our time and phenomena and expand our thinking in new directions, and this is certainly necessary for everyone in different ways, however each wants to carry it out. This law also emphasises the accessibility of culture for all. It is important that culture is accessible to people of different ages, people living in different places and people interested in different things. It has been great to see how, for example, new forms of culture have recently spread widely and have received new users, and how many so-called old forms of culture, such as the circus, have been developed in a whole new direction in recent years. I'm sure there are some examples. Art is also constantly being renewed. At the same time, it is worth noting that hobby and professionalism do not contradict each other in any way, but support each other, and it would be good to keep both sides in mind in financial terms. Mr Viitanen mentioned the state aid reform, which has now been reinstated in preparation. It would be important for the reform to proceed. The message from the field is strongly that state aid reform is needed, but it should be organised in such a way that at the same time it supports new and emerging and diverse forms of culture, which we may not even be able to define yet, and also treat fairly the cultural production that has been carried out in Finland for a long time, as a good example, for example, many theatres. It would therefore be important for the next government to take swift steps in this regard. And a few words about the principle of public art and culture as a percentage. It is good that the debate on the principle of percentages has expanded from mere art procurement to the fact that the principle of percentages can also include events or various cultural activities or many more. It would be important for us to ensure that the principle of percentage is taken into account as widely as possible in all Finnish municipalities and future regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u108	Mr President! The representatives Elomaa and Savio have made very important and good statements that are worthy of support. 2.the phrase referred to in the statement ‘the impact of savings decisions on local research and culture is assessed as ‘onerous’. The Finns of Peru are particularly emphasizing this home-oriented culture close to the people and its maintenance and development. As far as the cancellation of index freezing is concerned, this is the way it is going here, Mr Viitanen, that in this House wishes statements are being presented to the Government in these contexts, as has been done here to cancel index freezings insofar as they concern the cultural activities of municipalities. And then, if this is approved, the government will submit a proposal to Parliament, and then, if it is approved, the government will give an additional budget, which, depending on the date of entry into force, will allocate the money for the purpose. That's how it's gonna be. I would like to say here, with all my friendship, that Mr Rinne promised under EUR 1,400 at the last May to pensioners receiving pensions EUR 100 in a clean hand in a month. It costs almost a billion dollars. There was no such amount in your alternative budget. There were 100 million to make a small adjustment to these pensions. [TimoHaraka’s interlude] But, as I said, this has nothing to do with this, but, Mr President, it has to do with: during the last parliamentary term of 2011-2015, the central government shares of municipalities were treated so harshly that the municipalities were in debt from 10 billion to 17 billion. Almost all municipalities raised their income tax rate and property tax rate and reduced their spending, and nearly everywhere culture was the number one issue in the qualifying process. It was the result of your government's economic policy that culture suffered.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u109	Mr President! It is quite extraordinary that Mr Kankaanniemi said that this had nothing to do with the matter in hand, but then he misjudges the President-in-Office of the hospital, who is unable to answer these allegations himself. This is the second time today that Mr Kankaanniemi's claims have to be corrected. But this is beyond doubt. I read directly here in the speech text: ‘I promise EUR100in the net month of severalyears with a programme ofmore than EUR1400for pensions. “ Could Mr Kankaanniemi, his party and, hopefully, other parties on the other side of the Chamber be committed to sticking to the truth in this matter and not spreading such distorted information?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u110	Mr President! Mr Harakka has just corrected what Mr Kankaanniemi said. I think it would be fair for a commitment to be made here that the truth should not be used so sparingly as Mr Kankaanniemi in his speeches. As far as this pension promise is concerned: I think it is necessary and good, and I am somewhat surprised and surprised that when we speak on behalf of low-income pensioners, we want to give them more opportunities to make a living, our alternative budget — Mrs Harakka knows and hopefully Kankaanniemi will continue to — will include the next step here, it will include an increase in pensions, it will have the resources available here. I would like to see some value given to it and not regarded it as populism in the defence of low-income pensioners. At Tammelantori, I hear from the pensioners themselves that there is a great deal of money to be spent on this day, when the government has been there quite crushingly. It is amazing that this is called populism and, on the contrary, does not go to the same front to do something for pensioners. And as far as this alternative budget is concerned, President: The issue we are talking about here is the state of culture, and the Finns of Peru make a good statement in themselves that the indices will be cancelled, but at the same time, we have funding in our alternative budget for this proposal — and so does the pension promise. There is no funding in your alternative budget for this correction of the index freeze of central government shares, which is exactly what you are proposing here. Let's just say that now, because it's a fact. But, President-in-Office, what I really wanted to do was to speak on behalf of Mr Olli-Son Parviainen' s excellent speech, which then went into more detail on what we can do. I too thought it was important when you stressed that culture should be accessible to all. That is why I think it is very important, Mr President, that we should be able, both here at national level and then in the municipalities, to reflect on the ways in which cultural provision can be brought close to a person, for example, to a residential area, more than today, how we can promote the fact that, while culture is a joy for children in kindergartens and goes hand in hand with culture and children who are then more creative and have great conditions for living, how, for example, we can bring more culture to the services of the elderly — all of this. It is a great thing, and there are many of these ideas, there are many forms of action, and they should be more systematically taken forward and developed. President! I say this once again when reference was made to the previous government intervention in the previous speech by Kankaanniemi that I am perhaps a little modest to say that at the moment when I was given the honour of being Minister of Culture for a moment,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u111	Mr President! I am sure Mr President will not allow this debate on pensions to go further than that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u116	Mr President! Somehow I think that, for example, the debate on culture and art should be forward-looking, positive, enthusiastic, and I am slightly sorry that once again this debate has been taken to this department by Mrs Kankaanniemi, where only her accusations and quarrels are held. I find it very unfortunate, [Call for the Cape]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u117	Mr President! It was, of course, to be expected that the representative in Kankaanieme would not be a man to regret the false witness he gave, but he considered it appropriate to continue scoffing. Let everyone now draw their own conclusions. The fact is, if you are interested, that in two alternative budgets the Social Democrats have already proposed a total increase of EUR 60 for these low-income pensioners from the EUR 100 promised. As a result, 55,000 pensioners rise above the poverty line, which, of course, annoys Sipilä’s former partner in government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u118	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 11 January 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u119	Mr President! The Friday session held a very fruitful debate on the Incomes Register and the need for immediate social security reform, for which the almost real-time income information system is a key tool. I would therefore like to thank everyone for their constructive contributions from all sides of the Chamber. A cynic would say that when the media’s attention was not present in this hall during the weekend, it was possible to work together and even to encourage one another to seek common goals and goals. The elections are, of course, approaching and the confrontation is intensifying, but there are also issues on which there is broad consensus. As Mr Kontula said in his excellent new book Parliament — Friends and enemies, which I recommend everyone to read, in fact, a very large proportion of government proposals are dealt with and, if necessary, improved by consensus without disagreement. The Incomes Register clarifies and simplifies the procedures of the employer and the authority in the first instance, but the longer tendon serves the citizen, was an entrepreneur, employee or beneficiary, and especially in a situation where he moves from one income station to another. This would allow social security to move along without interruption without any delays or fines and to contribute to encouraging people from unemployment to work or work to entrepreneurship or to increase their skills. The Incomes Register is also a central part of the SDP's social security reform model, which Matias Mäkynen from Vaasa has prepared for the party. The amount of the benefit depends on the degree of activity and is registered in real time, so that even a small period of work or training support comes to the immediate hand and benefit of the recipient and thus the incentive effect is immediate and substantial. Similarly, the income information system is needed for another reform proposed by the SDP, i.e. for low-paid labour income support. We have a lot of part-time, fixed-term, seasonal work, of which annual income is less than EUR 15,000, i.e. below the state tax limit, even full-time low-paid jobs, such as the valuable work of a metro cleaner. The incentive to move from unemployment to low incomes is now poor because benefits can be lost. In the case of income support, benefits will remain, but taxation may even be negative, meaning that more remains in hand than is the nominal wage. This will require real-time income data, which will make it possible to refund the advance tax every month instead of withholding the advance tax. At that time, the incentive will have an immediate effect and immediately a tangible increase in income and purchasing power. President! All in this Chamber aim at raising the employment rate to at least 75%. Each has its own means to achieve this common goal, either more or less prepared models, and the smooth registration of income data, combined with the opportunities provided by artificial intelligence, will ensure that more and more Finns are genuinely given access to the data.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u120	Mr President! This is a well-founded, good proposal, and it is good that it is now moving forward once again. That, by the way, was the case today, a moment ago with Mr Hassi, among others, at the ARA days in the Housing Policy Panel, and that was also where this came from the point of view of the need to develop housing support. Surely such mechanisms are good for the future, so that we can develop the whole social security system and the various support schemes in such a way that this kind of incentive will then take up work and all this will work better today. So this is also linked to today's theme in relation to this. This theme was also opened up by Mrs Harakka in her previous speech when she spoke about, among other things, the option of the SDP. I think it is important to see that now that this whole social security system will be reformed in the future, as well as taxation, this will provide an easier opportunity to achieve the goal that we ourselves, for example, are pursuing with this idea of income support and negative income tax. So in this respect, President, it is good to have a consensus to take these reforms forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u121	Mr President! This proposal should be fully commended to the government and to the Committee on Finance, which has dealt with it and unanimously managed to take it forward. Let's get this out of the procedure and get it out of the way. It is very good from the point of view of the state and many others and factors. There were some good points which I shall not go into any further, but I would say that the reform of social security and tax reform – especially in the event of taxation, in the event of regional reform – are ahead of us, and then this is indeed a good tool for taking these major reforms forward in a sensible way. Mr President! There's one thing I'm worried about right now. Yesterday, a small entrepreneur told us that this will increase the workload of small businesses, small employers in a way that is relatively proportional to their activities and results. In that sense it might be quite appropriate that, although there has always been a heavy criticism of entrepreneurship reduction and anti-entrepreneurship in this respect, the government should now examine whether it is possible, for example, to increase the entrepreneurship reduction of small enterprises on the grounds that this income information system imposes additional costs on them through account offices and on their own work. It would be a welcome for those entrepreneurs who are again, as it were, faced with additional red tape. After all, the government has acted according to its programme in the field of bureaucracy, so that it is being reduced and reduced, but here comes a little more, and this concern is justifiable. But all in all, the benefits are so much greater that it is a pleasure to take this forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u122	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u123	Mr President! Indeed, it is a rare pleasure to give the government an unreserved thank you for this bill, which comes to a need that benefits performing artists and promotes a creative economy. As I said at first reading, the possibility of VAT liability has been a great desire of performing artists and programme agencies. When musicians and other performers incur the necessary costs of means of earning income — the purchase of musical instruments and the maintenance of a tour bus — they must be able to deduct from the income. And when the tax rate is consistently 10%, as in the case of culture in general, it can be assumed that artists' livelihoods will improve and that the creative economy in general can succeed. The old Kummmel sketch always ended up in a situation where an artist pays. Now a step has been taken to ensure that the artist does not pay, at least everything, or if the artist pays, he gets the part back. The revenue formation of performing artists has been hard hit by digitalisation. Revenue from the sale of audio recordings has collapsed. Even at the beginning of the 21st century, the value of phonogram sales was EUR 65 million a year, but only 35 million a couple of years ago — the amount is almost halved. CMX’s merited figurehead, A. W. As a George, it has even been estimated that the earnings of visible artists are only 20 per cent of what ten years earlier. You have to do a job all the time if you want to shorten your mortgage. The performance itself is therefore a more necessary part of the artist’s livelihood and, on the other hand, as living culture, i.e. public events, are becoming more and more popular in cities, it is a pleasure to support experiences and opportunities of association in this way too. In addition to the adoption of good laws, we decision-makers have a small obligation to participate in cultural events. Well, then who would be the audience if I wasn't me, so I'm gonna try to maintain at least weekly cultural fitness. It is also important that it is entirely voluntary to apply for VAT. There are very many performers, and not all activities are sufficiently extensive or income-intensive to require VAT liability. On the other hand, many artists' own identity is that they do not even want to think of their own business as a sort of business, so there must be full freedom not to engage in entrepreneurial activities if they do not like their own world view. In this context, it should also be borne in mind that the presentation also clarifies the accounting, the correct reporting of the income of the performer and the timely management of taxes and duties. I hope the artist's myth can be forgotten. Irwin Goodman would have been a better and longer-lived artist if he hadn't been forced to auction his Ryyranta. Finland’s largest creative cooperative Kikke Heikkinen, who has been running Lilith for a long time, has thanked the bill for making it easier for the different types of income and expenses to be treated in a uniform way in the accounts and also provides protection for the artist. Mr President! In this context, however, I would like to challenge the government, or perhaps rather the next government, to take the next steps to promote creative work and the creative economy: more intensive support should be given to artists who want to do their work professionally and not only to earn a living but also to achieve wider, perhaps global, visibility and, at least, to enable it to be scaled up for business competence. In this case, the artist is no longer an artisan but must be able to make the best use of the resources of cultural exports, the transport of licence and royalty income, intellectual property rights, the IPR. In recent years, agencies, brokering organisations have emerged in the book industry, which gather, produce and market production windows to the world. In many other areas, the authors alone have to sell their products. This productization cooperation should be supported in all areas so that artistic work is targeted at product development. The business of creative industries can be multiplied as long as the right business intentions are found, the creators and product makers are brought together and the value of copyright is learned. Here's a program for the next government's Minister of Culture. At the same time, it must be remembered that art is important for the sake of art and many artists want to quit production machinery and business mentality. In fact, they are often the creators and pioneers of a new one, which is why a purely basic income support and scholarship system are essential. All mainstream culture is originally subculture, and a creative economy is only possible when there is creative thinking without economic thinking.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u124	Mr President! I think that this insight that an artist pays but also gets back sums up quite well this performance, which is good, and in this respect I too would like to express my thanks for the fact that the government sometimes brings very good tax proposals, if you can say so, so we know that this has been a long-awaited proposal, and it is good that we have it here today. It is also good, of course, that, since the field of performing artists is very wide and diverse — in addition to music, there is an actor, a host, an athlete, no matter what this law may affect — this is an opportunity for you to see, at your discretion, whether you want to become a taxable person or not, and certainly this form in itself is the right and effective overall. This creative economy is important — that is what we have already mentioned in the previous paragraph when we talked about the cultural activities of the municipalities — and I also think, to a large extent, that one of the resources of the future may be to give more to the creative economy and to consider how we can get more work, more jobs and also more international cultural exports. And from that point of view, of course, it is important that we should move in the direction of more systematic search for these forms of cooperation that would help artists in different fields to produce, market their own expertise and export it abroad, as Mr Harakka has just described very well a certain kind of product cooperation and its necessity, and I would see that it is a big thing where we can win a lot when we are programmed to achieve this overall. As far as this bill is concerned, I have often thought that when we talk about a creative economy or cultural policy, for example, in the same way that we need cultural and artistic policy, we also need artistic policy from the point of view that the creator, the artist, the producer of culture, also needs his salary. He needs money to live, and that is why it is important that we can develop these forms both fiscally and generally, for example, on copyright issues, in such a way that the creator also has the capacity to do his own important and valuable work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u125	Mr President! This good proposal before us deserves to be adopted now, and it should be noted that Mr Elomaa, who is now absent from his seat, has been pushing this issue very hard for years. Of course, his former life has provided a good basis for it, and he personally knows well the situation where the creative artists in this country are. He has done so in many ways, and the government programme was mentioned by us, Elomaa and others, and it is now a pleasure to say that the proposal is at last at this stage. This is a good procedure. It is important that freedom of choice is within this. This will increase justice to those who work, demanding work for the benefit of society and the people with their gifts. Nor can it be underestimated that export opportunities in this sector are also such as to make every effort to promote their exploitation, and I believe that this change in the law on VAT, the possibility of choice, the promotion of exports of Finnish creative art, and that is important, especially during this time, and the opportunities are good.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u126	Mr President! First of all, it is easy to join in on this point in thanking the government's proposal. And, as Mr Harakka said, the logic of income formation has changed to such an extent that we should look at these major structural issues, such as taxation, at all times, in the creative sectors in general, and perhaps especially in the performing artists. I asked for the floor in particular to raise the future challenges mentioned by Mr Haraka and Mr Viitanen. In the Committee on the Future, we recently heard views from the cultural side of the Ministry of Education and Culture on what is going on in the reflection on the growth agenda for the cultural sectors and the creative economy and as part of Business Finland. After all, it became Anne Brunila's performance. It sounded as if things were not moving very well now. I therefore believe that Mr Haraka's challenge to the future Minister for Culture concerns both the Minister for Culture and the Minister for Economic Affairs. It's good at this point to recognize. If we are really going to get to grips with this global cultural export, the related productization and the world of scalable competition, it will not be possible without a systematic and smartly thought-out strategic programme that fits well under Business Finland. And this is a good thing to recognize that there are two things at stake. On the other hand, it may be about the opportunities and aspirations of individual artists, but it is also about our horizontal recognition of the creators of creative industries as part of a wide range of other sectors, i.e. as creators and perceptors of productisation, design and design, which may not have been one of Finland's greatest strengths in many of the areas with much growth potential that will be worth looking at in the future. So, hopefully, after this legislation, efforts will be directed specifically towards growth programmes in the creative sectors. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u127	Mr President! It is true that this is part of the government's exceptionally good tax bill proposals, which have come in a great deal during this period. I said so much at first reading that I do not know what else to say about this. It is absolutely excellent that this right to apply for VAT is granted to performing artists, athletes, programme agencies. Preventing tax repetition is a noble objective which VAT must promote by all means. A little about Mr Kankaanniemi's speech: Let us now say that Mr Elomaa felt a little pity because he was not in the government party when this important and dear presentation was given to him. But the most important thing is that it has now been given.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u128	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u129	Mr President! This change in the tissue law, which is now at second reading, is indeed a long, long-awaited change, not only for many patients and their families, their loved ones, but also in terms of health care providers, many working and learning communities and also in terms of society's resources. Thus, this change enables the donation of a kidney from living donors not only to close relatives and those living in the same household but also to relatives or acquaintances who are a little more distant, or even a good friend. If we think that patients now have to spend a huge amount of hours per week on dialysis, to be in treatment three times, even more times a week, then we realize that it is not possible to live a normal life, not study or work life, and many people have a livelihood and the family and community to endure. And now that we think that when a patient receives a kidney transplant, it literally brings life, enables normal life, restores work and study opportunities, but it also saves a huge amount of society's euros. If we think that, at the moment, kidney transplants have been made since 1964, we have already saved more than EUR 1 billion of society's money, and if we think that perhaps the average person can work for 20 years, 25 years — the longest one has now worked for 49 years — then, on average, such a kidney transplant saves at least EUR 1 million of society's money. It has been about three years since I ran after you in the spring of 2016 when I made this a bill. Thank you again to all the 116 Members of Parliament who signed this, but a great deal of work has been done since then because it seemed that the motion was drowning in the feet of the swamps in the Ministry and then in the feet of the wars in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, but now this is finally here. This bill, which we signed at the time and which you signed, is included in this government proposal and, in addition, the government has introduced some clarifications. In that way, as has been said, this is a very long, long-awaited one, and I know that not only patients but also their families, their families, their families, the working and study community and health care providers, as well as patient organisations, have really been looking forward to this. For my part, I would also like to extend warm thanks to all of you and to the government and our partners. It's really great that this is happening now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u130	Mr President! I took the floor precisely because I would like to thank Mr Tanus for actually collecting our names for this initiative, which is now in line with the government's proposal. As Vice-President of the diabetes group, I fully agree that we need to change our practices so that we can save on these social costs, and this human pain, which the representative has expressed in a very recent speech, is very important for us to understand. Finally and finally, there is a presentation in this Chamber that can be thanked or once again said — after all, we have had other government proposals that can be commended, there have been more of them in today’s time, but this is something that may have surprised me when the names were collected, that is not possible today. And now we have a proposal to go to committee, and I hope it will make this possible in practice, and that is very important. I am very much in favour of it myself, and I am closely following the situation of many people in which it has been, just as the representative described it, very inhumane. Dialysis treatments take all the energy and energy from that life, and it really does not work, study, or anything else. It is precisely such initiatives and actions that we need to make life easier for the ordinary person and prevent suffering and, on the other hand, to cure disease, and this is one way in which it is a multifaceted, comprehensive whole. I hope that this will also become a reality as soon as possible, so without further ado, I am very much in favour of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u131	Mr President! There is also a government proposal here at the same time as this bill, and I drew attention to the fact that this government proposal did not take a position on organ transplantation. Of course, in other legislation there is a way in which these bodies can be arranged for people in a way that should be done voluntarily and in all other ways, but I am concerned that Finnish legislation does not directly deny, for example, that we are going to go to China for a new body. After all, we had this on the international media in November, and Helsingin Sanomat wrote that, according to reports, hundreds of thousands of prisoners of conscience in China, for example, would have lost their lives because of the transfer of these organs from people for money. And in the past it has been said that they have been taken, for example, from sentenced prisoners and persons who died in accidents rather than from various persons. But this noise has also been hard on the part of Parliament, we ourselves have received mail from various organisations over the years that why there is no single position in the European Union as to whether, for example, a European can travel to Asia and get himself a new liver or a new heart in a few hours or days by giving money. After all, there is a legal project going on in Australia, as I recall, or was it in Canada that individuals should be banned from travelling to countries for a transplant unless it has been ensured that the body has been taken from someone who voluntarily donated it. On the other hand, this government proposal is now moving forward in other respects. It is just mentioned on page 15 of this Convention within the framework of the Council of Europe, which defines the fight against organ trafficking in some way in such a way that it is not lawful to engage in organ detachments and in these matters. But in this respect, I have been waiting and I ask the government to bring to this House some time to debate the extent to which Finnish citizens are aware of these things, what they are allowed to do abroad and what they are not. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u132	Mr President! I'd like a representative. With regard to his speech, Mr Niko will reply that there has not only been a great deal of discussion on these issues among health professionals, but there is also a kidney, liver and organ transplant group in Parliament, which I chair. There was also a debate in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and today there was also an information conference in the Citizens' Information Centre on this bill, and it also covered this organ donation situation in the world. It should be said that this bill, which you signed 116, is included in this government proposal, but the government made some clarifications specifically regarding the donor and donor investigations and also regarding the kidney disease register. That is why this as a government proposal is a little broader. But just as today Professor Helena Isoniemi and Docent — now the name suddenly goes out of the mind, but HUS’s two actors — Ilkka Helantä, who are from HUS, specifically the kidney transplant unit, and who have made these transplants over the years, stated when the media asked about these donations and their legality and investigation and registration, and so on, and so on, in Finland, all the steps, which are many, are carefully registered. Firstly, donors will be examined very carefully, interviewed by a number of separate actors, a professional, and all will be registered. In the end, what is in Finland is going to Valvira, which, as a supervising authority, is ultimately responsible for Finland's activities, as Helena Isoniemi said, seven different documents. And then, of course, if people leave Finland to live, then everything that happens there is impossible for us here in Finland to keep in our own, I would say, straps, but it is said that in order for a transplant patient, including a patient who has a kidney, to be able to cope well, it is very important that the transplant is suitable, that there are no counter-reactions, that it really works as it should. It is very difficult to think that in Finland, where health care is at such a high level, Finland, where treatment is also available in this area, when only a suitable donor can be found in Finland, would go to the world for a transplant. Especially since this amendment of the law makes it possible for us to have more kidney donors, I believe that these lines too,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u133	Mr President! I too have already praised this law so much at first reading that I did not intend to speak. All I am saying is that I am grateful for the many patients who are waiting for a kidney transplant, who are now able to have a new kidney. However, with regard to this organ trade, I would like to say that in Finland, transplants are certainly done ethically correctly, and I do not believe that there are any abuses in Finland. After all, kidney donation must always be voluntary, under all circumstances completely voluntary without pressure or coercion. But this international situation is worrying, and it has been mentioned in particular that people have been unauthorized to take organs in China, and that is a very repugnant and unpleasant phenomenon. Yes, I hope that Finland will be very active in all these international debates and in all the international arenas in order to make this disgusting organ trade totally banned and completely stop in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u134	Mr President! Representative Niikko drew attention to an important issue. I myself was in the European Parliament at the time negotiating the EU directive on transplantation, and it just sought a balance that ensures that organ transplants taken from living people are taken from volunteers only and that there is no trade whatsoever, let alone kidnapping and even killing people for transplant organs. I believe in what colleagues have already said that we can be sure that transplants in Finland will also take place correctly as to how these organs have been acquired. I do not believe that there are a large number of people — I do not know whether there is anyone from Finland or Finland — who go to China to obtain a transplant, but I do think it would be a matter of consideration if, for the sake of clarity and political signal, we were to ban it and make it a crime separately, if we were to travel to China because of a transplant, as has happened in some countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u135	Mr President! Of course, Mr. Tanus, we are talking here about kidney transplants and difficulties in getting enough donated kidneys for Finnish patients, but then, on a broader scale, when we look at this issue internationally, this is a big problem and also the business of human smugglers. No matter which way the world is looked at, the organs are sold differently. It is well known that many sell kidneys for the price of a mobile device to get a mobile phone, and this happens very much in poor third countries. As regards this procurement of organs from Asia, such as Taiwan, Israel, Spain, Italy and Norway have recently banned international transplants in China, and this ban has not yet been applied in Finland. In this regard, we should also be monitoring the common legislative space in Europe and in the West in this House in what way we should deal with these illegal organ transplants. Now, as far as China is concerned, this kind of independent court has begun its work at the end of last year, and we are waiting at the beginning of this year to see if that information is correct — Of course, China itself has denied that such action would take place, at least on a state-led basis. But there is the concern that our President of the Republic, Niinistö, during his visit to China, raised with Chinese President Xi Jinping, that the Uighur situation is worrying in China, and at the same time it has been known that blood and DNA samples have been taken from Uighur prisoners in the province of Xinjiang as well as from those who practise the Falun Gong religion. They have also been visited here in Parliament from time to time, even in front of the Parliament House, to express their opinion as to why these matters are not dared to be raised in Finland. We have a good relationship with China, and we want to have a good relationship with China. We have good commercial relations, and friendships are getting better and better, but that does not mean that we do not also put these human rights issues on the table at the same time. We must be consistent in that if there is evidence that people's lives can be traded in such a way that you can travel here, if you need to, simply pay money to get a new body that saves your own life, then there must be legislation that prevents you from going to Finland to receive transplants from people whose lives go at its expense.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u136	Mr President! Indeed, the kidney transplant system, the donation of the kidney, must be based only on a voluntary basis — only and only on a voluntary basis — and must not involve any kind of pressure or financial ties. In my previous speech, I mentioned Professor Helena Isoniemi and Docent Ilkka Helanterä. We were just discussing in the day how in Finland, if someone is thinking about extradition, we will discuss the matter several times with this donor, and if at some point there is any doubt that there is some kind of pressure involved, then at that point the matter will be dealt with in greater detail. But what is happening in the world is quite true, as Mr Niikko and Mr Hassi said earlier, that it is shocking how people’s bodies are traded. It is shocking that people are in a situation where perhaps, in a certain way, they will have to sell their organs for money. But what is even more shocking is that people are being exploited, pressured, and even killed for organs. And, as we have often spoken in this Chamber and also with transplant specialists, professionals, of course, Finnish and our decision-makers should also act forcefully in international arenas so that all this kind of activity can be reduced not only but also stopped. I would also like to point out here that when we discussed this matter in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, among other things: We heard the operators of HUS, and they also had a wish, which then came as a statement here in the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, specifically about this kind of global reform. In other words, we have a proposal from the committee to ‘require that the government initiates preparatory work for a comprehensive reform of the law on the medical use of human organs, tissues and cells’. In other words, it has been thought that it would be sensible to distinguish between, for example, what legislation is involved in organ transplantation and, on the one hand, in cellular activities, and, on the other hand, if this proposal is adopted in Parliament, that Parliament requires the government to take steps to obtain such an overall reform, this is of course one way of bringing this type of regulation and legislation into the law, so that such action, as in some countries, in the Nordic countries, is prohibited, should be taken in some ways to participate in this kind of criminal activity in the world. But as I said, in Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u137	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 17/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u138	Mr President! One can say that this is the moment I have been waiting for as a Member of Parliament for this first period for a few years, because when I was in my time as chairman of the City Council of Oulu, I thought that if the people gave the confidence that they would ever be elected, the change in the Housing Company Act is the thing I'm going to do with the bill. Act 105/2016 is a bill supported by more than 100 colleagues. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection took it on board a couple of years ago, and since then the Ministry of Justice has done a very strong preparatory work with this legislation, and now we are dealing with the unanimous report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection as a basis for Parliament's position. This is therefore an amendment to the Housing Company Act, which concerns the demolition of the building and the facilitation of new construction. The aim is to facilitate the decision-making of the housing company in the area of demolition and new construction, while safeguarding the housing of each shareholder, the value of the housing wealth and other rights generated by the housing share and the rights of collateral holders. What this housing company law still has for some time now is that if the building is in such a state that it is not financially viable to renovate or requires a larger renovation in order to get the accessibility issues in order or to partially dismantle or dismantle them, then the law says at the moment that a unanimous general meeting and the consent of each shareholder is required. And this consent of each shareholder has meant that unanimous general meetings are not enough and then the housing company may not have the consent of each shareholder — there are heirs, there are joint-ownership housing and so on. Now this law is based on the fact that four-fifths qualified majority could take these decisions on the housing company, and that there would then also be no need for unanimity and the consent of each shareholder, but it would be proposed that four-fifths qualified majority voting could decide. Then, of course, it is important that the property protection of everyone is maintained by some means. And yes, this law assumes that if a shareholder who opposes such winding-up or newbuilding reports it there at the general meeting and records it for information, he is proposed to be entitled to claim the redemption of his shares at fair prices within the time of the decision of the general meeting. There are other ways here, too, which then mean that everyone who has a partnership in this housing company will have a voice, and so no one will have to think that in the future the project will end up disappearing from the bottom of his home and have no substitute for it. The Justice Department has done some good preparatory work. The bill came out of the nine tenths of a qualified majority, and this proposal is now four fifths. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection we discussed it, and there are a number of things that we also added to the report, including these different practices in municipal land-use agreements. It would be important to make public the type of land-use agreements that exist, and it would also be possible to discuss them more generally. It may be that I will take another floor, but in this context I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, Satu Hassi, Vice-President Silvia Modig and colleagues from the whole Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, as well as, of course, over a hundred colleagues who, from the early part of the year, expressed their support for this. It is great that there has been cooperation here from the side of the hall to the side, and therefore real estate development and in-service construction will also be significantly promoted. In fact, we have tens of thousands of housing companies for which, over the next 10 to 20 years, this issue will be topical. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u139	Mr President! Mrs Talvitie has already presented the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, and although it is, in a way, standard practice for the chairman of the committee to present it, this is a well-founded order that this is largely based on Mrs Talvitie's legislative initiative. In the discussions in the committee, we said that this could be called Lex Talvitie. This is a unanimous report from the Committee on the Environment. We said that dismantling new construction is in itself limited but, in certain cases, very necessary to increase housing, especially in growing urban areas, particularly in the area of new rail transport projects, and it is appropriate to facilitate this in such a way as to no longer require a full consensus of shareholders, but four-fifths is enough, and two-thirds is enough when it comes to partial dismantling and new construction. The committee also notes that there may be cases in which a house, which is already just a residential building, is partly changed from its intended purpose to, for example, the construction of a new house in which commercial dwellings can be built. However, we do not support the possibility of a complete change of purpose. The committee also stresses the need for an independent expert's opinion before this procedure and that this expert must be independent of the sponsor company, its management and shareholders, but also of the project's sponsors and builders and designers. Mr President! The last point I would like to raise about the committee's report is that there is also concern about the impact of this legislative proposal on the protection of the built cultural environment. As such, this law does not change the laws governing the protection of the built cultural environment, but the impact of the law on this issue should be monitored.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u140	Mr President! This is a good law, and thank you to Mrs Talvitie for taking the matter forward. Indeed, in committee, as was evident from the speeches made by Talvitie and President Hassi, this was discussed unanimously. First of all, it must be remembered that housing is usually the most important asset item for people, and then when you start to deal with it, in some way the legal security and wealth of minority shareholders must be taken into account and taken into account. Here are the redemption clauses and they have the right to a fair compensation for what they own if they do not want to continue to be built. What has not yet been mentioned here — and I would, of course, like to make it clear as a member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy — is that there are actually two strong climate perspectives. The second is the condensation of the urban structure, i.e. that when you have larger units, you can accommodate more people and not spread out so widely. Another aspect, of course, is that when you compare an old building with a new building that is weak in energy efficiency, which is made with new regulations, then of course the new one is more energy efficient, saves energy, and it is an important one.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u141	Mr President! This government proposal is very good and congratulations to Mrs Talvitie on the bill that you have taken and which received such broad support here in the Chamber of Parliament as well. Now that this matter has progressed, this government proposal is good and the report by the Committee on the Environment is unanimous. The proposal for a legislative amendment to the demolition of new construction will make it possible to build more and more, especially in large growth centres, and it has become clear that the urban structure needs to be strengthened, particularly here in the capital region, and this current unanimity requirement in the Housing Company Act is too strict and has acted as a practical obstacle to the dismantling of new construction, with a few exceptions. In the case of large growth centres in particular, there is a need for in-fill and for urban building to be strengthened, and that is how we can move things forward. This government proposal will also enable larger entities, larger blocks, to be built. That's a good thing in itself. Demolition of new construction enables the development of new housing production and the use of areas compared to traditional renovations. As this government proposal moves forward, further construction can also improve accessibility and comfort by building e.g. lifts and modern sanitary facilities that might not necessarily be able to be built in renovated buildings. The fact is that modern building technology also requires more space for those ventilation pipes and electric pipes to be brought there. In houses and older buildings built in the 60s and 70s, there are not enough of them, and now it is also possible to produce new dwellings. All in all, this is a good proposal, and hopefully it will also be followed as to whether even better things can be carried forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u142	Mr President! To follow up on the previous speech, what kind of need is there for this type of heavy renovation option. Of course, it is primarily targeted at floor buildings in the 60s to 80s, as colleagues have also pointed out, but it was surprising to me, at least in connection with this government proposal, that when the share of renovation construction in building construction has increased continuously, the value of renovation construction has passed the construction of the building on a permanent basis in 2014. So they're talking about significant volumes. In addition to these land-use agreements, the Committee on the Environment drew attention to the fact that, in the context of the overall reform of this legislation on land-use and construction, which has been launched, it would be useful to consider these aspects as well as to assess the development needs of other types of companies as necessary, as well as those of this housing company law. For example, there may be a need for renovation of old shopping centre properties in the form of real estate companies. In other words, it may be an old shopping centre with the same requirement for unanimity, and the majority feel that this shopping centre could be dismantled or developed in the city centre — or even in a smaller locality — but then there will be no consensus. In the future, the Committee believes it would be worthwhile also to evaluate it for real estate companies,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u143	Mr President! I would just like to say briefly here that it is really great and encouraging for the rest of us, that such good presentations are important and that a representative of Parliament can put his bill in the form of a government proposal. This brings comfort to all of us, because unfortunately more than 90% of legislative initiatives end up somewhere on the shelf, and it is quite frustrating in terms of democracy and its realisation and the importance of this work. I have therefore sent greetings to the working group on the reform of the Council of Presidents that there is also one thing we should be developing here, within the house. That is why I want to say and value this. To the work of the Winter Road that a representative of Parliament can now bring this matter into the legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u144	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Talvitie. This is a great day for him and a great day for us representatives as well. This is another motion in this Chamber today, in which, in the way of a Member of Parliament, the basic work is rewarded as if it were. When there is the right thing and there is a clear need for it, it is also possible in this house for the government to take matters from the ranks of the opposition to prepare for itself. Of course, this is a representative of the government party, but I think that this is a valuable thing for this work. And now to this performance itself: This is a very important and important proposal. We have a need for repair in the capital region, I wonder if it was worth some 6 billion just for plumbing and electricity renewal. In many houses they have been done in such a way in the '60s that it would be really important to find out if such a renovation would be worth it. In the Souka area, where I myself live in this kind of apartment building built in 68 C.E., next to a three-storey apartment building, which is not terribly well maintained, and there is a situation that the balconies from there almost fall off, so that definitely it is worth dismantling. I think it should be demolished and built in a place like an eight-storey house, especially when it is about 50 meters from the metro station. This new law will facilitate this process, bring clarity, and I believe that this proposal will be commended several times later. Then there are these manyfold effects on the fact that, just as has been said here, renovation is usually quite cyclically-free, because repairs are always going on. Whether there is a recession or not, the renovation remains at about the same level. In this way, too, this proposal brings general benefits to the labour market, that even if there are difficult times, then a house can be laid down and built in another place, while also safeguarding the interests of all the residents involved and shareholders. Many elderly people in connection with the plumbing renovation have to move away because they already cost a thousand euros per square metre. They nowhere have enough money to do this, and they can't and don't want to take out a loan, preferring to move out. This, too, will provide answers to this problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u145	Mr President! Two more points that I would like to make about this unanimous report by the Committee on the Environment: The second is these tax issues. In other words, there might have been a need to reflect on these property tax and income tax provisions, but the committee saw that, since we are at the end of the period and here is the timetable for this to come into force in the early part of the year, this consultation and so on could not be extended. However, the consolidation and clarity of practices, for example on tax implications, will be necessary in the future to make the demolition of new construction a possible option in all these renovation situations of the housing company. The second point is the independence of the experts. Let us hope that, over the coming years, there will be expertise that will be able to collect the building and design funding sectors in particular, and that will then be of assistance to these housing companies when it comes to the lay government. To conclude, thank you to colleagues, representatives Hassi, Kiuru Pauli, Torniainen, Elovaara, Laukkanen, and then also to ministers Tiilikainen and Lindström, who in the early years gave a positive and positive answer to this written question, which I did in the early part of the year, and then to Minister Häkkänen, who has recently shepherded the fact that good legislative work has been done here in the Ministry of Justice. When I was involved in those hearings, the real point was that if many other things had been prepared as well as what this Ministry of Justice had done here, they too might have moved forward more quickly — in that sense, thank you all. And my colleague, Elovaara, thanks again for the encouragement. This promotion of democracy is indeed an important issue, and it is also an opportunity for a Member of Parliament, particularly in this debate on citizens' initiatives, to have an influence through a legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u146	Mr President! In several speeches, attention has been paid to renovation projects, and the fact is that in recent years the number and volume of renovation projects have increased considerably. There are successful renovations and less successful renovations. There is also the fact that many older buildings and buildings built in the 1960s and 1970s are not designed in such a way that they become mechanically ventilated and so away. As a result, renovation projects are very demanding, and renovation projects are also expensive, which means that it will cost the population unexpectedly. Residents and housing companies are not often prepared for such high costs. That is why it is a good idea for the government's proposal to now be able to bring about this dismantling new construction. However, it is essential for the success of the demolition of the new construction project that it is planned and developed in a high-quality manner and that land use and land planning are also taken into account. In practice, projects are also economically viable by increasing the number of building rights. This will also bring them to the benefit of the inhabitants and bring new building stock to the cities. In some speeches, reference has been made to this whole reform of the Land Use and Building Law. I personally hope that, as the project is now being carried forward, this dismantling new construction will also be taken into account, so that it can also be exported more widely than to housing companies alone. For example, these business centers, which have reached the end of their path and time limits, could then be dismantled and areas developed. Then reference was made to the protection of the cultural environment. Yes, I believe that those things will also be taken into account by the designers. It is not precisely a cultural environment that is at risk here, but it can also be properly designed and cared for. All in all, a good proposal from the government and a good thing that goes ahead.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u147	Mr President! New construction and the rational development of the building stock in many places, at least in such areas, where there are small municipal centres, have come across the fact that if there is a company-shaped residential building or production plant or, for example, a commercial rental building for other uses, the unanimity requirement has caused a lot of problems in the reform process. The transition to a qualified majority is very welcome in this respect, and here I also thank the committee for its work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u148	Mr President! In short, just here. Mr Torniainen did make a very good point of saying that it would be great for building supervision and environmental operators to understand how important it is to be able to reform an area. We have a situation in Espoo where the other side of the track has been renovated. There are new buildings, new shopping center. On the other side of the track, a huge dispute has arisen over the dismantling of the old town hall. It has been empty for six years, and the other side of the whole track is from the 70s to the 80s. It is not renewed at all. The other side is new, great construction. It is a harsh example of how these things can sometimes go in quite such a direction that in the end no one will benefit from it. I hope that at this point too the law will be reformed and give flexibility and opportunities to intervene in such matters as being a brake on development.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u149	Mr President! Thank you very much for your excellent contributions. Many things have come to light here, in terms of in-fill and future legislation as well as renovation projects, and the fact that we can agree on that and go to a qualified majority, which is, however, the practice in most democratic Finland. Another thing that needs, needs and deserves to be said in this connection, Mr President, is the legislation on the housing information system, which was actually laid down in the Committee on Legal Affairs last year. Mr Laukkanen and Mr Hänninen, who are members of the Legal Committee, are among the members of the Chamber. In the future, this housing information system and trade register entries and everything can be handled electronically. It is also important that these share listings and other matters be coordinated with the legislation of the future housing information system. In fact, legislation has already been adopted, but the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection stressed the importance of monitoring this and then explaining with regard to the implementation of this housing information system how all the changes made in the Housing Company Act will move forward. For my part, I would like to thank all colleagues once again for their support and travel, for this journey of about two and a half years, which has been on the table, sometimes more and sometimes less. Somehow I might go back there. In Oulu, when I decided that if the public gives confidence and this is what I'm going to do, it was clear that it will work together. Life, like politics, is team-playing, and no one can do it alone, but together you can do a lot of things. This amendment to the Housing Company Act, which will hopefully indicate in-service construction and many more in the years to come, is an indication that things can be done together.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u150	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 25/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u151	Mr President! This government proposal and the report of the Economic Committee propose to abolish the minimum capital requirement for a private limited company, the capital requirement for a housing company and the reserve funding obligation for a cooperative. The aim is to facilitate the exploitation of private limited companies in small and start-up businesses and to promote the digitisation of register practices. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy welcomes the Government's proposal and supports its adoption as unchanged. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers that the current minimum capital requirement of EUR 2500 is de facto irrelevant for the protection of creditors. The capital must be controlled by the limited liability company at the time of registration but may be transferred from the company even if immediately after registration has been completed. Under certain circumstances, the capital requirement may create a false impression that the company would have at least that level of buffer at all times. In view of Finland’s overall level of cost, the amount must also be considered to be very small, i.e. its effective effect on the protection of the position of creditors is entirely marginal even if the amount was actually available to the company. The share companies are subject to numerous obligations to describe and disclose the company’s financial position. In terms of the protection of creditors, it is therefore more important than the minimum capital requirement by means of up-to-date financial statements and other transparency requirements, the conditions for the distribution of funds and the exposures defined for the management and shareholders of the company. As I have already said, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has been unanimous in this report. And I believe that, as an entrepreneur for 30 years, this will make it easier to start a business, and I believe that this law is part of a reduction in bureaucracy, which is a very welcome change in the law, as referred to in the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u152	Mr President! I myself have an entrepreneurial background, and we had several businesses when I was young, in my 30s. That is what we set up for different needs, and it was always this question that there had to be a great deal of equity, and that many projects, even good ideas, slowed down. This proposal now addresses this issue and removes this minimum capital requirement, making it easier to try. Yes, in this enterprise, in the liberation of it, is our future. In the 1990s, when there was a situation in Canada where high unemployment was slipping, the government realized that if we were able to influence the fact that people themselves want to employ themselves and make it easier for them to survive. And in three years, unemployment was overcome by facilitating the creation of businesses, facilitating the recruitment of its first employee, and I think that there were also significant other facilitations in companies with fewer than three employees. In this way, an enterprising people were able to fulfill their own dreams. I believe that many young people out there who are wondering how to move forward in this country and make their dreams come true are very pleased with this bill. I have to say that this is one major change in these government deregulations, a very small but significant one. Thank you to the government for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u153	Mr President! It is excellent that such relics, this private limited liability company minimum capital requirement and likewise this cooperative reserve funding obligation, are removed. I was a member of the Economic Committee during my first period of 2003-2007 and a major reform of the Companies Act was carried out. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy already discussed this issue and understood that this minimum capital requirement for a limited company is economically insignificant. There then arose such an economic posture team, if sarcasm was allowed, which, however, thought this was so necessary that it was not possible to give it up. It is very good that we are now doing this which has already been done in so many countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u154	Mr President! Just as other fellow Members have said, this government bill, which will now be adopted during this parliamentary term, is very good and bureaucratic and, above all, encourages entrepreneurship. The minimum capital requirement of EUR 2500 is not in itself relevant to the company’s activities because it is such a small amount of money. What is more important is that the company invests well in it, keeps accounts and financial statements up to date and manages them elegantly, manages the audit with a sufficient level of quality, so that shareholders and society, too, have knowledge of the real state of the company. This will provide the important information to shareholders and everyone else who needs that information that the company is doing well. If the company is in bad shape, the EUR 2500 capital will in practice have no bearing on its business. Even more important today, I would like to see red tape dismantled. These different micro-enterprises are created like mushrooms in the rain. When it is a booming season, then many individuals can set up a small business and succeed in it and create a good reward for themselves, support their families and, at best, employ others. There are a huge number of these cases in Finland. I just read in the paper about a young man who had set up such a small business, and a fool, he went up wildly, the product was in demand, and he was able to hire new people to work. In other words, this kind of procedure, the elimination of bureaucracy, must be fully supported and red tape dismantled by Parliament, so much so that we will then be able to survive the future and pay our debts.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u155	Mr President! The report appears to be unanimous. As far as this is concerned, it seems that the Finns of Finland have joined in on this. Personally, I wonder that once this proposal has been approved, the empty pocket can set up a completely empty limited liability company, make purchase invoices and so on, and the customer, who is a co-contributor, must then always examine the customer information and the reliability of the management of the company and so on what is said here about which will replace this minimum capital requirement. I don't really know where this is going in practice. In my opinion, this minimum capital requirement of EUR 2500 is rather limited. If you are going to make a firm effort, you might think that you should put a little bit of your own money on it and not go on the whole basis that I'm going to take it from there and there, and then I'm going to go bankrupt with my company and then the creditors are left to lick their hands, there's not even that capital. The problem is, as the President has said here, that this EUR 2500 requirement, in fact for the protection of creditors, is irrelevant, precisely because it can be paid and taken away immediately. But perhaps it is not totally irrelevant, and on the other hand, I would have wondered, at least personally, whether it could be required so that there should be a core capital in the company, the size of which it would now be considered. I am sure that Mr President would remember at what stage it was, when this requirement was reduced to EUR 2500, there is not much time for it — it has not gone to zero. I hope that the protection of creditors, for example, will be monitored very closely. The committee here does say that it welcomes the fact that the protection of creditors will be examined, but the concern may remain that it will be weakened. And at least as a legal person, the original purpose of the limited liability company here does get a lot out of hand.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u156	Mr President! I myself think a little like Mr Kankaanniemi. I myself have been a micro-entrepreneur since 92 and I remember my first company, which had to be set up to sell different products from door to door, and it was a business name. It got off to a good start, and the name of the action was still Lamaurakoitus in Uusimaa — I thought it was a good name because life after the recession was lived and in that sense. It taught us how to carry out financial responsibility, accounting, accounting and so on — yes, the accountants carry out their duties. But then, when we got a little bit on our feet and found that the operation was profitable, then a limited company was established. I do not know whether the abolition of the share capital requirement is necessarily the best way to encourage people to start entrepreneurship, because it also requires different responsibilities. We should not just encourage people to become entrepreneurs if we do not have the ability to take care of their own finances, and there are many of these people, because we also have very many companies going bankrupt all the time. In that sense, EUR 2500 is not a large sum if entrepreneurship is started, as the requirement for share capital can also be implemented, for example, with fixed assets, such as cars, if it is recorded in the accounts. And the share capital, when you usually go into a company, that money, can be used immediately for that business, excluding your own salary. It can be used for other purposes, paying bills and purchasing. As far as I am concerned — I have not been in committee, where this was discussed and these experts were consulted — I have not heard those statements — what this point of departure has been in this situation. Of course it is the case that the Finns of Finland are in favour of facilitating entrepreneurship and getting access to business. That is quite clear. But the measures should be something else. For example, in terms of bureaucracy, the all-seeming reporting jungle, which exists, it has still not been possible to reach the so-called one-stop-shop principle that an entrepreneur could, in a way, in an even easier way communicate the responsibilities required by law. Of course, we do have different portals where many things can be done at the same time, but the paperwork is still extremely large. In some Western European countries there are such business practices to implement, for example, that taxation takes place instead of business, for example, on the basis of the size of the store. Of course, there are countries that do not necessarily believe the reality of the tax return as to how much turnover it is and then measure it in some other way. In that sense, there is a great deal of business in Finland, for example in the restaurant sector, where at least taxes have not been very well collected, if that is the case, so there could be some other way of trying to tax such companies than simply on the basis of how they report their own income.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u157	Mr President! This is indeed a question of removing both the minimum capital requirement for a private limited liability company and the capital requirement for a housing company and the reserve funding obligation for a cooperative — all — by this same government proposal. As the daughter of an entrepreneur family, I welcome the fact that a few colleagues, who grew up in the chaos of the assisting family, reminded me that when I entered politics about 20 years ago, the minimum requirement was 50,000 marks. That reminded me that it was somewhat exciting that it had indeed been raised to $50,000 in 97 C.E., but earlier it had been about $15,000. For some reason it was then wanted to be raised in the late 1990s, and it was at that level for quite a long time ago, that is to say, converted into euros, EUR 8000, until a new law on limited liability companies came into force in 2006, which dropped it to the current EUR 2500. Of course, it is true that, in a certain way, it is also a threshold, and on the other hand it is also in a way that I have now invested EUR 2500 in that company and I want to do things to make it a success. On the other hand, it has also created the false impression that the company would actually have at least that amount, i.e. EUR 2500, at its disposal at all times. That's not what it means. Eli has been able to start a business, put EUR 2500 in initial capital, and then use it as soon as it is established. So in that sense — and that is a rather small sum. But others have the know-how to start companies faster, and others have the wealth to start a business. For some there has been no threshold of 2,500 euros. There are good and bad aspects of this proposal, but I see that then, in the sense that the EUR 2500 has been just in terms of its initial capital, we are going in the right direction. It is also important to remember the very big things that have happened there in the '90s, that we still have quite a lot of entrepreneurs, regardless of what has been the company's initial capital, in such a situation that they need other help with creditors, bankruptcies and others.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u158	Madam President! I think that the debate on the subject is a good one, and I very much understand the negative position they have taken here, but as such a practical person, I believe that your fear is pointless because this change will make it easier for us small entrepreneurs. I'm a small entrepreneur myself. I've been thinking about entrepreneurship. A lot of people are doing what Mr Niikko said in that regard that first we are under the name of a trader and then, after the business progresses, we are turning it into a limited liability company, and that is unnecessary bureaucracy. It takes time, it complicates the procedure. The stock company is this time, today. Now that we can directly set up a limited liability company without creating a complex transition from a trader to a limited liability company, we do not need very many things in it after all when such a company is set up. And in particular, when Finland is this kind of small business and entrepreneur country, where exactly small entrepreneurs, they sole entrepreneurs, are in fact the largest number group, this situation improves considerably. We will be able to establish a limited liability company, and when a limited liability company pays that salary, it can be deducted from the company's profits, but in the name of the company which, unfortunately, still accounts for most of this minimum capital of EUR 2500, the entire income of that company will then be the income of that person. The second, of course, is that in the form of a limited liability company, the money can be put into savings for the concerns of the days to come, the distribution of dividends will allow it to be distributed. In other words, I consider this proposal to be very well-founded and present-day, forward-looking, and there is a very small marginal problem of saving the rights of creditors with the EUR 2500 in edible share capital, which is therefore zero. It is more of a political populism, but of course I understand those who are opposed to the great changes in life.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u159	Madam President! As I have already said in my presentation of the report, the Finns of Peru have been quite unanimous in this report. Well, the expert hearing did find out that this does nothing to help the grey economy and crime — it did find out in the expert hearing — and that this kind of EUR 2500 cannot be prevented if you want to engage in it. In other words, if a criminal path is taken, it has, of course, been possible on the basis of the current law on limited liability companies. The current law in force is that if the capital has been consumed, the company should be liquidated, but, as you know, today, when small companies do not necessarily need an auditor if the articles of association have been amended, the government will not take action to liquidate the company. Therefore, even in that case, the share capital does not matter at all. And, as I have already said in the report, in terms of the protection of creditors, it is therefore more important than the minimum capital requirement with up-to-date financial statements, and that is very important when loans are left to the bank and so on. It is also crucial for creditors. It is further noted that the capital requirement for housing companies has been 8,500. Well, that goes away, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u160	Mr President! To that extent, I take the view that the Finns of Finland do not, of course, object, but this raised concerns about where this may lead. Of course, we agree that this unnecessary bureaucracy should be dismantled, as Mrs Torvinen mentioned, it is not in anyone's interest. But let us take this from a practical point of view: the new business centres and many other employment offices are now trying to attract young people to become entrepreneurs right away, for example, in order to get a first job, and this is something that is done very much. I know young people who have gone to the very first job to do business, and then they have got that money together — if they haven’t got the money, they haven’t gone to it, at least in the form of a limited liability company. But now, in a way, when this great change in life takes place, a young person leaves for business without knowing anything about the basics, and I am afraid that this threshold in itself will fall in the wrong way for those who are not in a sense capable of entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurship, however, is a very demanding job if we start to comply with these current and past legal squirms. It is not easy to carry out entrepreneurship in such a way as to meet all the obligations that society should take care of. I certainly agree that we need to make it easier to become an entrepreneur, that's a pretty clear job, but that's the reality that keeps it when you become an entrepreneur. In this regard, if you do not have to put any money into it in the first place, the risk-taking threshold in the wrong way can be achieved by calling the war.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u161	Madam President! Let's just say briefly, when I was in that reference group of Finns, when it was thought that this removal of the limited liability company capital came from the Finns. That's it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u162	Madam President! There's a lot of good thinking around here. When I was a serial entrepreneur myself when I was young, we started five businesses and we were eager friends, so in many places this threshold rose. It was even higher then, and it seemed even more impossible. They were aware of the risks. Perhaps, however, these problems raised by Mr Niiko are in the minority. I don't know where this is going, but we'll see. I am sure there are some of these, as Mr Niikko has said here, cases such as the irresponsible establishment of companies when it is so easy. But when I have once had a business name, I have wondered that when that company got different jobs, it was always up to me. Then the limited liability company became a legal person with the responsibility, and it greatly improved that night’s sleep when it realized that if the limited liability company did not succeed, it could go into liquidation and then go bankrupt or quit in some other way without always having its own property in the company. In a way, I consider this model of entrepreneurship to be important in such a way that the entrepreneur also has a clear way of working and can feel that the company itself will then also bear that risk. In England, when there were a lot of debt arrangements problems, it was found that one thing to help people not get into distress was that the law was put in place that the entrepreneur’s dwelling that he owns, where he lives, can only be attached to the company. In this way it was prevented that if the company went down, then the apartment and all the other property went down at the same time. It was very smart thinking and in the long run saved society money. That is what I would like to ask you: is it really the case, Mr Niikko, that you are not in favour of this being removed?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u165	Mr President! I can say to Brother Laukkanen, Mr Laukkanen, that we are not proposing to reject this, but it is, of course, good to have a debate on the content of this proposal at this stage. This is a very thin report. Well, it is good in itself that it is thin, but I have little doubt that perhaps some aspects of this issue have not been dealt with in more depth in the committee. There are mainly officials here and some corporate representatives, but this sort of legal philosophical review must have been forgotten — I don’t know if the government has thought about it. This is a crucial change in the basic idea of a limited liability company. Yes, I understand that, and I believe what I believe in this second paragraph. The abolition of minimum capital has been written down and the President-in-Office has presented it a couple of times. That is clear text, but there are always two options at least. One is that we break the whole thing down, or the other is that we fix it in such a way that it is better suited to its purpose. For example, the example of the depreciation of wealth tax, which I often used here, more than ten years ago: I would not have completely removed it, I would have corrected its shortcomings and let it go. Perhaps a billion, a half and a half so far would have been made tax revenue if only it had been made fair. But the government then chose the way to eliminate completely and the rich benefited. This is where the empty pockets will benefit completely. It is now easy for them to set up a limited liability company, to start a business, and they gain a fine position as an entrepreneur, which is not necessarily easy in all respects. Mr President! There is another factor in this, that this desire to have all possible people as entrepreneurs has now perhaps overplayed a little too much. When you go to this business side, for example, social security funds do not receive the same income from entrepreneurs as employees — pension security and social security — and we have a trend in that direction, both in the Social Insurance Institution and in the pension sector, perhaps that gaps increase, costs increase easily, but the return on these funds decreases. And the same goes for tax revenue, of course. Well, this is, of course, a factor which I am sure has not had to be considered in this context, but I would say that it will come to us very soon how we will finance social security.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u166	Madam President! Because of that previous speech, I wanted to point out that this does not create a group of fraudsters in Finland. I think it is misleading, offensive and untrue. In my own profession — I am a lawyer, a legal entrepreneur — I think that, in comparison with the fact that we have 7,700 companies and 9,700 business names starting each year, this is, you know, a bill for us ordinary — non-cons, as I would like to say here — non-cons. This will protect those small entrepreneurs, those modest entrepreneurs. This is the representative. Mr Laukkanen said very well how entrepreneurs were protected in England. This is precisely what protects those small entrepreneurs. They will not be made cheaters, as the Kankaaniemi of Peruvian Finns claims.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u169	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 28/2018 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u170	Madam President! This report from the Ombudsman for Children last year is somewhat similar to those from previous years. Here some things are always emphasised more, but very much this follows the same lines and observations. There are some things I would like to raise again this year. First of all, we are talking on page 152 about the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. “The risk to a child of religion being exposed to skilled mistreatment is not sufficiently addressed in national legislation. Possibilities to monitor the activities of communities outside it are weak.” The reason why it is weak is mentioned here that this panel of experts does not have the power to examine the purposes and forms of religious communities already registered. The background is that when such a religious community is created, then before that there is such a panel of experts, composed of three persons, set up by OKM, and it gives the Patent and Registration Board an opinion on the activities of this religious community to be established. That's good enough for the starting point. Now that perhaps a few years ago — and we do not have to go back for that many years — has come out in public with a variety of situations where the status of children needs to be assessed in connection with some religious events, the Child Affairs Ombudsman therefore wants to set up a monitoring commission for the activities of religious communities. In thisconclusion,the Ombudsman’s view is as follows: ‘In order to achieve more effective implementation, legislation should be developed in order to ensure that an independent supervisory body has effective means to intervene in activities that harm children’s rights,in particular in advance but also in retrospect. “ Well, this is quite surprising that we are being presented with such a supervisory body in one of the communities in this society called Finland. If we have problems of this kind — for example, we have heard and even if it has become apparent in sports clubs that children have been sexually abused for example — then I have never heard of the desire to see these clubs followed by a monitoring commission. Will a Commission be set up to investigate and monitor the activities of a community? Yes, in principle in a society called Finland, all actors must have the freedom to operate within the framework of legislation. Freedom also involves responsibility, but also trust in compliance with the law. We cannot, as a result of individual cases, put such a development in this society that, through different bodies, we begin to control the prevention of crime. In this sense, I think that the child affairs commissioner has gone a little further to extend the scope of competence to an area which I do not think should be so proactively addressed. Then, Mr President, the second point I raise is sexual offences and other crimes against life and health. On page 162, the Ombudsman for Child Welfare concludes: ‘It is important to carry out a continuous assessment of whether the sentences convicted are lawful in relation to the seriousness and harm Well, this is where I would have preferred to read in such a way that, in the opinion of the Ombudsman for Children, the judgments are fair enough as to the seriousness of the act. The case of Oulu and the serious suspicions of sexual offences against children in Helsinki have led to a good debate in this country. We must have a bold debate on whether our legislation is at the right level in relation to the seriousness of these acts. I do not think it is, and I do not think that the majority of the House believes it is. Well, does that not then lead us to change the law, to tighten these laws in order to get the right convictions? I would have expected a firmer position from the Commissioner for Children to conclude that this legislation is dragging its feet in this regard. Mr President! Thirdly, I would like to draw the conclusions from page 188 on genital mutilation. The Ombudsman for Children notes: ‘The mutilation of girls’s reproductive organs is considered to be an However, the conclusions do not contain any proposal for action on how to prevent or prevent this. I'll take a live example. During the last parliamentary term, Yle’s journalist, whether it was now an MOT journalist, tried to do several months of story about how many second-generation immigrants born in Finland have been circumcised. I know this because I was asked a lot of things in this regard — not because I am a midwife, but because my wife is a midwife, and the reporter tried to pry about what they would find out when no one would talk about it. It is a silent secret of how much happens to give birth to persons who have been circumcised. Well, this case was never published because it did not progress — it was rejected by other persons — but at least it gave me the impression that if we have a child born to a woman who is a second-generation immigrant and who is circumcised, then should we not be automatically interested in it by the child welfare authorities — and the child welfare commissioner — that their children are not also circumcised. These are hereditary, cultural rituals, often linked to the religion of Islam, which should be viewed in a different way than simply mentioned here. Of course, there's been a mention here of boys' circumcision. It has been mentioned as follows: ‘There is no legislative act and, in other cases, the main right has recognised the need for legislation to clarify the legal This is where he calls for legislative measures. In the same conclusion — one last example, Mr President — we are talking about legislation on transgenders, he said that there has been an attempt to reform this regulation for a long time, but the preparation has often been interrupted. The Child Counsellor states: [President : Time! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u175	Madam President! I understand that we representatives have a great deal to talk about about this report by the Ombudsman for Children, and hopefully also this first report, so that it also goes beyond the next elections and that child strategy will also be drawn up. Indeed, the report of the Ombudsman for Children gives a very comprehensive and profound picture of the Finnish welfare state, especially from the point of view of family and child policy. As we all know in this Chamber, Finland's path from a poor country to one of the richest in the world has been a success story, combining the strong political will to create a better society and unprecedented economic growth. Climate change is challenging material growth and it seems that the political will to develop a welfare state in a direction where everyone benefits, not just a few, is lacking. Reducing inequality should be at the heart not only of social policy but also of economic policy, which is the only way to guarantee a secure and sustainable society, but also in the future. Unfortunately, this government has also cut out education, reduced the income of the most brittle Finns and caused uncertainty in the labour market. Mr President! The report of the Ombudsman for Children talks about investing in childhood as follows: Investing in childhood means sufficient income, time and opportunity for parents to be with children, as well as ensuring a good level of early childhood education, day care and schooling. Care for the well-being of children is the best possible human resource management. — I think we can easily agree with that. Investing in children means a broader social policy with a view to sustainable solutions from an economic, social and environmental point of view in the future. There is nothing to suggest that the policy of balancing in principle does not provide a broad benefit to society as a whole. For us in the Left Alliance, this idea is self-evident. True freedom comes from the fact that each individual can progress to its full potential, and scarcity does not prevent one from succeeding in life. Everyone has the right to good everyday life, better and more equal working life, education and health care. Mr President! Unfortunately, we live in a 24/7 society. For example, in the service sector, the extended opening hours of shops are reflected in more fragmented working hours and decreased time with the family. We no longer have the so-called national holidays that would allow for simultaneous silence and calming down with family and relatives, as before. But there's always someone who has to work. Of course, in many areas, of course, shift work has been commonplace for ages, but today it seems that more and more work is being fragmented. This is also a class issue, for joint holidays have become upper - middle - class luxury. On the other hand, overtime in the grey area in the families of senior employees is done in the evenings and at weekends and, of course, the constant readiness is a burden on families. Parents are also concerned about their own ability to cope and their parenting. Mr President! In recent weeks, we have waked up to the insecure world of our children and young people. Unfortunately, however, this is not a new phenomenon, but sexual harassment, harassment and exploitation have always occurred in this country, unfortunately, but what could each of us do to prevent such shocking crimes from taking place? It is clear that the resources of the police and the judiciary need to be increased so that sexual offences are investigated and properly convicted. Today, Minister Häkkänen has announced that, during this term of government, preparations must be made for the reform of the criminal code on sexual offences. Lack of consent should be recorded in the description of rape, and sexual intercourse with a young child should always be treated as rape. During social media, we parents need to be even more precise about how and with whom our children spend time in the pits of the Internet. Digital skills are a common education of today, and we adults should also do much to improve them. Young people would also need safe facilities. Especially in cities, homes are small and there is no room for big friends in the village. It must therefore be possible to spend time in non-commercial facilities where safe adults are present. Every young person must have access to a hobby regardless of their parents’ livelihood. But above all, children and young people need our adult support, security, caring and love, family time, genuine listening and attention. And that attention cannot be corrected by legislation, but must be at the heart of our social policy as a whole. Mr President! The draft resolution of the committee's report is that Parliament requires the Government to draw up a national strategy for children. In fact, it seems a little confusing that we do not have this national strategy for children. But the most important thing is to look ahead, and this development of a strategy for children is more than welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u176	Madam President! The debate on children is very important. Unfortunately, we have too little chance of doing this, as I have seen on many other issues today. We have over 100,000 children living in poor families. It is shocking in view of the fact that we are living through the end of the 2010s and talking about a welfare society. Our future is not preemptive to well-being. Our birth rate has collapsed. When I was born, a few were born to 100,000, or this year I think there will be, or at least last year, only 50,000, which means that it has halved at this time. Of course, it is a long time because I am an old man, yet the direction is worrying for the future of the Finnish people. In other words, we must invest in children, and now that the elections are ahead, I hope that the issue of children will be strongly raised, not just important pension issues, important climate issues, but also child issues. Mr President! Another issue on the agenda is this issue of bullying, which is still very much in our schools. That is what is mentioned in this opinion of the committee. It is said that there must be effective measures to achieve zero tolerance for bullying and harassment. That's right. The Finns have presented a school peace ombudsman who, from outside its school-specific administration, would be available to support and solve both pupils and teachers when there is such bullying. It's very important. Mr President! As the third issue today, we cannot fail to talk about these violent rapes that have come up in recent days. I am thinking of the 10 to 15-year-old girls whose entire future lives will be destroyed by these events. This cannot be tolerated or tolerated. Measures need to be found to address these issues. If it is an immigration policy issue, then let reforms be carried out with a strong hand. Mr President! Here, in the opinion of the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, there is a motion for a resolution containing four points. We also dealt with this report or report by the Ombudsman for Children in the Committee on Finance, and we worked so, somewhat exceptionally, that the civilised section of the Committee on Finance and the section on local government and health, which I chair, dealt with this at joint meetings, because this is largely a matter for the civil society and, to a large extent, for the social and health sector. Briefly, then, in the Committee on Budgets, we raised this issue of child budgeting. Here we say that child budgeting means looking at the local, regional or state budget from a child-right perspective, in which case it is a question of tracking and monitoring the funds allocated to children and of assessing the impact of budgetary decisions on children. So we presented the sections together and the Committee on Finance unanimously in our opinion to the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy that... - I think I'm being wrong. This is the Civilization Committee's... No, it is the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Well, whatever it is, now I'm not going to investigate. — ‘The committee would include a statement requiring the government to ensure that the preparation of I regret to say that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has not included this unanimous motion from the Committee on Budgets in its opinion, which is now under discussion. I hope that, despite the fact that this has happened, the government, the present and, above all, the future, will, in line with child budgeting and the assessment of the impact on children, take much stronger budgetary and legislative preparations, particularly on the grounds I mentioned at the beginning.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u177	Mr President! Perhaps in some way the speeches that have been made here are a little sad to say about the situation in this matter. This is therefore a report by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, on which the Committee on Education issued an opinion last spring. And while this very report is unanimous, there were in fact differing opinions in the Committee on Culture and Education, and perhaps the debate was also quite, if we look at the hearings, reasonably in-depth in relation to this committee itself, and we all understand why. But I cannot help but start now by saying, when Mr Niikko said that this is the same report as always, that it is, of course, a bit special when this is the first report by the Ombudsman for Children to Parliament in the history of Finland. In other words, this is the first of its kind, and perhaps it should have been the case at this time in the evening, when, for example, Mr Kankaanniemi quite rightly said that this is a very important issue and that this document, which has been the basis of the debate, is also exceptionally extensive. After all, there are three parts here which have identified both our political starting point for children and childhood and the Finnish child policy, from the 16th century onwards, and then came to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child in national law. In other words, it is a very large document in its entirety and the recommendations that have come from it. So, in this context, I may regret Parliament's reading, but I would like to thank the Ombudsman for Children's Affairs and the authors of the report themselves. This will be very good material for us for the future. Mr President! Perhaps the generalisation of this whole report, which we also discussed in the Committee on Education, relates to the fact that the Child Affairs Commissioner has taken note of the fact that the welfare state seems to be repeatedly underachieved, particularly in terms of strengthening the participation of children and young people and preventing exclusion. So the welfare state is underachieved. Not so much attention is paid to individual legislative shortcomings or system failures, but to this general underperformance. Problems are seen, but yet our level of competence has been falling for a long time, regional and social inequality has increased. Development efforts remain fragmented, often short-term, and more in-depth social policy action and strategy have been lacking. And perhaps that is why I believe that the most important statement made by the Ombudsman for Children relates to the appeal that the Government, Parliament and other levels at municipal level take responsibility for the children and young people in Finland at a large angle. Mr President! We, as a Socialist group, in the past spring, when we dealt with this in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, took a close look at this report and raised a number of points in particular, of which I would like to say two or three: Firstly, the problem of the development of inequality between children and young people, perhaps as one of the most effective means we have seen in many cities, has been the subject of positive special treatment, so-called positive discrimination. And we have taken the view that it would probably be wise to extend it to all services for children and young people and to analyse the services for children and young people, as it were, with these glasses on. Here. After all, in Helsinki we have achieved quite good results. In addition, we have raised our thinking — and this will also be very central to our future election programme — that children's services should be seen through where all the children are. Children come to child health clinics, early childhood education and school, and we would therefore like to see more and more day care centres, schools, educational institutions like this as well-being centres for children and young people who reach all children and young people in their own everyday life and growing environment. This could perhaps be a more timely way of supporting growth, development, identifying potential problems and then correcting ex post in the context of a range of special services which, however, will never reach all children. Well, in addition to these, we have also raised the recommendations related to our Knowledge Path 2030, which are quite obvious even after reading this report. I will now mention just two key points: extending the subjective right to early childhood education to all children, regardless of the labour market status of parents, is absolutely central to the problem of inequality and equality among children, and then this extension of the overall school path to cover secondary education. That is what the report of the Ombudsman for Children deals with, above all, from the point of view of non-discrimination. Our current legislation makes it possible for a 15-year-old to opt out of formal education, as it were, and the report of the Ombudsman for Children states that this can be seen as discriminatory. We do not take care of all under 18-year-olds in the same way, because they are not subject to compulsory education. Mr President! Finally, the most important point, which, fortunately, has also come to the report of the committee responsible for this report, is indeed this strategy for children that has already been mentioned. We also heard in committee one of the authors of the report, Emeritus Professor Martti Rimpelä. Yes, I was left with a great and profound mark on his description of how this fragmented, projected world of ours, as it were, forgets that there should be a child and a young person at the heart of the whole thing, and that is why this is the whole idea of the strategy. We have some examples of, for example, Britain where this kind of children’s act legislation has been made. In Finland, perhaps the old-age service law would be appropriate as a comparison point or analogue. In other words, it is as if this weaker group, whose protection and welfare we are all responsible for, has been put at the heart of society as a whole, both legislation and all other activities, in a sense, from there, so now we can only hope that this preparation of the strategy for children will indeed move forward quickly and its level of ambition will be high. This report provides a good basis for this, but we must now complain about our Parliament's way of dealing with this report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u178	Mr President! We therefore have the first report by the Ombudsman for Children and the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on which the Committee on Education and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities gave their opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u181	Mr President! First of all, the report by the Ombudsman for Children is very important and it is regrettable that this type of approach, in which he reports to Parliament, has not been in place before. And we must agree with the criticisms of colleagues that it is indeed very descriptive that we are dealing with such a central issue at this time of day with such a small composition. This would definitely have been worth a proper debate. But this is also a somewhat structural issue or phenomenon of this kind. For some reason, there is no such strategic leadership in child and youth policy in Finland, and here too the report states that the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child has stated that there is no comprehensive coordination of child policy in Finland. And here, in many respects, the same observation is made: ‘Policy programmes and projects linked to the administrative period have remained individual development activities for the government periods beyond the objectives andimplementing them. “ This is such a powerful message and it is repeated here that I am now focusing mainly on it and saying a few things. I say that child and youth policy is partly highly gender-oriented, and by this I mean that these issues are most often raised by women, and for some reason our committees are also very sexually involved, that is to say the majority of women in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, while we know that men are over-represented on defence, economic and these issues. Well, is that a bad thing? Yes, as long as men in this country decide most things. In other words, I do not think that the issue of children and young people will end up in a sufficiently central place in the government negotiations or in the so-called "hardest cabinets". And this is not an accusation against everyone, it is a statement, and I know that there are distinguished men here who often display social and health policy and children's affairs, and they must be easily identified here: Mika Niikko, Antero Laukkanen, and Sami Savio is there. So, special thanks to you. So I'm a little frustrated. I think we have such a phenomenon, and for some reason, for example, the portfolio of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health usually ends up with a woman, and that is nothing at all, but I do not think that this policy area will gain sufficient weight in relation to it than it deserves. However, it represents a very important part of the budget and brings to the state not only considerable prosperity but also considerable costs when these issues are not properly prioritised. Well, this is just a small wake-up call to this subject that this is everyone's business, because just recently Question Time was the main topic of mental health for children and young people. I followed a debate in which about 30 speeches were made during Question Time, and one of them, namely one, was used by a man. It's about something, isn't it? About what? I don't know, but this isn't good. Then I'd like to make a few points. We cannot continue with this policy, that we have such individual development projects and that policies change and that resources change when governments change. So children and young people are the future of the nation. It cannot be such a ragged thing; it must be at the centre. And I've been acting like this together... — It has also been a key project, once again, in which I have worked, namely a youth guarantee working group on youth exclusion with which we consider what could be done about these issues, and we have decided to present a so-called situation room, which means that there will be a situation room in the immediate vicinity of the Government, which would monitor how things are going for children and young people. There may be a so-called digital painting that tells us how many children's welfare customers or young unemployed we have right now. This cannot be so silod that it is divided into three or four different ministries which do not communicate adequately. So there must be a weekly meeting of both the Minister for Education, the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, the Minister for Basic Services and the Minister for Labour, in other words, these ministers must work together, and we must have a concrete place where it will take place. There's a suggestion. Remove borders and take this issue seriously. Then I would propose a forum for the future, that is, a national body with sufficient authority and authority. I would like to see people sitting there, starting with the President, who will assess how Finland manages child and youth policy, what measures must be taken. And this must have ambitious objectives. We therefore have a leadership deficit on these issues. Okay, now I'm out of strength, but I'm frustrated. But thank you all for being here to discuss this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u182	Mr President! I was at the Regent House a year ago when the Ombudsman for Children published this report, and when I listened to Mr Niikko, for example, it must be remembered that this is the first report from the Ombudsman for Children. So we are dealing with the historical report, and that is why it is so thick and extensive, because it has been necessary to deal with child policy as part of a longer-term policy, and that is why this report by the Commissioner for Children has a particular importance. Among other things, Mr Torsti and Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen said that this would have been a much larger reading, and I fully agree with that for this historic reason that we are dealing with this for the first time. The message that emerges most from this report by the Ombudsman for Children is that our society, Finland, is underachieved for children. We cannot take care of our children to the extent that our values and goals require and expect, and that message is so serious that it should be taken seriously by everyone. For example, about 10% of under 18-year-olds live below the poverty line. The report also highlights the socio-economic health inequalities that already exist in early childhood, as well as the links between socio-economic status and mental disorders, which are visible for children. Particularly worrying is the fact that it appears that the under-represented situation is increasing and that it is becoming more and more over-generational. So we cannot break the cycle, not the legacy of incompetence, education and lack of education, even though that is what a welfare society has been created for. So we are dealing with the most fundamental issues when we deal with this report on children. According to this report, it also appears that the services and benefits provided by society do not sufficiently improve the well-being of the most vulnerable children, and this is also reflected in the distress calls for child protection in recent years. In other words, it is the children who have already suffered as a result of different situations and backgrounds in their childhood that are also the ones in our service system that we cannot help enough. In addition, support and services do not always meet the individual needs of children and young people and families, and this report highlights the fact that our view and, as it were, our way of coming against children is still very system-oriented — not child-oriented, not individual and family-oriented, and this is a change. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health also wishes to stress the importance of equal access to services and benefits in identifying problems and avoiding corrective measures. Our development efforts will also remain fragmented and short-term, and profound social policy conclusions will not be drawn. I believe that many previous speakers have longed for a deeper social policy perspective and direction for children and families as well. That is why I am a little critical of the fact that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, in which I am also myself, went as if to look at the answer to the problems raised by the Ombudsman for Children by means of projects. In other words, in exactly the way Parliament and the ministries were criticised, we also went to answer through the Lappe project and the development programme. Of course, all the good things that are done in the Lappe work are important, but the question is what happens when the project ends. Which measures will survive, or is the Lappe project still just one of these fragments and short-term development tasks for children and young people? If you can't feel like you're part of society, you're out of society. This is particularly true for our young people. If a youth feels that he does not have a place or that the system does not recognize his needs, he or she will feel excluded from society. And when we talk about marginalised young people, it would be more appropriate to talk about marginalised young people. It is our job to ensure that everyone can feel that they are a part of society and not a part of society. It is the first step we can take to help young people from the path of exclusion. The objectives must be set in the child policy strategy, but it must be borne in mind that it is only the annual and annual budgetary effort that will actually determine the achievement of the objectives. As time seems to run fast, I will conclude by saying that it is hoped that young people will be raised more strongly in the future than in this report and that the state of child protection will also need to be more in-depth. For example, the fact that children are transported in child protection by various transport companies, which then:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u183	Madam President! The report by the Ombudsman for Children is indeed the first of its kind and is very broad. I agree with many others here who have said that it really deserves a different time than this late evening. In the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we really did deal with this report by the Commissioner for Children, and we said that it is a very thorough review of the history of child policy, the current situation and the future. It also provides a very broad overview of the situation of children and families with children in Finland at the moment. However, just as the Committee on Education, Social Affairs and Health would like to see the reports in the future pay particular attention to the analysis of how the various decisions and programmes have been reflected in practical measures and in the well-being and health of children and young people. We also drew attention to the fact that this report is very strongly focused on early childhood. Young people are dealt with in a fragmented way in the report, and there is little comment in the report on the daily lives and services of young people, although, as we all know, youth age is a very important development in human life. We in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health considered it important that in future the report should take account of the entire age cycle of children under the age of 18, and I also think that splitting up childhood into different ages will help to make visible the fact that children of different ages have the same rights on the one hand but quite different needs, and we adults should respond well to all these needs. It is said that children are our future, but I think that children and young people are not just our future but they are, or should be, a central part of today's society. In order to promote the health and well-being of children and families with children, we really have a lot to improve and do. The opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is that Parliament requires the Government to draw up a national strategy for children, and if we really think that there has not yet been one, then a strategy for children is needed. As you may all know, the Christian Democrats have been a family party throughout their 60-year history. We have always talked about families, first-hand families with children, although of course important are all kinds of families and also those families that are made up of just one person. But families with children especially need attention. We have a wide range of views on this strategy for children that we are happy to share. We think that a caring and safe home offers the best opportunities for a child and young person to grow up to be a responsible adult and build society’s future. It is a family policy that encourages family choices and enables families to make their own choices that promotes not only the birth rate but also sustainable population development. At the same time, parents are supported in the responsibility for care and education. We think that family policy decisions must always be made primarily in the best interests of the child. There is a lot, far too much, of poverty in families with children, and poverty in families with children can be combated by, among other things, raising child allowances, annual income limits for student families, and deductions for guardians and children. The choice of families must also be increased by developing home care support and introducing, for example, the toddler bonus and baby allowance we propose in connection with the first child benefit. A 1000 euro baby allowance in connection with the first child allowance would ease the financial challenges associated with the birth of a child. In addition, reconciliation between family and work and family and study should be facilitated in more ways. All in all, Finland will be made a more child-friendly country by introducing an assessment of the impact of children in all decision-making on children, by moving to child budgeting and by making family centres genuinely and extensively responsive to the needs of families. We believe that families with children must also be supported and helped by providing low-threshold preventive support as local services. There must also be sufficient resources for child protection and mental health services for children and young people. As we know, many young people and many very small children today are ill and mental health problems are a major challenge in our society, and if this type of challenge is a major challenge in society, then I do not see that we can talk about a welfare society thoroughly. This is something we must tackle. Grandparents also play an important role. They have an important role to play as a secondary parent and, following the separation of parents, the right of grandparents to visit should be strengthened. I would see that this is a very important issue. All in all, the right of the child of the divorced family to meet and maintain a distant parent must be safeguarded in many ways. High-quality education, culture and sports for all. I think that the exclusion of young people should be prevented by all means, including addressing loneliness. It is important that each child and young person have the opportunity to rely on at least one safe parent, preferably with more. I am also thinking of a nuclear family: if only a child has the opportunity to grow up and develop with its own mother and father, we know from many studies that it is a very welcome and desirable development. — I will certainly continue with the next speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u184	Madam President! This report by the Ombudsman for Children is very thorough and extensive. It contains a lot of reflection, analysis of the current situation and goes a long way to looking for a perspective on the present situation. All parliamentary parties have raised the theme of the upcoming elections to children and young people. However, there are less than ten Members of Parliament on this issue at the moment. This is kind of sad and shameful. The speeches of the parties and Parliament are not credible. We are not credible when these issues are being dealt with here and we are not here to deal with them. There are currently serious situations in Finland with regard to children and young people on a weekly basis, and we are happy to make public statements, but now that we have the opportunity to talk about this, the future of children and young people, only a small proportion of Parliament is present. I agree with the disapproval that it has been decided to bring this issue here tonight. Maybe it's been a thoughtless and unintentional mistake, but it's still a shame. Madam President! When you read this performance, you have to find out that you have to watch this more than once. A quote from this report: ‘The aim of the report of the Ombudsman It would be important for Parliament to show 100-year-old Finland what goals and how to influence the growth and living conditions of children such as child support and services, i.e. national child policy is built. I hope that Parliament will pay particular attention in the first instance to the construction of the conditions for national child policy. This report also systematically assesses for the first time the relationship between Finnish legislation and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which was transposed into national law in 1991. A starting point for all parliamentary groups should be accepted that childhood provides the basis for any subsequent development for each person. What you miss in childhood is later repeated in adulthood. What is achieved in childhood is multiplied by many good things, both for the individual and for society. The value of childhood is both here and now and there in the future. The childhood is intertwined with the present and the future in the most dynamic way from all stages of human growth and development.” The Ombudsman for Child Welfare calls on Parliament to make concrete proposals, directly to bring into the law practical proposals that could make the children feel better. He makes many important observations at a unique time in a person’s life, which is indeed visible even to your old age. Unfortunately, for 20 years, inequalities in society have increased. The situation of single parents has deteriorated. Today, a single parent leaves for work at 6 to 7 hours, takes the children to the nursery and goes to another job in the afternoon and picks up the children at 7 to 8 hours from the nursery. And yet, at times, they have to pick up bread from the bread line for their children. This issue is known to all political decision-makers. That is what we see in the newspapers, in the news, in the studies, but somehow we manage to bypass these issues during one parliamentary term at a time. Mr President, I would like this report by the Ombudsman for Children to be a wake-up call to us and to make it a reality, as some have already said here, that the situation of children and young people and the implementation of these concrete issues, which we have a great deal of. Mr President! One point that I have wondered about in this work by Mrs Kurttila is that she has this attention and her special need to pay attention to the child and family work provided by the congregations and that it should in some way be monitored in a very special way and set up some sort of monitoring committee. Congressman Niikko did a good job on this. But I wonder whether it really is the case that the congregations that have worked here for hundreds of years are doing child and youth work in some way so badly and inadequately or that it is one of the greatest threats to this society, the kind of child and youth work the parishes are doing. I have the impression that in many municipalities child and family work would not be possible without the constructive and highly skilled child and youth work that parishes are doing. Perhaps Thomas Kurttila, as the Commissioner for Children's Affairs, could give this matter and his statement and vision a little more thought. If we in some congregations have had difficulties and privileges,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u185	Madam President! To begin with, Mrs Tanus and Mrs Salonen, the Ombudsman for Children will report annually to the Government on her activities, and this has happened since 2015. This is the first report directly to Parliament. After all, the Government's report has sometimes come to this house for information through the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. This is the first presentation here — as it has been — but I have read these previous reports, and there have been good statements before: for example, last year, there was a ‘poverty without games’ — as a theme —and in 2017’ does the child have legal protection?’. These reports are of great value in support of our work. But, Mr President, I would like to raise an important point here, which I have not been able to mention before. I am a little concerned that the Commissioner for Child Welfare is raising the need here for this reform of the regulation on transgenders from the point of view that children should have autonomy in their own bodies with regard to these remedies and treatment measures. Indeed, it is stated that ‘transgenderregulation has been attempted to modernise ‘and’ legislation should be brought to alevel which ensuresthatthe rights ofthe child are realised and,in particular,thatthe child This is the so-called transfiguration which many parties on the left have demanded during this parliamentary term, and organisations promoting sexual equality have called for the transfiguration to extend to children. I am sorry to say that it too has been swallowed up in the bowels without further examination, because many Members of Parliament are in favour of the Translaki and many parties have said that it should be pushed forward in the next parliamentary term. Since I am not a doctor myself and you do not believe me, however, I have to rely on another name, and when I quickly looked only at it from Google, I found the comments of an interview in the publication of Alma Talent on 16 February 2018 by the Chief Medical Officer of the Youth Psychiatry of TAYS, Kaltiala-Heino. A few observations here, which are just like these basic land-based things: It is mentioned here that ‘girls seeking a high degree ofidentity studies with long-term psychiatric problems and a wide range In addition to this, he mentions that this phenomenon is particularly evident in secondary school children and especially in girls quite suddenly and there is no evidence of why this has happened. He also points out that doctors will face a major ethical problem or issue in the future in the sense that ‘if there is a wide range of psychiatric problems and a lack of identity in the process of confusion,it is necessary to deal with urgent issues first and later return to gender identity’. In other words, he explicitly mentions that this identity confusion should be dealt with rather than directly seeking a process of correcting the gender identity issue. The reason for his comments is that in 2017, for example, nearly 800 persons enrolled in gender identity studies and over 200 of them were underage children and this growth has been tremendously high, namely that the number of young people enrolled in 2016 was four times lower, which means that it has now quadrupled in a few years or, in fact, in a good year. Then, if one third of all applicants for identity studies are minors, then this is a big issue in this society. Where does this come from the sudden need to say that you have to get into such things to think when you have only a puberty age coming up and your sexual identity forming? Mr President! In my opinion, the attitude of society should not be over-encouraged by children in gender-repair treatment at a time when sexual identity is only developing. I would like that this would be a common line for all of us, namely that this sort of irreversible process should start in the child's life when not all things the child and the young person themselves know in their life what they want and what they are. Mr President! Then it is also important to note that in four fifths of childhood identification of the opposite sex disappears in puberty, i.e. in four out of five it disappears then, i.e. this sort of passing phenomenon for most. In my opinion, these findings by the chief medical officer are so important that I am surprised that the child councilman does not defend children any more than he does so that they do not get the wrong way in this society to guide them to things that do not necessarily come back from at all. In that sense, Mr President, I hope that during the next parliamentary term, however, such sensitivity and common sense will also follow in discussions that we do not involve children in adult affairs in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u186	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say to Mr Niiko that it has often been said here that this was the first of its kind so that we should not get involved now. This is quite significant now. It has been decided at the time when the Ombudsman for Children was established in Finland, that once in four years this kind of report will be made, and this is the first time that it has been done. And that is also why this debate here in the Chamber would have been needed, that what we expect from this report in the future, we wait and so on, so now it is sort of not going to happen. There is no blame for this, but it is only good to say to future history writers that this is a very special situation, even a little confusing. Mr President! In fact, I wanted to speak again specifically in order to draw attention to this now, Mr Nikon also raised a single small group, namely trans children and young people. As this group had come up, we heard in the Committee on Education as part of the discussion of the Association for the Families of the Transversals and Youths, and in their statement I now picked up just three points here to add: First, according to the School Health Survey 2017, the latest school health survey, about 5.5 per cent of young people in Finland are thinking about their gender, and about 1.6 per cent of them are trans juveniles, so others are either gender-thinking or gender-specific. These figures are in line with many foreign studies. Secondly, this same opinion states that Ireland, as a Catholic country, brought into force a very progressive translation, i.e. a translation of human rights — this truly urgent need for reform of our trans-national reform is linked to human rights — and there the climate changed very quickly in a much more positive direction and the bullying of trans-human beings has been significantly reduced. Thirdly, in this statement — perhaps even to Mr Niiko — they are pushing for children or young people not to decide on sexual repairs but, for example, on such blocker treatments that move puberty, and this again is medical research. In other parts of Western Europe, there is a rather different way of doing things than in Finland at the moment. There's a very small crowd here. But I must say that this hearing that we had was one of the most touching things that we had in committee, and I would therefore be terribly sensitive to the fact that when we go here and do what is true or not, at least this school health survey should be identified here as material. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u187	Mr President! The report given to Parliament by the Ombudsman for Children is a broad and very welcome overview of the position of children and young people in today's Finland. This report contains a number of good new perspectives and openings. Unfortunately, however, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has not included in its report proposals which are binding on the government, such as those put forward by the Committee on Culture and Education in its opinion. These statements would have included, among other things, zero tolerance for bullying and real opportunities for all children to have at least one hobby in the future. Such measures would be important to prevent exclusion, and we believe that these and many other draft measures should have been clearly and obliging the Government to include them in the committee's report. Mr President! True Finns pay particular attention to the fact that bullying at school is a very serious problem and is still occurring in new forms. Even in the light of research results, bullying often leads to serious social and health problems and increases the risk of exclusion if it is not addressed effectively and in good time. Effective preventive work and early intervention must be invested in reducing bullying. As a new and effective means, basic swamps have proposed the establishment of a post of school peace ombudsman. In addition, the Finns of Finland believe that the primary responsibility for raising children is always the responsibility of the home, but schools, for example, also have a certain responsibility in it. There is more and more disorderly behaviour in our society and we must ensure that the conditions for learning and growth are not undermined. This requires that the opportunities for families to act and to take decisions on their own basis are highlighted and strengthened by means of legislation. This concerns improving the financial position of families with children, such as the return of child allowance. This matter must be referred back to us at the latest in the next government negotiations. Mr President! Mr Niikko mentioned earlier the comment on page 162 of the Ombudsman’s report that the level of punishment for sexual offences against children should be considered in comparison with the seriousness of the offence. It states: ‘It is important to continue to assess whether the sentences convicted are lawful in relation to the seriousness Crimes against children should be based on the premise that the act is always harmful to the child.” It is easy to agree with this view of the Ombudsman for Children. I'll take it as an interpretation that he thinks the convictions are too mild. Mr President! Unfortunately, a number of very disgusting sexual crimes against minors have emerged in recent days. The government must intervene urgently and very firmly in this matter. Last autumn, the Government has brought to Parliament a bill to increase the maximum penalty for sexual abuse of a child from 4 to 6 years in prison. However, as such, there is a serious problem with this government's proposal in the right direction that even the current penalty rates are very rarely used. The Finns of Peru have already considered it very important that the minimum punishments for sexual crimes are also increased considerably. Fortunately, at today's crisis meeting, the chairmen of the parliamentary groups have decided to move this proposal, which has been presented by the Finns of Finland for quite a long time, forward rapidly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u190	Mr President! This has been a very good debate, and I am still sorry that we have so few representatives here. When we talk about children and young people, we talk about the future. I listened to Mr Elovaara's speech with great interest, and I think that his analysis of the reasons for this situation was interesting and thought-provoking. He also had very good and interesting suggestions for solutions. It seems that human-centred issues are not as important as the functioning of the market, for example. Today, the question is more often asked how the market is doing than asking how people, children or young people are doing. And in conflict situations, the market always wins, at least that's what it feels like. We also discussed the development of working life in the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities in this context, and it also became clear in this debate that the needs of children in working life are very often secondary. Legislative proposals on working life often ignore the needs of children and families. The functioning of the market is also more important here. Then why is this so? So I am not against the market in any sense, but it is a question of values and priorities, that is, priorities. Mr President! Sectorality in both municipalities and ministries is also one of the causes of the problem. The issues of children and young people should be seen as a whole, and therefore the phenomenon-based budgeting I have presented would be worth testing. And then there is the problem raised by Mr Elovaara. I agree with these projects. Project funding often prevents long-term development, and often — or not now often but many times — I have met a project that also has very unethical aspects. In other words, the project can be very good, but at the end of the project the funding will run out and those involved will be left empty when the operation stops. Even for children and young people, such unfortunate things have happened. This should never happen. And finally, Mr President, I would like to stress that, alongside the usual economic thinking, we now urgently need a welfare economy and, in addition to the GDP indicator, we now need welfare indicators which could also better reflect the well-being of children and young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u191	Madam President! I had thought about talking a little about different things, but those previous good speeches took my own thoughts a little in the opposite direction, so I will start by saying to children and young people that peace and an environment for growth and development in all areas, peace for growth and development and a safe environment for growth and development when we think about home when we think about school and the school environment and when we think about the rest of the urban environment. Everything that violates this kind of thing must be addressed by us adults and society. Like Mr Savio's good speech, these cases of sexual abuse, rape, and so on in Oulu and Helsinki have come to light in the media, which is, of course, an extreme example of how we have failed to protect our children and young people and have become the target of this kind. We Christian Democrats have been of the opinion and myself, when I am a specialist in gynaecological diseases and childbirth and I have met these patients and their parents for many years, one can say for decades that we are very much in favour of it, and I have long been talking about the fact that punishments for sexual offences across the board need to be tightened — and not just tightened up, but rather that we should and must ensure that these crimes are investigated as quickly as possible, so that there is no delay in the judiciary, the police department, but that these cases are investigated as quickly as possible and that decisions are taken. Of course, in this situation it must be said that, apart from better protecting our children and young people from such situations, if they have come, as is the case now, to an increasing extent, then there is a delay in allocating sufficient resources to allow children and young people and their loved ones to go through these terrible events. Although life does not end, as unfortunately happened recently in some young person through suicide, many children and young people who have been subjected to sexual violence, it has completely ruined the important aspect of life, as some have described that they feel that they are alive but still dead. If, even through long-term therapy, they can achieve some normal activities in an important area of sexuality, let alone enjoy this aspect of life, then there are many times a long way to go, and not all can do it at all. Then, with regard to the peace of growth and development of children and young people, including in the sexual sphere, I would like to draw attention to the school environment and the type of lecturers who have attended school in recent years. This is now getting closer to the transfigurations. Mr Torsti spoke in this regard and Mr Niikko spoke earlier. Children and adolescents, Block therapy: I see that it is a violation of the human rights of children.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u195	I'm sorry to have to remind you of the time here, but these are agreed rules of the game, so let's try to stick to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u196	Madam President! We have now entered a very sensitive area when we talk about the child and his sexuality and then about gender and gender identity. I am not an expert on this subject, but somehow I have come to understand that sexuality is something so beautiful and wonderful that it should allow it to develop in peace as the Creator originally thought. ♪ And when we have ♪ Even the Finnish National Board of Education has produced this kind of equality work as a skill class guide, which is the basis of which children in schools start under the age of 12, to give sexual education, to ask whether they are men, women, girls or boys, so I almost regard it as sexual harassment. Yes, you should let the child get excited about himself, his body, and find those things when the time is right. I don't think it's a good idea to go there too soon to tamper. A mother here recently called when her daughter came home from school and cried in the hall and said that my mother, who I am, said that I may not be a girl. I'll be wondering if we're going in some direction now that we'll be able to repair the damage later on. Mr President! I am now raising a completely different subject from the excellent report by the Ombudsman for Children to Parliament, which relates to disability legislation. Here, on page 191, we are going through disability legislation, and this is one area in which we have an enormous amount to catch. We have a relatively specific disability law on disability services and related diverse ancillary services, but few municipalities implement them. We have a growing number of lawsuits, complaints to the Ombudsman, the Chancellor of Justice, all of whom are related to disability services, and I think that the Commissioner for Child Welfare is now paying a great deal of attention to the fact that these issues should not be placed on the altar of the economy, but that these people should be given dignity and treated equally, as is the case with healthy people who do not have any physical deprivation. I hope that this too will be the subject of wider debate and action in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u197	Mr President! I met someone last night who works at a day care center. He said that a little boy came to him, tears in his eyes asked: “Am I a boy? “ I was shocked by this — and, of course, by this person who works in that day care centre too. He said, "You're a sore boy." This tells us how shocking the situation is for our young children to live in a situation where they are provided with information from all sides in every way possible that they are not girls or boys. This is shocking that we have this situation today. Wake up, dear friends, and take responsibility for these children of ours. They become hard - to - treat patients if their childhoods are ruined by such intimidations. Mr President! The second question raised in this debate arises from the fact that the Ombudsman for Child Welfare is indeed raising the Christian congregations on a stick and calling for their child work to be subject to separate supervision. My question is: are the representatives and are the parliamentary groups — the centre, the others here, the social democrats and the Greens — really of the opinion that the congregations are working so dangerously that it needs to be monitored separately, as the Child Affairs Ombudsman suggests?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u200	Mr President! Very good speeches have been made here specifically on the rights of children and on the development of children and on how to confuse their world with different ideas. I am a little concerned about the demands that are constantly being made on the children's world, that there is something wrong with them if they do not have access to such blockage treatments, for example, as Mrs Torsti of the Social Democrats would like to see such a development in this society. The demands and scares about having to do much more by sexual minority organisations, even in the children's world, to reduce the bullying of trans-human beings, as you mentioned, that in Ireland there has been a decrease — such as percentages and statistics of these people and other numbers, usually these statistics, when we go to study, are not very realistic, at least the studies in Finland have not been so far. But if you do not believe Mr Tanus, who spoke very well about this blocker treatment, then Mr Kaltiala-Heino himself mentioned that, according to him, the risks of early hormonal intervention initiated by blocking puberty are not sufficiently known. He also reminds us that sex hormone secretion or nonsecretion also affects the brain and thinking. And he states this: ‘The full question whether transneumatic blocker treatment is available,iswound,because a large part of the studies are not planned for treatment.’ Mr President! As I mentioned earlier, the identification of childhood with the opposite sex is lost in four out of five, so this is a transient development in puberty and sexuality, and now some children’s delegates in this world would like to receive special attention in order to get them, in a way, to ‘care’ according to his term. It must be said that for a long time something must have gone wrong in human development when people start seeing things this wrong. Why have we come to this situation? We know, as I mentioned earlier, that 2016 has quadrupled this search for gender identity studies for underage children. In 2017, there were over 200 young people. Well, why is this now, for example, in Tampere? Tampere Seta goes through all the eighth grade students every year, and they have been doing it for a few years, and at these times these numbers have also increased. They go there to educate in their own way about that sexual equality. Then again, over the last few years, there have been so-called [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u203	Thank you. — It is my wish that, when it is clear that time goes by, the representative can readily enter and continue to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u204	Mr President! I will not spend much more time on these trans- and gender issues, but I will just tell you that in the last two or three years there have really been more contacts from worried parents and worried teachers than in the last 22 years, and as an example of an under-school girl, a little similar to that of a representative: Mother calls — and in fact another case where a father calls from a very similar type — an elementary-school girl who comes home anxiously from school and asks if a mother, am I not a girl, and when a mother wonders, she asks if I am a lesbian. And when this mother calls, she says she didn't really know what to ask, and she asked, "Well, how could you do that now? The girl replied that when we had an hour at school that said that you can't know for sure if there's a girl or a boy or if there's something else, and if there's a lesbian or not, you can't know it until you've tried it. As a gynecologist over the years, I have treated a wide range of patients and all gender and sexual minorities and, you can say, all ages, from a few years of age to nearly 100 years of age. And I can say about sexuality and everything that's meant to be beautiful, that if we go out there and look for what I am, because that's when it's like having 16, 17, 18-year-old girls who come, that they've been through everything and they're not able, and I'm listening and I'm saying, "Oh, dear girl, you haven't really gotten anywhere near what should be in these areas of life, you've been through something else than what you should have been through at all." As I said, I have 25 years of experience in this profession. I am not spending any more time on this now, there are so many stories, but, as I said, we adults must ensure that our children and young people have peace of growth and development in all areas of physical, mental, sexual and personal identity, not only at home but also at school and around school. That is why I see that it is a violation of the human rights of children, that we go in there to disturb, to present things that do not belong there. I would also remind you that in our law — teachers are to follow the law — there is gender, gender identity and gender expression. There is no mention of gender diversity or of many genders, and so on. This has been brought in as a completely foreign ideology, and likewise in these equality guides and others — a lot of debate on this issue — there is no such thing as being at the heart of the curriculum for teachers. In recent times there has been some kind of amazing tendence in society, that when we have always spoken, that there are so many different kinds of girls that it is so long, now it has been narrowed down to certain types of girls, that if you don't fit that, then you are something else or you are genderless. Ladies and gentlemen, put aside this type of steam and quite misleading talk, and let us return to the time when it has been said that the gap between different girls and women is so long and so wide that it is suitable for girls and women of all sizes, all sorts of appearances, with all kinds of knowledge, or even those who do not feel very well in any way. Sex isn't an emotional thing. And the same is so long for boys and men that they fit in all the sizes and appearances and feel or even those who feel that they don't feel anything at all. We have sex in the law. There's two of them. Very rarely are babies born with something that has happened in their development to show signs of a somewhat more confused situation. In fact, a few words about what I originally wanted to make my second speech in connection with this report by the Ombudsman for Children: I see that parents bear the primary responsibility for raising their children and that the early childhood education and education provided by society should support it. In early childhood education and basic education, there is an increasing need for skills in social and family work and its integration into the educational and educational pathway. It is precisely this social support, knowledge of family work and support that many broken families need today. We also advocate the transfer of Christian cultural heritage and values in education. Daycare centres and schools must guarantee their students positive religious freedom, as we also have in the Constitution. The teaching of his own religion gives the students knowledge, skills and experiences that also provide him with elements to build his own identity and world view. Girls are allowed to be girls and boys boys, each in their own way, and this should not be destabilized by adults. We also think that Christian schools and kindergartens are an important complement to public services. As far as education is concerned — and I see that time is going on again — I think that, overall, more resources are needed for schools: less group sizes, and also more resources and support for individual consideration of diversity and, consequently, for the implementation of educational equality. Every person who attends comprehensive school must have sufficient literacy, writing and mathematical skills. Thinking about our children and young people and our basic education, we adults need to take care of both at home and at the school of teachers, that each of our children learns to read, count and write in a traditional way
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u205	Mr President! This 2018 report by the Ombudsman for Children is quite a broad package and would allow us to take up a number of points, as has already been done in part in this debate. Personally, Mr President, I would like to raise two specific points which I consider particularly important in the further development of child policy and in future solutions: the first is the poverty of families with children, and the second is the low birth rate in Finland. I think that these two, in particular — there are many others, but I personally would say that these two, in particular, are those to which attention needs to be paid. It is estimated that as many as 100,000 children live in poor conditions. Of course there are many kinds of poverty, different kinds of income problems. This can result in children not having access to such activities as hobbies, which is indeed a sad thing. We should assume that each child has the opportunity to have at least one hobby, and then, if necessary, clubs or society in one way or another should ensure this. Whether it's sports or culture or music or whatever it is, reading or modeling or whatever it is, but that even one hobby for a child or a young person would be a very valuable thing. With regard to poverty, the big decision is that the government will increase the minimum parental allowance by EUR 80 per month. It concerns the poorest families of young children and is certainly needed. Further efforts are also being made in home aid, and hopefully the municipalities will also offer families the opportunity that this will not just be the goal. But further action is certainly needed, and even after this period, the next government will have to consider what can be done. Could the lowest-income families receive any additional child allowance or otherwise take into account these poorest families? Of course, jobs are the most important thing, so that when there are people of working age and capable of working in the family, parents or even one parent would get a job. That would be a particularly valuable thing. Fortunately, this has moved forward this period. Then, Mr President, this question of the birth rate: we have people ageing in this country and the birth rate has fallen to the level of years of hunger. Everyone understands what it means to this nation in the future. If we want to take good care of people like Finns and Finland, then we need to find solutions to this issue. The problem is, I don't think we have a button here to put this thing right, but we do have some buttons. For example, a good reform of family leave, which is done on the condition of children and families, can help in this regard, the fact that the financial benefits of families with children are good enough, the fact that there is a positive prospect of stable jobs. There may be things like this that we may be able to have a positive effect on the birth rate. And somehow, Mr President, we need to:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u206	Mr President! I would like to raise one more withdrawal here, because it is quite timely, and it is related to income and social security. The regulation of income and social security is a complex whole, so understanding it is also difficult. It may be almost impossible for an individual family and child to determine what benefits and benefits they are entitled to under what circumstances. This is particularly emphasised when the need for support for a family or child is determined on more than one basis. The opportunities for vulnerable children and families to find out their rights are particularly low. There is a great need for adequate and timely advisory services. Legislation should better ensure the legal protection of the child and the family in situations where they need the help of society. I already have requests for help from citizens who simply do not receive the services they are entitled to under our social security system. They are rotated from place to place, and they are required to have different labels and tickets, and when they are unable to obtain them, they then fall out of their livelihood altogether. Now that this has moved to Kela, the advice is even weaker. One lady wrote that ‘the clock of 9men to the Office of theKelaan,the clock of 16am was notified that they would not be able to deal with my This cannot continue. Now we know that in the next parliamentary term, whoever is here, social security reform is certainly one of the most important issues for us. This report does provide an enormous amount of material for the direction to be taken so that those citizens who really need help can get it. It's getting so hard to get it. You have to have the most amazing computer skills that you can make and scan all the attachments in various papers and so on, and I have to say that we have quite a lot of interlopers coming in. Then, if we take these digitally isolated people — the elderly and then those people, even young people who have no skills or have no other failings, which is why they are unable to control digital devices — they will fall completely out of this society. We've got big business for next season, though.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u207	Mr President! I asked for the floor at the end first to correct the words that were placed in my mouth. I did not put forward a single point of view in relation to any minority, but merely stated the school health survey which, in the hearing requested by the Committee on Education and Culture, came up in relation to the trans-family, but it is the data that we now have available. But actually I am delighted that Mrs Kaikkonen has come to this debate. Indeed, at the beginning of the debate, it was said that it is very regrettable that we are discussing the first report of the Ombudsman for Children in history to Parliament tonight with a few representatives. And yet perhaps the big picture of this is the two questions: on the one hand, of course, the amount of data in the report as a whole, but also, on the other hand, the conclusion of such a certain underachievement of the welfare state in the overall welfare of children and young people, in participation and, for example, in poverty-related inequalities. The solution is the comprehensive presentation of the child strategy, and now that we are on the eve of a change of government, it is vital that we have such a broad consensus that we go in that direction, because that is what this society needs, that this underachievement should stop. I believe that this is such a party-political cross-border view and certainly the government already prepares itself for the fact that instead of perhaps picking up individual things that have been done or not done, this issue would begin to look at the strategic level that would be really important for society. Perhaps in these words I would also like to end, for my part, that the tone of the debate should not be individual issues, which are small in this as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u208	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u209	Mr President! I have therefore submitted a legislative initiative in which I propose that immigrants applying for a residence permit should have the opportunity to demonstrate their eligibility for residence on the basis of active and successful integration and to be granted a so-called "indoor visa". That is a brief summary of the substance of the matter. Indeed, the bill has received the name of the ingenuity of the idea that, at the moment, immigrants have little chance of demonstrating their own activity, which is, in a way, when applying for a residence permit, because, as it were, what they are doing or not doing is not so important in the eyes of the law at the moment. This is like a hand-out to people who show a sense of tenacity in wanting to be in Finland, possibly learning a Finnish language, getting to work, studying, starting a business. One example is that a young asylum seeker who has been very successful in a Finnish high school has learned the Finnish language in a short period of time and insists on applying to a higher education institution and repaying the contribution of the society that has been invested in him. In such cases, it is as if we are wasting our resources if we turn Finland away from such people who could bring us well-being and know-how. It is important to identify and take advantage of people with existing skills from immigrants. This therefore does not in any way limit the grounds for obtaining asylum. This doesn't take rights away from anyone. This brings such an element into the legislation, Article 52 of the Aliens Act, which reads: ‘A foreigner in Finland is granted a continuous residence permit if the residence permit is terminated without any obvious undueness to his health status, the links that have been created in Finland, the active division of the integration or the change of the individual cause,in particular taking into account the circumstances which The addition to this section is, in fact, those words ‘active and successful integration’, which this initiative wishes to take into account in the legislation and which it considers to be a It is important that we recognise that it includes very different types of people and very different types of groups, and because we hope that the people who come to Finland for us will be integrated and active, that is why I hope that Parliament will give its support to this issue and, in that sense, we will now be in a balanced position in Finnish immigration policy. I therefore hope that this will give rise to some debate here in the Chamber. Thank you to those representatives who are still able to be here this late at night.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u210	Mr. Speaker! We must now be quite careful not to increase the attractiveness of humanitarian immigration, Finland's attractiveness in that respect. Therefore, such extensions need to be considered very carefully. We have a serious situation in many ways because the security situation in Finland has deteriorated rapidly and significantly as a result of a failed immigration policy. Especially our kids, children, girls are in danger. We must therefore look at what is being done, from the point of view of improving the situation both for us and for the countries of origin and for the people who are in vulnerable conditions. Three years ago, a huge number of young, healthy men came to Finland. Many sold their homes and possessions there in the countries of origin, and the men then went on that dangerous journey and came here. The children, the women, the elderly and the sick were left there in the miserable conditions of war. They are those who need special support and security. Refugee camps are effective. I regret that they are needed, but when the amounts are millions, they are needed and the support provided through them is much more important than the addition of attraction factors to us, which I think is partly what this bill means. Today, government parties and parliamentary groups all seem to have made some decisions on immigration policy, and within the government there appeared to be forces that now call for measures which, a few weeks ago, were strongly opposed. This is, of course, positive, but when the government is influenced, I now expect that the government will then come forward with proposals that will actually be effective in this situation. The Finnish people expect measures from the government, not more attraction, but responsible measures to improve Finland's security and help these people in difficulty, those far away.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u211	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Elovaara, for bringing this bill here to Parliament and, as I see it, launching an intellectual and sensible debate on how we respond to the demands of this time and time. The word of this time is not a lynching mind, but a reasonable explanation of how we can get asylum seekers here or here at some point to integrate and separate those who do not fit into this country. We've got to get them out of here. Proper integration means what we have been discussing for three and a half years. We have not succeeded in integration and we have not taken integration in a sensible way to the end. Now Mr Elovaara has launched a debate in which people who want to integrate and integrate into Finnish society, and who they are, are rewarded for it in a transparent and transparent way. And those thugs, the punks, the rapists, will be removed from the land that doesn't belong here. That is the other side of this coin, and that is what we must accept. But it must be accepted that the person who comes here, who is good, wants to integrate, should be given points, opportunities, so that good people understand to stay in the country and the bad ones are eliminated. This does not endanger immigration in any way, but precisely improves security. And I continue to stress that I am a person of critical immigration and I want those people who are doing their bad things here and destroying our society to be excluded from Finland. We have had clear evidence that the people who have come here did not want to integrate. We have discussed this integration in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. We have had people there who talk about integration, its failure, and the fact that Finnish society, you know, spends two months, when an asylum seeker comes here, telling them only about their rights. They are told that you have the right to do so, you have the right to do so. But we tell you that you have an obligation to integrate and that if you want to integrate, we will reward you – you will become part of Finnish society when you accept the laws of Finnish society that this society really needs. In other words, I consider this bill to be a good one and I hope for a proper and cool relationship with this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u212	Mr President! Mrs Elovaara's proposal and initiative are very welcome, and thank you to Mrs Elovaara for taking this initiative. After all, in the recent debate and in many other debates in this Chamber in recent weeks and months, we have expressed concern that the birth rate in Finland has fallen, even in the recent debate it was said that the level of years of hunger was about the same. We know that there is a need for more people in Finland, and we should develop ways of getting precisely those who can help our descendants born in Finland and born in Finland to see Finnish society as good. On the other hand, we know that asylum seekers have many cases where it is genuinely difficult to assess whether they themselves meet the very strict criteria for obtaining asylum in law and international agreements. We also know that there are asylum seekers in Finland who have received a negative decision and then a compulsory return decision, and they have been returned to death — people who have been forced back from Finland have been returned to death. I believe that this model, which is in line with Mrs Elovaara's initiative, that people should be able to demonstrate their citizens' fitness by studying and working. I would now like to highlight one example of this: Last September, Yleisradio told about Hasan Khademi, who was born in Afghanistan, who has learned the Finnish language in a very fast time, receives eights, nines, tens for a certificate, for example Finnish as second language 9 and mathematics 9. He's been living in fear of being deported the whole time. This first case was carried out in September, and in October it became known that his complaint that the asylum application had not been accepted had been rejected, and then we will see if the Supreme Administrative Court will take the matter on board. In my opinion, this is a case in which people seem to be in every respect that for us, Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u213	Mr President! Mr Hassi gave a very good speech. ‘Love and frontiers’is the title of Christian Democrats, Both love and borders involve humanity, flexibility, but on the other hand both concepts also involve firmness and rigour and clarity. When it comes to asylum seekers, there are, of course, certain criteria which should, however, be clear, which should be properly addressed for everyone, and of course, decisions should be taken fairly and fairly in such a way that no one is sent to the risk of death. After all, we in the KD have been emphasising the quota refugee system for years, when the refugee camp itself goes through things, and especially in the case of women, children, the elderly, people with disabilities who cannot move, we have stressed that we should pay attention to those who are, as it were, the most vulnerable. On the other hand, we have talked a lot about how many more we might be able to help with the same amount of euro in the neighbouring regions, that is to say this aspect of the problem. But then, when Mr Elovaara has raised this issue and the issue of integration, it is also very important — and I have been talking about it for a long time — that when we have foreigners coming into the country there will be asylum seekers, so while we are teaching them the first Finnish words on the first day, education, integration not only in the language but also in culture should start, tell us what is going on here, and also tell us what is not going on here. Furthermore, considering that early communication is largely via interpreters, we should pay more attention to how interpreters interpret: whether we have this communication and interaction in such a way that the visitor understands what is at stake. And then to this vigour as such. Of course, we need to look closely at this initiative. On the other hand, of course, asylum seekers must have uniform decisions that there is a need for security. But on the other hand — just as Mr Hassi said and Mr Elovaara — when you are integrated, you have been trained and perhaps belong to the class we need here on all sides, and you could not only implement yourself but also be useful to society, so I think that we should think about what is the method, what is the title, what might be the way to come to Finland. After all, some people are able to get a job, get a work permit, and then get a residence permit, and some people are going to study anyway.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u214	Mr President! I looked at some information online — if this device stays open: We already have quite a lot to integrate and listen to these stories of a thousand and one nights. Here is a list of: ‘Multiculture Specialist,Immigration Coordinator,Interpretative Service Coordinator,Adult Interpreter,Cultural Pilot,Comparer,Immigrant Group Line Manager, Day Care Migrant Coordinator,Adaptation Worker,Integration Secretary, Multicultural Early Education Designer, Multicultural Education Designer,FinnishPractical Teacher, Short Course Manager,Adultary School Line Manager,Adultary Asylum Applicants Co-director, Multicultural Activist, Activist Migrant Trainer’ — what is this? —‘Multicultural Training Material Manager, And the list goes on. This was only a small part, but I read it anyway: ‘The President of the Council of Migrants,the Neighbourhood Mediator,the Integration Director,the Assistance Interpreter,the Assistant Interpreter,the Honorary Conflict Expert’. I dare not read this any longer, Mr President, but there has already been quite a lot of effort. Well, if a few hundred more posts are created to integrate them: we can now read the results of what has happened. It's no big deal. More will happen. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-15-ps-141.u215	Mr President! Thank you for those contributions. The idea of this bill is precisely that, when the resources and resources of society are used for immigration and related activities, this initiative confirms that this person who is applying for a residence permit from us, as well as paying back the help and resource he has received, by showing by the activity he is doing, that he wants to be an equal member of Finnish society and thereby also to work, study and return that tax money to us — because many here are also looking at this from this economic point of view. This is, in my opinion, mirrored in the previous speech by the fact that people are now specifically responsible for acting in such a way that they find their place in this society, and we want to help them to do so. In my view, in this way, there is a balance between the responsibility of both society and the individual for their own lives and the resources we spend on different issues, and I think that this is an initiative which, for example, should be welcomed by immigration critics, because this really requires of the person himself and enables him to demonstrate this successful integration. That may be a brief comment. It's great to send this initiative out!
