ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 39/2018 vp. The general discussion was closed at the meeting on 12 March 2019. The draft amending budget will now be examined in detail.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not sure that our scoreboard is currently operational. All we have to do is take the first vote, and that's where we'll see. If it doesn't work, we'll wait a little while and try to fix these.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u3	President! You've noticed that the other painting doesn't work, right?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u4	Yes. This is precisely our problem that we do not have a second table, but the second table works and the result of the vote will be visible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u5	I suggest we take a ten-minute break and we turn off these devices and then try again. There's some kind of technical problem here. Ten-minute break, please!
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u6	Timo Haraka's proposal 11, that is to say the one that was already voted on, will now be put to the vote again and will see if both of us are playing on the lights. If, from your point of view, the right side does not work, then we will continue to do so, because the results of the votes will, however, come here on the other side and they will also log on to our computers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u7	One of them really doesn't work, but the other one works, and I'm going to make an oral announcement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u8	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate ended on 11 March 2019 in the plenary session The debate, supported by Lauri Ihalainen Silvia Modig, has proposed that the bill be rejected and made a proposal for a statement in accordance with the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u9	First, we must vote on the adoption or rejection of a draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u10	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u11	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate ended on 11 March 2019 in the plenary session The debate, supported by Mr Immonen Laura Huhtasaari, has proposed that the 2nd bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u12	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 11 March 2019. In the debate, Ilmari Nurminen, supported by Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, has proposed that the legislative proposals be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u13	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate ended on 11 March 2019 in the plenary session The debate, supported by Mr Harakka Pia Viitanen, has been followed by four motions for statements in response to the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u14	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the proposals for statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u15	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 11 March 2019. In the debate, Mr Ilmari Nurminen, supported by Mr Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, has tabled two statements of opposition. In addition, Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, supported by Matti Sem, has submitted a proposal for a statement, which has been distributed to the representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u16	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the proposals for statements. The second draft statement contained in the report and Mr Nurminen's draft statement 2 relate to the same issue and are therefore put to the vote against each other. Other draft statements will then be put to the vote against the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u17	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate ended on 11 March 2019 in the plenary session The debate, supported by Hanna Halmemenpää Johanna Karimäki, has been followed by two objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u18	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u19	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 11 March 2019. In the debate, Mr Harakka, supported by Matti Sem, has tabled three statements of objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u20	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u21	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 36/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 12 March 2019. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u22	Mr President! I suggest that the article takes a form consistent with the protest of the Finns of Peru.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u23	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u24	Leena Meri, supported by Sami Savio, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u25	Mr President! I'm suggesting section two. in the draft law, a form in line with the protest of the Finns of Peru.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u26	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u27	Leena Meri, supported by Sami Savio, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u28	Mr President! I propose that Article 19: receives the form that the True Finns have presented, that is, that it will be removed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u29	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u30	With the support of Sami Savio, Leena Meri has proposed that the section be deleted.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u31	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 39/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 8 March 2019. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u32	Mr President! I would like to make an objection to this form.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u33	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u34	Kristiina Salonen, supported by Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto, has proposed that the article be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u35	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 28/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 11 March 2019. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u36	Madam President! I propose that Article 5 be amended in accordance with objection 2, which is also in line with the government's original draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u37	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u38	Mats Nylund, supported by Hanna Halmenpää, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u39	Mr President! I propose that Article 41a be read as follows: amend in accordance with objection 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u40	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u41	Mats Nylund, supported by Hanna Halmenpää, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u42	Mr President! I propose that Article 42 be read as follows: amend in accordance with objection 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u43	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u44	Mats Nylund, supported by Hanna Halmenpää, has proposed that the article be adopted in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u45	Mr President! When discussing item 8 with regard to objection 1, I intended to vote 'yes'.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u46	Paragraph 11 was intended to vote 'and'.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u47	It's the same as Niiko's.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u48	Mr President! In paragraph 10, I voted ‘no’ but I still want to be sure to indicate,as I think I was weighted but I’m not sure
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u49	Enter on the record.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u50	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 37/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u51	Mr President! The firearms law reform is poorly prepared and does not contribute to the cause of the Finnish shooting enthusiast and not to the defence of the country. The reform of the law started with the EU's completely absurd directive, which was adopted after the Paris terrorist attack. In the event of such an attack Isis murdered over a hundred people with Kalashnikov assault rifles smuggled from the Balkans, i.e. smuggled assault rifles from the Balkans. What is the significance of the law now enacted by this directive for the smuggling of illegal weapons? Nothing. Now, a deliberate attack has been carried out against Finnish citizens who engage in normal shootings by bullying them with a huge amount of bureaucracy and arbitrariness. Of particular interest is the fact that this law has been prepared by the National Coalition Party, which, with the support of the Centre Party and other parties, overturned the renovations of the Finns in Parliament. Are the Coalition Party and the Central Party against gunners who, however, represent a significant part of our people? Mr President! I would like to say a few more words about defence and the importance of shooting. In modern war, the armies of World War II and their mass armies no longer move. We are now facing significantly fewer but much better equipped and trained troops. Finnish defence is based on the reserve. In other words, these well-trained and well-equipped troops are mainly faced by the reservists. Here's an example of golf. If someone has taken a golf course five years ago, for example, and has to play against a professional or even an active enthusiast, the result is clear. It's the same with shooting skills. An active enthusiast shoots thousands of shots a year, and a racer shoots at least 10,000 to 20,000 shots. The only difference between a reservist and a professional soldier is that when you may feel bad about golf, the reservist loses his life. With its own money, the significance of the armed reserve is therefore very significant, because only the shots that have been fired mean, and this hobby should be supported rather than made more difficult. Mr President! Finally, on the bullying of gun collectors: I simply do not understand why gun collectors are being bullied by a ban on firearms. I would like to know whether the government has any other logic than bullying collectors, because at least I cannot see it. Mr President! I hope that the next government will correct the shortcomings in this law, but what a number of people are correcting that law and in which direction will survive after the elections. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u53	Mr President! From the outset, the Finns have opposed the entry into force of the Arms Directive. It makes it difficult for hunters, gun enthusiasts and sports shooters to operate categorically, as well as gun collectors. Similarly, the draft laws also make it difficult for reservists to operate. The legislative proposals also make regulation difficult to understand. The same points have been raised both in the drafting of the law and in the expert opinions received in committee. In connection with this package, the Finns of Finland will be tabling amendments to the report at second reading as well as five statements for adoption. Mr President! With regard to the amendments to the paragraph, I would like to make the following point: Article 19a, the prohibition of manufacturing a firearm, part or ammunition in certain situations, is problematic. Paragraph 1 prohibits the carrying out, without authorisation, of matters which are otherwise subject to authorisation. The need for a piece is questionable. In any case, part of paragraph 2 should be delineated. It states: ‘In the case of a cartridge,it is only for personal use with a gun that is controlled by The prohibition to this extent is not only unnecessary but also impossible to control because the tools needed for charging — presses and bolts — and essential components — casings and bullets — are not regulated but freely available. Regulated components, such as gunpowder and detonators, are not cartridge-specific. Paragraph 2 would also prohibit a ammunition enthusiast from downloading cartridges into a weapon, such as a pocket gun, which he is not authorised to possess or borrow, but which he is able to use as a so-called controlled use, for example, at a firing range. Article 42b, the decision, the validity of the authorisation and the conditions of the authorisation. Paragraph 2 of the Article states: ‘If the arms licence has been granted on the basis of the approval of a collector, the licensing authority may include in Mr President! It is essential that the characteristics and functionality of the weapons included in the collections can be tested. There's no basis for a cease-fire. This sentence should be deleted or at least amended so that the authority is obliged to provide specific case-by-case justifications for a shooting ban. Article 8 and Article 44a, pocket gun. Here the definition of pocket gun has been simplified, which is justified. However, the whole concept of a pocket gun is unnecessary, since the so-called normal size pistol is practically just as easily concealed. Prohibition of pocket weapons does not increase safety. On the other hand, there are a large number of illicit small pistols acquired a long time ago, which could be subject to supervision if owners had the opportunity to apply for holding permits. The ban on pocket weapons encourages the continuation of illegal possession. Mr President! Article 45, the conditions for a natural person with regard to an arms permit. In the case of A7 rifles, authorisation is conditional on a 12-month hobby, as required by the Directive. However, in the case of small arms, the requirement is 24 months. There are no objective criteria for different leisure time requirements, but they should be harmonised for 12 months. Finally, Article 67, withdrawal of authorisations. The conditions for withdrawal of the licence have been specified in accordance with the Directive. However, in paragraph 1(5) the words ‘or their behaviour’ should be deleted. The current wording leaves too much room for arbitrary interpretations and excesses, which is not a good thing for legal certainty. Mr President! As I said earlier, in addition to these changes, the Finns of Peru will make five further statements for approval. I am not going to mention them in this context, but we will come back to this at second reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u54	Madam President! The issue of the Firearms Act is now in this great Chamber — a long process that started in 2015, when the terrorist attacks in Paris took place and the European Union was quite panicking about tightening up the arms legislation. The EU Commission put forward a proposal with a rather rapid timetable to ban or at least severely restrict the use of military-like, self-charged firearms. I have been allowed to be in this process a little like the President of the Reservite League and, of course, as a representative of the House all the time. In order to make this Arms Directive so that it does not unduly harm Finnish gun enthusiasts, Finnish reservists, the maintenance of Finnish reservist shooting skills, the maintenance of field capability, has been hard work done. It was lobbyed by ministers at the end of Brussels, both by the then Minister of Interior Petteri Orpo and by the Minister of Defence Jussi Niinistö. European parliamentarians were well informed, and they worked to make Finland's position on our system heard. We as parliamentarians also visited the various formations there, and, among other things, the Reservist League approached all the Members of the European Parliament, the then European Parliament, Vicky Ford, who was the author of the report in this law. In other words, Finland has been strongly lobbying for the fact that this directive did not become such that it would prevent us from shooting. When these negotiations started with the Commission as well as with the European Parliament, Finland was very strongly involved by both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence in bringing its own expertise to how the directive can also be transposed into Finnish national legislation and how its framework conditions meet our reserve requirements. Well, this is short of this history. We are now at a time when this is being implemented into our national legislation. This process of transposition into national law has actually gone from last spring until last autumn before it came to Parliament for an official reading, and perhaps a few points I would like to make. This will enable the whole of our reserve, 900,000 reserve members, for the reservists, to be the number from which we can obtain permission for a reserve rifle. In other words, our reserve has been taken into account here. That does not mean that each of them will be able to obtain a permit for weapons in the future, it goes through strict processes, as has been the case so far, but this is the potential group. There is no desire to limit it, and this is an extremely important issue. The second point I would like to point out is that when we talk about active reservists, such as members of the Reservist Union or members of the Reservioper Union who are engaged in the SRA, i.e. the applied reservist shooting, they go under this shooting exception, which in practice allows them to continue their activities as they have done so far. In other words, these two important elements have been able to get into our national legislation, both for the reservists and for this sports shooting exception. All in all, at least I myself have had the starting point that we should go down the road to the smallest of these, so that we meet the conditions of the directive which are there, but we will bring it into our own national legislation so that the damage to action is minimised. This is what people wanted to do. I do not deny that there are such problems that come now, for example, with regard to the size of the boxes. It will certainly require action, it will make it a little more difficult, but it will also be possible to move on from this. I would just like to remind you that, when this is one of the terms of the directive, we do not, Mrs Packalén, unfortunately have very many options here. If we now failed to implement this, if we now rejected this, this would go to the next government, and I do not think there would be any better basis for a government that understands over the reservists, the gunmen and the shooting in general than there is now. So I wouldn't risk it under any circumstances. I would like to finish by saying that when we talk about arms legislation, we should always remember that our reservists, our hunters, are obedient people. This loyal group wants to handle weapons safely at the firing range. It is a community that controls one another and this community should not be hindered. That is why we, who have had any contact with this, have wanted this to be taken as far as possible. I would also like to mention that there was also a risk that the so-called community permits would no longer have been obtained by the Reservoirs, but that will also be possible in the future, which means that many problems have been remedied. In addition to that, there are also claussults that old collectable weapons can continue to be collected. This problem, which I admit, is reflected in these boxes, in the size of the boxes and in the scope of the licence, but, nevertheless, with this legislation we must now move forward. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u55	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! Prior to this, Mr Savola went through this matter quite thoroughly and his problem and, on the other hand, the way in which he has dealt with Parliament during these years. After all, the terrorist attacks that have taken place in Europe and the European Union's decisions to take measures to prevent or prevent them, and I myself am very critically approaching this type of EU regulation. The regulation from above, which is also here, has been very challenging for us because such an arrangement does not take account, for example, of the different situations in the countries of the European Union. For example, we are in a very different situation for many European countries, for example from the point of view of our basic defence solution, and this has made it very difficult and difficult to bring this type of regulation into line with each EU country's own legislation sensibly. We did good and thorough work in the Committee on Defence, and in fact our opinion on the Committee on Defence was unanimous, that is to say the opposition, including the Finns. In other words, through our thorough work in committee, we said the things that we unanimously sent to the Administrative Committee so that the government and opposition parties were involved in this opinion. The special features of the Finnish defence system are taken into account here, as Mr Savola went through above: the reserve derogation, the defence anomaly and also the hunting and shooting sports which were not part of our special discussion in the Committee on Defence, but were part of the governing committee, but we were also concerned about it. In fact, to some extent they go on vacation, or at least they often touch the same people, and that is why, of course, we were concerned about them here too. We are fulfilling the conditions of the directive here, so to speak, at the minimum level, and that has been what has been sought and why this has been twisted and sought a solution for so long. There has been good cooperation here across government-opposition boundaries to find these issues. The Committee on Defence therefore finally considered the Arms Directive to be in favour of being brought to Finland in this way as the EU requires of us. From the point of view of the Defence Committee's industry, the key element of the proposal is the so-called reserve-based derogation, i.e. the possibility for an active reserve-holder to obtain an A-category firearm on the basis of the pool's shooting training. The Committee on Defence stressed that the Government's proposal does not propose a mass authorisation of A-category firearms, but, as Savola pointed out above, the whole group of our 900,000 reservists, who have the opportunity to obtain this from national defence purposes, is involved in this. This was one of the most important things to make progress on this whole. The consultation procedure proposed in the proposal would therefore fulfil the obligation of the Arms Directive to grant licences on an individual and exceptional basis, and this is a particular deviation from our defence and reserve forces. The Committee on Defence also noted that the maintenance of the reserve's ammunition skills depended largely on self-employed shooting training in Finland, both in the case of invested and uninvested reservists, and that the different shooting activities and exercises are large-scale within the National Defence Training Association and various defence organisations, and we stressed that voluntary national defence activities are not a matter of ordinary social voluntary activity, but of law-based activity. The Committee on Defence welcomed the fact that the proposal would contribute to the development of the Defence Training Association's military capability training and to the continuation of the active shooting training of reserve personnel in the future. We considered further work to be important that the regulations and other standards on the application of the law ensure that at least the current level of the firearm is maintained, and we also suggested to the Administrative Committee that this should be followed up, i.e. an overall assessment of the functioning of the new law within two years of the entry into force of the amendments to the Firearms Act. This box issue is the only bigger problem at the moment, and it must of course be followed up to the end of what other EU countries, for example, are doing about it. I have given myself the impression that some EU countries have challenged and separated themselves from this issue, and we must also be prepared to do so. But I definitely believe that if this preparation has now been made with the people of the city centre, the assembly, for a long time and then finally with the blues, and, as I described in the Committee on Defence, beyond the government-opposition limits, I would not go on leaving this directive, at least in the context of this Gallup situation, without putting it into effect and leaving it for any future government to consider. We have had good defence-minded, defence-willing parties in the government, and we have done as good as these EU framework conditions have allowed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u57	Mr President! The Commission presented its proposals in the aftermath of the Paris terrorist attacks in autumn 2015. The Commission justified its proposal in a general order and referred to recent terrorist attacks. However, terrorist attacks have used illegal military weapons smuggled into the EU, which are not affected by legislation. In the opinion of the Finns Party, this proposal should be re-prepared. Mrs Packalén and Mr Immonen made very good speeches here on the grounds of our objection, but, of course, within the limits of time, Mrs Immonen simply mentioned our five statements, but did not have time to read them out, so I shall now read them, so that they will also be read out separately: 1) ‘The Commission requires that the government immediately engages in measures to review and recast the Ampum weapons law,that the (2) ‘The Commission requires the Government to immediately become involved in measures to dispose of weapons-specific (3) ‘The Board of Directors requires that measures be taken to ensure that the Government’s proposal 4) ‘The Commission requires the government to take action to amend the Ampuma Arms Act,so that the text in the 5) ‘The Commission requires the government to become involved in measures to ensure that,in the future,a new and equivalent weapon may continue to be This objection is fully read as the conclusion of the report, and I hope that Parliament will agree with this, because this is an extremely important issue for us and we Finns know best what works here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u58	Madam President! Representative Huhtasaari, just like the Finns of Peru, suggested that this should be re-prepared. I would now like to hear whether you believe that this bill should now be rejected. If we now reject it, it would go to the next government that might decide something in the government programme negotiations and then re-establish this legislation. I think there is a very serious risk here if this is the case, because on this basis, however, we have similarly wanted to do this legislation with the lowest possible adverse effect for Finnish gun enthusiasts, but what I know about this debate in this house and in this Chamber, there are very great ambiances, especially on the left side, that this legislation on arms should be tightened considerably more than this one, which would mean that after that we would not be able to shoot at any one of those kinds, or can hardly say ‘any of them’,but especially with weapons that are spoken about in this directive.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u59	Mr President! Representative Savola has a point in the sense that there are mostly well-prepared things here. But the Finns are of the opinion that the requirements of the directive can be met by registering existing licensing practices in the law and by making large-capacity boxes subject to authorisation or bound to an arms license. So the Finns see that this could be made better. What the next governments will do — of course they can change anyway, but the government can always bring a new proposal and even dismantle it. But the Finns of Peru want this presentation to be better prepared.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u60	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u61	Mr President! I would like to comment on this recent debate to the extent that the Finns of Finland have amendments and statements for this, so that they could improve this law if they were adopted in Parliament. To this start, it should be possible to lighten the mood and say that the law is not, however, or this report, as such, is a wolf when even the Hundred Committee and the Peace League have bothered to send a shepherd's letter to all the Members of Parliament on this matter, in which this report is barked up. Well, there's got to be some sense in that. But if it's not quite a wolf, is it a gold jackal? It's possible. Mrs Packalén, Mr Immonen and Mr Huhtasaari have already pointed out very well the shortcomings in this report, which I warmly support in correcting with the amendments and statements made by the Finns. The good thing about this report is, of course, that much of the reserve operations have been taken into account. However, the question remains whether we are more papal in the direction of the EU than the Pope himself for a change. So do we expect the EU to demand something to be done and do it without the EU actually demanding it? Or have we tried this issue against the European Court of Justice, for example, when it comes to these particular boxes, which have shown in previous speeches that other countries are a little grumpy about them? All in all, I think this process is a very sad example of what EU membership means to us Finns at its worst. We are being dictated to do things, and the best we can do about them is some sort of victory in the fight and a minimization of losses, as many here have done for us. It can't be this way. Are we an independent country? In what way does it belong to a common market like the EU that we are being subjected to dictates about our firearms, our hunting and even our defence? The EU is not going to defend us, and so I do not think it is necessary for it to intervene in our defence. My own line and the line of the Finns are clear: Aselaws are already too strict in Finland. There should be no further tightening, no more from the EU, no more from the EU as a supposed EU supplement to Finland, or at national level. It is not just a question of reservers; it is also a question of gunners and hunters. There is already a major problem with how to replace the elderly with new hunters for game management and regulation of deer and large-scale predators.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u62	Madam President! The birth of this bill dates back to the European Union. In time, as a result of the Paris terrorist attacks, the EU began to draw up a new Arms Directive, imagining that a more stringent policy of possession and, in practice, the seizure of legal weapons would somehow contribute to security. In this way, this perspective is amazing for a shooting enthusiast, because in Finland in particular, shooting and gunfire are statistically more law-abiding and blameless people in Finland. Therefore, the first versions of the draft directive and even the first version of this law in Finland seemed unreasonable to Finns. It was clear that there are no problems in the Finnish arms licensing system and in shooting enthusiasts that the EU thought they would have. That is why the draft law has also been prepared by the Minister of the Interior, Mr Mykkänen, and some of the MPs of the government parties along the way, in such a way as to minimise its impact on the practice of shooting and hunting and on the defence of the country. We now have an extraordinary process behind us here in Parliament, in which, if this expression is allowed, a task force composed of representatives of the government parties, has been working on this proposal and reshaping it in various stages. There have been many versions. This work under the guidance of the government parties has been carried out in cooperation with the Reservists and other organisations here in Parliament. This task force here in Parliament was formed by representative Reijo Hongisto, representative Mikko Savola — and I was also honoured to be part of this group. What was important was that EU control does not affect hunting, shooting or voluntary national defence, or, if so, it must be as small as possible. On this basis, this task force acted, and in cooperation with the Minister for the Interior, Mr Mykkänen, this bill has now been brought here to be decided. Among other things, the aim of the EU directive was to get all so-called dangerous weapons out of civilian use. Such a weapon is, for example, a traditional self-loading, repeated - fire - shooting reserve rifle with a large box. Among other things, such a requirement was completely rejected. In practice, anyone who engages in serious shooting or seriously in national defence training has the opportunity to continue their hobby as before. This reserve anomaly is very interesting and valuable. The entire pool that can be invested is covered by a reserve deviation. All of them — some 900,000 people at the moment — have the opportunity to make use of it. Of course, automatic licences cannot be obtained, but voluntary national defence training can also qualify as the owner of a large-scale reserve weapon. Mr President! There is now a historic change in this bill. In fact, the bill recognizes the Finnish national defence law. We are talking about the obligation to defend the country, but now we can also talk about the right to defend the country. The right to own and use a large-looped reserve weapon is enshrined in the Act to a person who passes a specific qualification path. I would like to point out that such a right has never existed under national law. And let me repeat this once again: for the first time in this law, a Finnish member of an investment-able reserve has, in principle, the right to obtain permission to acquire, own and fire arms. I consider this entry to be very important in terms of the training of defence capabilities and the development of defence skills. If a person is not part of an investment-able reserve, i.e. he has not visited the army, he can shoot a gun with a long large box on a hobby basis, on a shooting basis, and also take part in national defence training exercises in that way. There were already speculations that, although this proposal is not necessarily complete, whether it should now be rejected or not. I think that this should be accepted now. Time's running in the hourglass. EU sanctions are starting to blow, Finland is being fined for this, and I would not like to leave this to the future parliament, but the time for the adoption of this good bill is now, as a rule.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u63	Madam President! I myself will be tabling an amendment to this paragraph, but I would like to draw attention to this need. When we heard the police government and the ombudsmen, their common concern was that the more weapons are stored and stored in weapons lockers and so on, the greater the chance that the weapons will fall into the wrong hands while we have these criminals here. That is why we thought it would be good if this amount were limited, that the quantity that reservers could have of these weapons would be in line with this amount of investment in the wartime, and that it would then significantly reduce the total number of dangerous weapons. So this is what I've been getting closer to. I myself do shooting and hunting, and I know that when we talk about guns, all weapons are dangerous, but then machine guns with long boxes are extremely dangerous, and their falling into the wrong hands — it must be very careful and careful to keep them out of the hands of all criminals. That is why we saw that such a change would be necessary here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u64	Madam President! I would just like to remind you now of the maintenance of field eligibility, which is rightly part of our entire reserve, which is our strength. Our reserve totals 900,000. This is the potential group from which we can then apply for these permits, obtain the exemption, so to speak, to obtain the permission to receive this reserve rifle. It's not automation. This would be a very big problem if this were for a mere reserve of 280,000 men and women. It would only be the potential group that could apply for these permits. I would also like to remind you that a large proportion of the crimes, including those from police backgrounds, are committed with illegal weapons, just like the terrorist attacks that were committed in Paris. They were made with illegal weapons. And now the whole idea is to restrict the activities of obedient, legitimate gun enthusiasts, and this must be as small as possible, which is what this legislation aims to achieve.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u65	Let's take representatives of Semi, Kopra, Hongisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u66	Madam President! That is right, these criminal activities are carried out with illegal weapons, but they are usually stolen from somewhere, and the more weapons we have in the weapons lockers, the more likely it is, in the view of the police government, that weapons may be found in criminal hands, and that is a very difficult situation. At least their statement had this kind of entry there.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u67	Mr President! Mr Semi, in a certain way, of course, draws attention to the fact that weapons are being stolen and committed in crime. Then they become illegal when the weapon has been stolen from the legal holder. But is it, then, the right solution for categorically banning the possession of weapons? We have legislation which obliges the holder of the licence to keep the weapon carefully so that it cannot be stolen, and in practice this means that if there is a gun at home, there must be a weapons locker that must be locked and so that it cannot just be taken from there. However, according to my information, the police do not have any control over the safekeeping of the weapons of the enthusiasts — only if there is a significant number of permits or if there is a larger activity. And here perhaps we could be sharpened so that the police too would pay more attention to how weapons are kept. But, in principle, we should not deny but allow this wholesome hobby to be carried out by as many people as possible, and then look to it that the weapons have been carefully locked up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u68	Mr President! Just as Mr Semi said, all weapons are dangerous. When the weapon is in the wrong hands and the will of the author is in such a way as to want to do something bad with it, all weapons are dangerous. As Mr Savola said there, we have one-time automatic weapons for reservist activities, it is precisely so that if you have the opportunity to obtain a possession license for this kind of weapon, then the police always carry out its license management. That does not mean that it is automation and that if a person has an investment in wartime, he would be permitted to do so. The police carry out a very detailed examination of the permit, and when it comes to these weapons that are suitable for military use, it is very precise. Representative Kopra there stated that the police should monitor these detentions further. Let me just say that when a police officer comes into the homes with home alarms and so on, then, of course, the police will pay attention to these. Unfortunately, however, the police's resources are not enough to make house calls and to monitor the detention of weapons separately.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u69	Then let's go on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u70	Mr President! Indeed, this is a government proposal proposing to amend the firearms law, the law on voluntary defence and the law on military service, and the background is that the amendment will put into practice the amendments to the Arms Directive. As several honourable Members have said in this debate, the background is the EU directive, which left after the terrorist attacks in Paris when the EU went to demand stricter arms legislation in its Member State. This Firearms Act would provide for the monitoring of firearms licence holders and a regular review of the licence and would also include a provision to check the identity of the gun buyer and the licence in the context of distance trade. The provisions on the marking of the Firearms Act would be amended to specify the provisions on the marking and set a time limit for making the marking. The definition of arms brokers would be added to the law. This legislation has been prepared for a couple of years, and now that last winter the Committee on Administrative Affairs started to deal with it, it naturally raised debate, feelings and facts on the other hand. However, the good thing about this proposal is that it identifies matters in the field of defence, Finland's special status, the reservists, as well as both the athletes and the hunters, and the requirements of this directive will be met but will not go too far... There is, among other things, this reserve derogation, voluntary national defence and then these capabilities and supervision of the voluntary defence and the investable person. These are big things when you think that we have about 900,000 worth of investment, that is, big numbers. And as indicated in previous speeches by Mr Copra, it is also possible here, in a certain way, to identify and recognise that, on the basis of that right of defence, man also has the opportunity to engage in and engage in shooting activities. In this context, I would like to thank you again for all the feedback, the various sparrings and the posts I have received on this matter over the past year as a member of the Administrative Committee and as the leader of the Group of the Coalition Party there. Not all have I been able to answer, but the amount of feedback that has come shows that this issue is very diverse and also evokes different emotions. Personally, I think that the weapon is not the one who kills, but the person behind the gun and how he behaves. Of course, it is important that the authorisation should ensure that the weapons are where they are supposed to be and that the type of control is that. After all, we also have an electronic licensing system for arms licensing in place earlier in this period. Unfortunately, it was not possible to introduce it at the end of last year, because our systems are not yet at that level, but it has now been laid down in such a way that it will come into force from the beginning of next year, i.e. from the beginning of 2020. But also, when much has been heard about these matters in the Committee on Administrative Affairs during this period – we actually had the last meeting of the Administrative Committee today, and the committee advisor said that we had, now, 450 meetings during this period, that is to say, there have been many issues of internal security – I am concerned, however, that in the future, in the 2020s, the Finnish Parliament will probably be called upon to take action on how we can also get different types of unmanned, mobile bulls, which can also be classified as weapons under legislation and authorisation. In other words, they are already being made in that world, they are able to move unmanned and remotely, and they can also be classified as weapons, and it is important that we also know how to prepare for this in the future. At the moment, however, technology is developing so fast that, in most cases, legislation is dragging late. Finally, for the first time, I myself have been in a biathlon sports camp somewhere, perhaps under the age of 10. My father was a biathlon coach in South Ostrobothnia for probably 20 years, and if you've shot a mini-gun in it at the age of 10 for the first time, then somehow you've got a realistic idea of what it is and how to deal with it. But all in all, I still support the speeches made by colleagues who were here earlier: it is important that we get ahead of ourselves in the coming week by this Parliament. The government base of the Coalition Party, the Blues and the Centre Party, and the Finns of Peru also in the first part, has been a good and realistic government base to put into practice this directive and new firearms laws forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u71	Madam President! Mr Kopra and Mr Savola have spoken well here. As was said, when this draft law came to us for the first time, it was indeed very different from what it is at the moment. In this group of three, the matter has been reconciled and negotiated, and Mr Mykkänen was also involved in it. On my side, too, I note that we were able to get this processed into a much better form than what it started to be. But, Mr President, there are still a number of such points here, and I would like to highlight the monitoring system set out in the committee's report. The report states: ‘The weapons directive obliges Member States to set up a monitoring system for armslicence holders in order The monitoring system may operate on a continuous or intermittent basis.’ And that is what the directive obliges us to do. I would point out that this firearms licensing practice has already been very well organised in Finland, and in many other countries the regulation of the arms licensing system is much less effective and less effective in Finland. We have a long tradition of arms legislation in Finland, and this makes it very strange that, when legislation is categorically tightened at EU level, Finland is already tightening its already strict arms legislation. In view of the fact that the police are already monitoring in real time the executions of a person who holds a gun, if he commits, for example, a serious drunken driving or assault and the police write an investigation report about it, it will be known to the licensing administration the next day. And it is known that, if this has been done, the person will then be asked to the police department for hearing and will also be discussed about these firearms permits. That is why, when I know the scarce human resources of police services, mainly in the area of licensing, I am surprised that we are doing something like tårta på tårta, another piece of legislation on top of this already existing legislation. As has been said in many speeches, attempts have now been made to get as close to these requirements of the directive as they can and can be. And, as Mr Savola said in his speeches, if this government does not now accept this bill in this coalition, then I personally see it as a considerable threat that if this is left on the table and watered down and the next government starts working on it again, the bill may be even harsher for shooting enthusiasts and reservists. So along with the teeth and the steep edges: it could have been better, but perhaps there is still some way to live with this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u72	Madam President! Let me remind you of this whole process that, when we started negotiating an exceptional solution, for us, the exceptional solution was precisely this unique defence system of ours, which is not understood in Central Europe when they no longer have universal military service and reserve-based forces, who are also self-regulating. So this was our main message about it, and on this basis we have reached this exceptional solution and this solution, that the impact on national legislation is as small as possible for us. We must applaud across party lines for the fact that, when this process started and, among other things, in the large committee, we denied the Home Secretary Petteri Orpo at the time, they were unanimous protests, that this was unacceptable as the Commission's original proposal and that we should be able to negotiate a better solution and that it was possible to do so. In this whole long-term perspective, a number of people and parties have been involved. They deserve a thank you. Special thanks are due to the Reservist organisations, the Reservist Federation, the Reservi Officers' Federation, the Federation of National Defence Guilds, whose expertise along the way was indisputable, in addition to the ministers — Jussi Niinistö and the Interior Ministers Orpo, Risikko and Mykkänen — and their headquarters, in particular the special assistant Juha Martelius of the Ministry of Defence, who has been on this subject and brought expertise and has also been a link to the end of Brussels, and of course this task force, of which Mr Kopra mentioned. Let me just say that without the work that was done from last year's spring to autumn, this proposal would also look quite different for the shooting enthusiasts, so with this motion forward. This is the best thing we can do in this Parliament, and this is, however, the way that we continue shooting in the whole country by reservists, sports shooters, hunters and so on, and that is what I think is the main thing. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-13-ps-176.u73	Mr President! While there was some confusion in previous speeches, I would now like to make the record clear that the Finns of Peru do not object to the rejection or transfer of this law to the next Parliament. If this Parliament is not the greatest good for a gun enthusiast or a hunter, then it is probably the least evil, here, even if it refers to that protest by the Left Alliance, which would go on to restrict the rights of law-abiding citizens by using as a stick horse the statements made by officials of the Police Government and the Interior Department who are reasonably chronically hostile to weapons. No doubt this would be the case during the coming reign if there was any belief in the polls. In our protest, we have tabled amendments to the articles which could now be corrected, and statements would oblige future governments by Parliament, whatever it weighs on it, to correct these other issues which are now being left open and can be amended within the framework of the directive.
