ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would now ask those Members who wish to put a question to the Minister to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u2	The first question is asked by a representative of the Socialist Group in Parliament. — Congressman Rinne, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u3	Mr President! Finnish public health care and special care in particular is the best in the world. This can now be seen by personal experience, deep chest voice. The Sote reform had to correct those things that are broken — precisely to correct those that are broken. In the reform of the government, however, the position of carers remained at the feet of the coalition and the power play of the centre and the profit-making efforts of private companies. Tens of thousands of dedicated nurses deserve better. Now is the time to increase the number of nurses and doctors, the care staff, and to see to it that better working conditions cover the lives of these people and that wages corresponding to the demandingness of work are fulfilled. Mr Orpo, how does the government intend to ensure that the working conditions of the carers are improved to the level that requires the importance of the work and its appreciation? —Deputy Minister Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u4	Madam President! First of all, welcome back, Congressman Rinne! Indeed, Finland has many of the best health care in the world, special care, special social services and basic services, but unfortunately it does not happen everywhere in Finland. We have too many regional differences, we have too long queues where people have to queue, wait for treatment. And since no one has yet improved in the queue, it has therefore been so important that, for the past three years, efforts have been made together to repair social and health services, to modernise them and to meet the tough challenges ahead. This work must continue. We all know that the reform of social welfare and health services, which provides the basis for the good social welfare and health service production we have in Finland and for good services, presents major challenges. It is currently in the hands of Parliament, and I am sure that in the next few days, perhaps tomorrow, we will have more detailed information on how to move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u5	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — Representative Rinne continues, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u6	Mr President! Minister Orpo, I was talking about the working conditions and salary of these people, about how these people's affairs are better organised in this change, during the transition, so that the better care can be given to them as well. It is these low-income carers who are particularly seriously affected by the government's holiday allowance cuts. There will be new threats: your party has talked about reducing the general commitment of collective agreements to wage regulations only on the private side.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u9	Madam President! First of all, when I said in my speech that Finland has the best social and health services in the world, it is done by Finnish professionals, both nurses and doctors and other staff who care for our sick people or the elderly in these hospitals and hospitals. Their work is everything. Our task is to create a framework for them to do their work under the best possible conditions, with the right working conditions today, with good management rules, where, for example, nursing staff can focus on the most important, namely caring for people, elderly people, sick people, ensuring the best possible care for them. We all agree in this Chamber that we need more and a lot of medical staff and professionals in the social and health services. We have started work to pave the way for the next government programme and government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u10	Mr President! This is an essential question: where do we get the additional staff? If we look, SuPer has told us that we have 30,000 people who are care professionals but have moved on to other tasks. According to THL figures, we have over 70,000 people who are care professionals but have moved on to other tasks. I dare say that one of the reasons for this is excessive periodic work, which could now have been corrected by the Working Time Act, but the Government's Working Time Act extends the use of this periodic work to other sectors, such as the social sector, where we will soon have the same problems on that side. This is also a question of equality from the point of view that we male-dominated sectors work in three shifts and receive evening allowances and night allowances, but when we come to the care sector they are done in a flexible way, which means that we are missing out on these additions. Don't you think it's time to put in place a report to give up the periodic work?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u11	Madam President! Seriously, the Working Time Act is in the feedback debate today. It has now been discussed in depth in the committee in Parliament, and I admit that it is a very challenging law. Its idea is to bring working time and work into line with the challenges of the 2020s. After it was written, we began to get contacts from different sources that this should not apply to us and that this should apply to us. This question of scope has been well known in the Ministry. We have tried to build this in a balanced way and also to meet the requirements of the EU Working Time Directive, the ILO and the European Social Charter. This is the frame we've been working on. It has certainly not been an easy exercise. I take seriously this proposal that these should be considered in the light of how diverse it is to work in these times.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u12	Mr President! The Minister is talking a little different now. In other words, the question of the working time law is whether work is autonomous and whether people are covered by the Working Time Act or not, but when it comes to periodic work, it is women-dominated sectors and care work there. If your answer was that you are prepared to take seriously the attempt to abandon the periodic work and to launch such a study at the Ministry, then I am extremely pleased and I would like to see an answer to that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u13	Mr President! Before I begin to draw together what is the conclusion, then the matter needs to be settled, and always to sort this out I have the capacity. But the fact that we begin to make the end result here, to decide it in advance, is a different matter. I know that in these periodic work areas periodic work may also be carried out in various types of support measures, and this provision is now being clarified in such a way that these interventions must be tasks which are necessary to carry out the activities. There has been an attempt to build this in such a way that it meets these needs as well as possible, but I admit that there is still something left to be done here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u14	Mr President! Yes, I must say that the government could have done better on these issues, and I believe that I am not just speaking on my own behalf. Forced law package, holiday allowance cuts,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u17	Who'll take it? Is Minister Saarikko taking it?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u18	Mr President! Yesterday, in this Chamber, I met with the same group with which we made the commitment in paragraph 25: the most important private companies in the sector, representatives of personnel organisations, supervisors, including representatives of Finnish municipalities. We will assess what changes have taken place in this area since this public, crisis and legitimate debate. I am just describing what these people know best in everyday life — perhaps better than any of us — told me. The main messages were: Investing in leadership. This was recognised by both companies, municipal employer and employee. The second big question was the permanent nature of employment relationships. An important challenge in everyday life is when work is broken down. In this respect, the Finnish public sector is not yet sufficiently refurbished. It may also be that investing in the management of work, supervisory work and well-being, such as the right to tell about the shortcomings that they have seen, is one of the most important aspects of well-being at work. And this conversation was limited to the elderly service.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u19	And Minister Soini.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u20	Madam President! There was reference to the Filipinos. I cannot understand that, when talking about them and their carers, the language ‘slave work’ and ‘herd’ are used in public, it is as if the Filipino human women were
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u21	Let us take one more question from Mr Kiuru, and then we shall go to the next item.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u22	Mr President! I think it was a very fine gesture when the President gave Mr Soin another opportunity to say that you are talking about something on the left that I do not recognise. I asked here: If there are 70,000 people working in the care sector who are no longer employed in this field, could we go a little closer to finding those solutions than from the Philippines? That was my question, and I genuinely wanted to ask whether we could improve the working conditions of these people by setting an example in the Finnish Government in the way people working in the care sector are treated. I have to say that ghost nurse phenomena and all similar cases tell me that the eyes are blacked out and, blindly, we just go forward. I find it incomprehensible that you do not take any responsibility for these issues on the board of directors.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u23	Mr President! It is, of course, a very serious accusation from the chairman of the committee that, as Minister of Responsibility, I have taken no responsibility for these issues. [Heckling] But an important point in your speech, and I fully agree with that assessment, relates to these tens of thousands of people who have withdrawn from the sector because of work, poor pay or working conditions. It is quite true that getting them back into the industry requires a movement of posture, of which I have just given some examples. For example, the establishment of employment relationships is one answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u26	Mr President! We all know, of course, that they are doing an extremely important job. It must be understood that these different forms of work, such as this mentioned periodic work, are extremely important for the functioning of society. There are people who have to do this kind of work. That is why it would also be good to point out that when we make changes to this, among other things, the rest period changes from 9 to 11 hours. In other words, we have sought to make this more humane than it is today.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u27	The next question is from the representative Eerola of the Finnish Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u28	Madam President! Economic expert Pauli Vahtera has calculated the annual costs of immigration at around EUR 3.2 billion. The report is based on a cold, available fact and was reported this week. True Finns put their own people ahead of harmful immigration. Finns can only afford a welfare state if Finland does not act as a global social welfare office. The more this harmful immigration is, the more impossible it is to maintain social security, good working conditions, wages or a secure society like today. For the sake of comparison, it should be said, and on the subject before us, that it would be possible to get around EUR 250 million in this carer's size. It would be found if at least 10% of these immigration costs were cut. Why do you, the good government and Minister Orpo, cut the sustainability gap from Finns,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u29	Mr President! On the Ministry of the Interior itself, the cost of receiving immigration, i.e. asylum-related immigration, is about EUR 240 million a year, less than a tenth of what was said in this Vahtera column. Of course, other ministries and municipalities also have costs to receive, I cannot comment on them, but there are of course two sides to the balance sheet in general: the majority of people of working age who come to work on an asylum basis will also work for this country. I am not saying that a net calculation would be the criterion for assessing whether it is worthwhile to do so in the context of international protection. It is about other things than economic profitability, and it must be focused on what is the right size piece for Finland. That is what we have been talking about for four years, and the government has a clear will, but that is not the way to calculate the whole, even for them. Overall, it is of course important to remind you that immigration to Finland is mainly work-related. 90 per cent of labour-related customs duties in the last five years are still at work. They are precisely part of the Finland that will survive in the 2020s.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u30	Madam President! First of all, you were blessing all the surgeries you referred to. [Left: Yes!]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u31	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this issue to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u32	Madam President! You, Minister Orpo, threw us out of the government because we wanted to throw something else out of Finland. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u33	Mr President! As far as sexual offences — which, of course, are extremely scandalous — which have, fortunately, been discussed in this country as well and which have been tackled more seriously than before, are concerned, it is true that those coming from certain countries seeking protection have over-representation, although the majority of the factors, unfortunately, were born in Finland last year. The government is also very firmly in the process of tackling this, as you know about the action programme in paragraph 50. We are also proposing that the status of international protection can be dissolved in the future if you commit a serious crime, such as a sexual offence, in Finland. As far as the Isis fighters are concerned, I actually came directly from Brussels, where I discussed this with my colleagues in the Nordic countries in particular. Our starting point here as such is the same as Mr Eerola's, that it is important that criminal liability should take place, and from the point of view of the security ministers, the best thing is if it takes place in that area, and it is important to look at whether, for example, an international criminal court can be set up. In some older conflicts this has been done. That, of course, is what the Justice Ministers are preparing for. Anyway, it's clear from the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u34	There are two questions for this Isis fighter theme in different groups. Let's take them at this point. — Christian Democratic Parliament Group, represented by Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u35	Mr President! Indeed, it is important for Finland's safety that we are able to prevent these foreign fighters from returning to Finland, and we must also take these family members into account. It is known that women who have adopted a terrorist ideology are also a threat to the environment and have committed acts of terrorism. It is also known that people from the combat area have already returned to Finland who may have come with false personal data and asylum seekers. The intelligence law before us today brings one tool to the police, but I would like to ask how you are going to promote, during your remaining term of office, that legislation should be sufficiently stringent not only in order to prevent this return from the citizenship law but also in terms of this legislation on residence permits.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u36	Mr President! This in itself has been taken up in time, and we have had the police, under the auspices of the protection police, very closely monitored every so-called early returner who has come in previous years. Well, we are now in a situation where the Caliphate is finally about to fall, and it is very important in this situation, including with our Nordic colleagues, to ensure that no one returns undetected and, as I said, action is being taken here. You referred to the question of citizenship. There is a government proposal here this week that citizenship could be removed from the dual citizen if he commits a terrorist act against the vital interests of Finland in Finland. We have now launched a review of whether, within the framework of the Finnish Constitution and international treaties, this possibility can be extended in the future to include participation in the activities of a terrorist organisation which takes place abroad, [ Hulls on the right]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u37	There was one more question. — Blue Parliamentary Group, represented by Kulmala.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u38	Madam President! As the Minister said, the time for daddy is really beginning to be over. Terrorists have been driven out of the territories they've taken over. International media have interviewed Finnish Sanna, who has been with children for four years on ISIS' journey to the Middle East. Sanna would now like to return to Finland. The current government is taking through a law that allows the removal of Finnish citizenship from a double citizen who committed a terrorist offence. Anyone who wants to go back to Finland Therefore, the ISIS fighter could be deprived of his citizenship if he had a second nationality. Without citizenship, no one can be left behind. In the future, Blues believe that the loss of citizenship should also be possible in the broader sense of endangering national security. For example, if an adult person decides to go with terrorists, he has made a decision that there is no return to Finland. My question to the Minister is: what do you think about whether the law should really be amended so that acts which endanger national security in general can mean both the abolition of citizenship and the ban on entry into Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u39	Mr President! Of course, in such a serious matter in particular, regulation must be precise, i.e. a general rule cannot be laid down, but my sense of law in itself would be matched by the fact that if an adult, consciously aware of the fact that he joins the ranks of a terrorist organisation and, in practice, when he returns, he also poses a threat with a very high probability, then citizenship could also be considered in such a situation. As has been said, it is of course important for us in the rule of law to act on the basis of the Constitution and also on the basis of the European Convention on Citizenship, and we are now examining in this context whether we could do otherwise in Finland in the future. Of course, it is also clear and important to make it clear here that, of course, there is no retroactive use of such laws. That is why I personally believe that the best thing is for these criminal responsibilities to be fulfilled in that area by the international community, and that it will be possible to deal with those to whom it belongs in criminal law. If this does not happen, we will monitor everyone in Finland who tries to get back here,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u40	Mr President! The decline in the flow of fire after 2015 is due solely to measures taken by Denmark, Sweden and other countries on the route. The measures taken by the Finnish Government have nothing to do with this. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u41	Mr President! If the representative had closely followed the very precise work done then in the Finnish Government, you would know that the introduction of internal border controls at the western border would not have reduced the acceptance of asylum applications in Finland at all. When I first met my colleague in Sweden a year ago, he immediately said that I saved you when Sweden introduced border controls, because then everyone who came from Denmark to Sweden was registered as an applicant in Sweden. Their situation changed only when Denmark did the same. Finland has, for its part, changed the situation, for example, by looking at the improved security situation in Iraq, so that, on the basis of a country assessment, only those who are genuinely persecuted, persecuted or tortured can benefit from protection from Finland. And of course this has contributed, among other things, to the fact that there have been very few new asylum seekers from Iraq in recent years.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u44	Then there is Minister Soin's addition.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u45	Madam President! In order to prevent this handwashing from becoming quite impossible now, I believe that there is no difference between the minutes of the Finnish People's Party or any of the conclusions of the party bodies or any measure in which you have been involved. There's no way out of it. I have to say this in the name of truth. Now, after that, you're yelling at what you've been doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u46	Mr President! I was vice-chairman of the parliamentary group at the time and I remember very well how we were able to separate people from the group who raised the critical aspects of immigration. This is quite clear and in everyone's memory. Mr Huhtasaari has taken these parliamentary measures, which can be found in Parliament's documents. And the same people have been sitting in the ministerial box all the time, so that if anyone talks about handwashing, then I am in favour of looking in the mirror. But I would ask Minister Orpo: When you said that Pauli Vahtera's calculations could not be true, would you please give details of the corresponding figures? He has taken on various processes, housing allowances, health care and other aspects. In 2017, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health reported that it was around one billion a year. Can you now tell us what the total costs are on the same classifications? There's not gonna be a proper response from the minister's office right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u47	Mr President! I have asked officials from the Ministry of Finance to go through this study, and the first estimates of it are not very flattering and are not considered to be very accurate or correct. Underlying assumptions are, according to the Ministry of Finance's assessment of responsibility, very fragile and it seems that expenses that do not belong there have been calculated. Above all, when immigration is such a broad concept — it is such a broad concept — those figures cannot be drawn together in this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u53	And one more supplementary question.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u54	Mr President! It is the very good news of the day that Isis and Isis' Caliphate in Syria are coming to the end of their journey. This relates both to Syrian security and to the security of the world as a whole and to the end of such terrorist activities. There was also news today, and I think it came from Sweden first of all, that such an international criminal court should be proposed to which the Minister referred. I myself think that the advantage would be that all the information we have about the various actors could be combined in these investigations and that there could be more international cooperation to catch the real culprits and bring them to justice. I would have asked for further clarification: what is the precise position of the Finnish Government on such an international criminal court, and how could we cooperate with it? And, of course, when you look at the area and the people there, the news has told you that there would be about 3,500 children. Of course, no matter what the parents have done, the question is what the fate of these children is. Save the Children and others have appealed for them. How does the government feel about the fate of these children?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u55	Mr President! Firstly, as far as this criminal liability is concerned, as I said, it is, of course, also more precise answers to Mr Haavisto's questions, the administrative sector of the ministries of justice and there are a lot of questions there. It is certainly not a fast road either. But on behalf of the security ministers, we did say that criminal responsibility is important, and it is best for our safety if it were to be done from the regions of origin and not by the process that is taking place here and by travelling here. As far as the issue of children, which is absolutely essential — and I am glad that you raised it — is concerned, of course, that there is also an age limit for criminal liability, which means that children themselves cannot even be blamed and, of course, those born there or taken there as a child have not chosen their fate. Of course, they will be dealt with primarily by means of child protection methods if they, to the attention of the Finnish authorities, seek to be Finnish citizens. And, of course, there will be difficult questions, such as family reunification or child protection, but it is important for us to show humanity to those young children and to do so in the most balanced way possible, while ensuring that those who have deliberately left the country as terrorists are:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u56	Minister Häkkänen, briefly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u57	Mr President! I believe that there is a broad consensus in this Chamber and in Finland and certainly in Europe that the return of Isis fighters should be avoided — that they will not return to any of the European countries, especially if they try to come back from combat missions. I don't think that's what anyone in this room wants either. It might therefore be reasonable to have an international court procedure in which all these people who return from the battlefield are dealt with in a single international court procedure. This is usually the case if there are large areas of conflict from which people flee to several countries. This would be a controlled approach. The Home Affairs Ministers have made a proposal on this today, and the Justice Ministers are now considering this. Very problematic, wide-ranging entity.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u58	Green Parliamentary Group, representative Järvinen. Question, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u59	Madam President! Last week more than 30 women leaders from different countries published an open letter for equality. They are concerned about the erosion of women's rights around the world. Finland has always been considered a model country for equality, but unfortunately the same decline is happening in Finland. For the first time in my life, I find myself in a situation where women's rights and equality have been weakened during the reign, not improved. This is also explained by the government's own report that the government's actions have benefited more men than women. I therefore ask you, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Orpo: how did this happen?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u60	Mr President! You may refer in your speech to the final report of the Government's gender equality programme or to a previous survey or a project in which researchers examined the impact of budgeting or the impact of our budget on men and women. It is clear that, when assessing individual questions, the representative may come to that conclusion, but I would not be quite reasonable to say that Finland would have taken the backsliding of equality. As such, on the eve of Women's Day, I would like to remind all of us, men and women, every Finn, that equality is an act and cannot be taken for granted. In a country where many things are so good for women, some things are too obvious. But if we consider, for example, the measures taken by this government in relation to the commitment to the Istanbul agreement, for example, against violence against women in close proximity, I would not end up with a similar assessment of what the representative did in his speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u61	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u62	Madam President! When you add together all the government's activities, it is clear that equality has been in crisis. The cuts and freezes in the National Pensions Index have affected women in small pensions, but you knew that the cut in holiday money will weaken the position of women in working life.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u65	Mr President! The competitiveness agreement that was concluded and committed to by Finnish employers and employees was much more than just the question of holiday money. As a single decision, it can, of course and rightly, be said that the majority of women working in the public sector have weakened their position. On the other hand, I'm pretty sure there are about half women and half men among the 140,000 new employed Finns. As far as this overall assessment is concerned, what you are raising about these problems, I too cannot say from here, with ministerial responsibility, that everything would be perfect with regard to equality or that in some respects things would not have been taken in the cold and backward. At the same time, however, I dare say that your assessment of early childhood education, for example, is extremely flawed. It has a very big effect that early childhood education fees were reduced by allowing nearly 7,000 families to benefit from free early childhood education, while for 5-year-olds, free-of-charge is tried in several municipalities, and for example the sister discount was halved.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u66	Mr President! According to both the World Economic Forum Equality Index and the European Institute for Gender Equality, equality in Finland has deteriorated during this government term.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u69	Mr President! In this debate on equality, in the run-up to Women's Day, it is good to remember that one guarantee of equality is also a fair distribution of parenthood, and that is why, for example, the investments made in recent years, even during the previous government, to increase the number of family leave for fathers are good deeds of equality, not only for men but also for women. Similarly, the decision taken by the government to make a lump sum of EUR 2 and half a thousand for women's employers has left the very costs that employers can, at least from one line to the next, see as the reasons why young women are not employed in employment instead of young men. As far as subdivision is concerned, I agree with the representative on this point. We have a huge journey to get young children to think that everything is possible for everyone. In this respect, more projects, in cooperation with a large high-level equal pay group under the leadership of the Ministry of Education and Culture, are very important work,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u70	Madam President! The competitiveness pact mentioned here, which included cuts in public holiday payments, was indeed a disservice to equal pay. Around 80% of public employees are women, the majority of low-paid women. It was an agreement that specifically cut off low-paid women who work in the care sector and care for the elderly and children, the police, firefighters, people who care for our safety. The Left Alliance was therefore the only party against the competitiveness pact here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u73	Mr President! Well, of course, it would have been great if it had been possible to complete the reform of family leave in the midst of these many other reforms and to bring out that major reform from the parliamentary reading. But I do not share your assessment — although I am happy to compliment and thank you, Mr Arhinmäki, for the very work done to increase the freedom of fathers during the reign of Katainen — but I note that, even during this term of government, family leave has been improved despite all this and we have been able to understandably receive a lot of positive messages from families such as adoptive families, plural families or one-parent families who, in fact, have been unequal for decades and which our legislation has defined as, in some way, a different, different, wrong kind of family which does not have the same benefits. This change has, in my view, been a very important legislative change in the equality of families and children, which is now coming into force this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u74	Mr President! The female euro area is currently 84 cents. During my Prime Minister's term, it was still 80. The direction is correct, but the speed is too slow. Above all, it is the responsibility of employees and employers to ensure that wage equality is improved. I would like to ask Minister Lindström: this last kiky agreement has had a very positive effect on employment. Is it not the case that long-term unemployment has halved and probably a very large number of men have left? Surely it is not the government's fault if the relative position of men has improved as employment has improved?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u75	Mr President! Mr Vanhanen has interpreted it quite correctly. It's really important this pay-per-view. Of course, when wages are discussed here, we must always remember where they are decided and where they are negotiated. They're not decided here. It's really important to remember that, but we have to keep working. It is true that long-term unemployment has halved during this term of government. When we started moving, we were in a number of about 130,000, and now we are under 70,000. In other words, a huge amount of work has been done and we must remember that hidden unemployment has also become people back into the labour market, and for a long time it was shown that the statistics did not improve. People began to believe in this, and it was a big merit of kiky that we became believed in as Finland. And although I know that the Left Alliance disagreed with it, thank you all for being behind it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u76	Mr President! On women's day tomorrow, women deserve their flowers, but, above all, women deserve equal opportunities to cope with their own hard work and abilities in working life. On the road to equality in working life, the worst problem is that employers of all women experience the risk of motherhood, i.e. they have to pay more for parenthood than the employers of fathers. This is something that this government has tackled very well with a lump sum, an allowance of EUR 2500 for the employers of mothers. This is the direction in which it is worth continuing to promote equality. Secondly, the issue of equality: it is excellent that Minister Häkkänen has gone into sexual and violent crime to blackmail convictions. Reforms made during this period have been necessary and good, and the fact that the role of consent has now begun to be strengthened
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u77	Minister Häkkänen, briefly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u78	Mr President! Yes, the fight against violence against women is one of the most important projects to be strengthened in Finland. Domestic violence and violence against women continue to be a disgrace in Finland. This parliamentary term has now moved forward with the tightening of penalties, and now one of the biggest projects in the next parliamentary term is the overall reform of sexual offences legislation, which, first of all, aims to strengthen the importance of lack of consent in the category of rape marks, that is to say, to emphasise the importance of sexual self-determination. On the other hand, it also looks at the severity of all these penalties and then later sets out guidelines for them. The purpose of the overall reform is that sexual crime regulation is better coordinated and criminal liability is more effective than it is today.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u79	Let us take the rest of the questions so that there is one question and one answer. — Parliamentary group of the Left Alliance, represented by Mustajärvi.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u80	Mr President! This week, the National Institute for Health and Welfare (THL) published a report on the content of which is hard to hear. For some beneficiaries of basic security, income support has become a permanent part of livelihood. The number of people living on basic security has now increased by 40,000. Law changes during the Government’s term have weakened the situation of single parents and families with children in general. Two-fifths of the recipients of labour market support and basic daily allowance receive a reduced benefit on the basis of the active model. Ministers and government, is this the legacy you want to leave to citizens with low incomes?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u81	Madam President! Basic income support is located on Minister Saarikko's property, but an active model has been mentioned here, and I would like to say the following: However, income support has also protected these most vulnerable people. This study also states that, in comparison with EU countries, the income level of people living on the basis of basic Finnish security can be considered fairly good or average. As far as the active model is concerned, it is precisely from the beginning of this year that it has been possible to verify activity by studying and next month, that is to say from the beginning of April, that the regulation will enter into force, which will also increase the conditions for activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u82	Let me ask you a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u83	Mr President! Index freezes and cuts are a silent bandit who goes to the purse of people who receive unemployment benefits, housing allowance and home care allowance. In addition, the active model also disciplines the active unemployed. In fact, the model has nothing to do with activity; it is just a formal cut in unemployment security. Ministers, the vision for the future of your government programme is Finland 2025 — built together. How can you talk about a common Finland when you consciously push a huge number of people even outside basic security?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u84	Mr President! However, I cannot entirely agree with this report either... We have read the same report with the representative, and it continues to state precisely the protective factors that protect the most low incomes through our benefit system. And when we talk about our basic security, we must also remember that basic services are part of it. They are an important part of this overall basic security. If it is also stated here today and today that long-term unemployment has halved, more and more people will be employed,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u87	And now the question and the answer, the question and the answer. — Swedish Parliamentary Group, represented by Rehn-Kivi. One question, one answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u88	Mr President, värderade talman! Här frågades redan om situationen inom vården, men för tydlighetens skull ännu en fråga. Vi är alla överens om att det finns för för för vårdare, och problemet måste lösas i hela landet. Tillagsfinansiering är en viktig del av lösningen, men en läs stor fråga är till vårdare.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u89	Mr President! We need more nurses in Finland, which is obvious because we have an increasing number of older people and the need for elderly services will increase in the coming years. The number of nurses has been steadily increasing for several years, and this year, as an additional measure, we increased the number of student years in vocational education by 500. It is important that we continue along this path, that we find a path in which nurses are trained more specifically for the elderly. Another aspect is that we must have committed, competent nurses in the future too. It is our strength today, and we want to be confident that Finnish social and health care will also be in good hands in the future. Therefore, the suitability tests deleted — representative As Minister of Education, Kiuru removed the aptitude tests for social and health education — we returned because we want to have committed professionals working in the future too.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u90	Next question, the Central Parliamentary Group, Mr Kurvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u91	Madam President! Less than 40 days are left for the next parliamentary elections in mid-April, for the celebration of democracy, and I am certainly not the only representative who has received a lot of questions and feedback on how to vote now and how to vote. These relate most strongly to the identification of this new law, which has led, for example, to the fact that, when applying for a passport, a driving licence for a car is no longer valid to prove its identity. That is why I would ask the Minister of Justice a question, so that it is certainly easy for us then to answer our citizens' letters and our e-mails: can you still vote with a driving licence? President! There are also people who do not have a driving licence for a car and also do not have this new identity card, and I understand that the Kela card cannot be voted on. How can such people gain access to their civil rights, and, Minister for Justice, how does the government intend to make it easier for as many Finns as possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u92	Mr President! In Finland, the electoral system is built on making it as easy as possible to vote. We do not have an American model in which we should register or in which rather complex processes can be used to vote at all. We are not quite as easy to get to vote as in Estonia, where there is an online voting opportunity, but on the other hand, we can say that our electoral system is a little safer than such an online voting system. With regard to these identity documents: the identity of the voter can therefore still be ascertained, for example, on an identity card, passport, driving licence or similar photo and official document. We have different identification documents for different purposes, and there has been some confusion about this, but in the event of a vote it is enough to check the identity of these. I'm sure this will become even more information in the run-up to the election.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u93	One more question. Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party, represented by Kauma.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u94	Mr President! To celebrate tomorrow’s Women’s Day, Finland is in many ways a very good place to be a girl. Finland is often listed as the best country in the world for mothers, despite the criticisms that have been heard here today. Yet we also have problems. The 2016 EU survey showed that Finland was the second most insecure country in the EU for women. According to the survey, 30 per cent of violent offences committed in Finland were committed by the current or former partner. Domestic violence is hidden many times because of the shame experienced, among other things. I would ask the Minister for Family and Basic Services, Saariko: what has been done during this reign to reduce domestic violence experienced by women?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u95	Mr President! According to the World Economic Forum, Finland is the fourth most equal country in the world for women. The previous debate has shown that equality is, however, an issue that needs to be promoted every day. The violence you have raised in your question is a disgrace to Finnish society. We cannot rejoice over equality in working life or the role of women in social tasks, for example, if so many women experience violence in their closest relationship in life. This is why I am proud of Finland, which committed itself to the Istanbul agreement, which obliges Finland to take measures to reduce violence against women. The agreement and the commitment are extensive, including, for example, a strong criminalisation of female genital mutilation, which is highly reprehensible. Of course, Finland has done so in the Criminal Code. With regard to domestic violence, this term of government will remain in history as major improvements in the increase in asylum places and their regional equality and also in the opening of a telephone line, which has been desperately needed and needed for anonymous contacts with victims of violence — these examples, to name but a few.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u96	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 36/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. A debate on the 4th item of the agenda will also be allowed on this subject after the presentations by the committee chairmen. First of all, Mr Eerola.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u97	Madam President! Today, at last, after various stages in the plenary session, we are dealing with substance law, the report on civil intelligence law, which has been adopted by the Administrative Committee, and then also this report on military intelligence law, which, in turn, has come here through the Committee on Defence. In the past, Parliament has already adopted constitutional amendments, changes to the law governing the lawfulness of intelligence activities and amendments to Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which establish a Committee on Intelligence for parliamentary control of intelligence in the Parliament. The Administrative Committee has submitted its report, in fact two, on this civil intelligence legislation, and this latter report, after this tweet round, is now before Parliament's plenary session. As far as previous developments are concerned, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has assessed the previous opinion of the Administrative Committee and stated that the legislative proposals contained therein can be dealt with in the order of the ordinary legislative procedure. [Department : Right! ] Mr President! The Administrative Committee has received the opinion of several parliamentary committees and has consulted widely with experts. Amongst those consulted are experts who are familiar with the situation picture and threats of internal security, on the one hand, and experts on legal security and supervision on the other. On the basis of the consultation and in particular of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and also of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Administrative Committee has tabled dozens of draft amendments to the draft law. These changes will focus on complementing legal security and enforcement regulation and regulation, inter alia, from the point of view of punctuality and precision. With regard to internal security, the Administrative Committee has described this state of our security environment in its report. Threats that seriously endanger national security in our country are not necessarily well-known. It is therefore important to state the actual situation. These threat images are mainly generated in one way or another from outside Finland. The background is often the spill-over effects of crisis outbreaks. The effects of the weakening of power relations are also reflected in our own security environment. It is essential that during the peace period, the focus of the fight against these threats is on the internal security authority. It is therefore necessary to provide for civil intelligence legislation in order, for example, to bring the Taliban and other terrorist organisations under surveillance. The Committee's report takes full account of the constitutional remarks made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The majority of other comments have also been taken into account. However, in some respects, the report received by the committee and, in particular, the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs has led to different solutions. The opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs on a number of issues has been particularly valuable as the Committee on the Industry, Public Health and Consumer Policy on these issues, and for that I would like to thank you. The amendments tabled by the Administrative Committee are mainly aimed at improving legal certainty and at underlining the accuracy and precision of regulation. At the same time, however, the committee has been concerned that civil intelligence legislation will enable effective and effective intelligence to be carried out in order to combat serious threats to national security and thus ultimately to safeguard the fundamental rights of citizens. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stressed the importance of supervision and legal security. However, the opinion of that committee also shows the effectiveness and effectiveness of intelligence. Madam President! This is an important reform. The Security Police as a civilian intelligence authority will be given new intelligence powers. The main issue is the current methods of police law and the law on coercive measures, which are used in the field of intelligence. However, the legislation includes entirely new powers, such as telecommunications intelligence. The civil intelligence legislation to be enacted has clearly defined the activities that threaten national security and for which it is possible to obtain authorisation or decision to exercise intelligence powers. These include terrorism and action that endangers the lives or health of a large number of people or the vital functions of society. In all situations, the use of the intelligence method must be necessary to obtain important information on activities that seriously endanger national security. Some of the intelligence methods may be introduced by a court decision and some are decided by the protection police themselves. In any case, the court’s permission and the protection police’s decision are behind strict and strict demands. In addition, intelligence activities are subject to thorough monitoring. The Intelligence Supervisor shall have the opportunity to exercise this surveillance in advance, in real time and ex post. The Committee on Intelligence also has extensive powers. It is clear from this report by the Administrative Committee that the use of intelligence methods is not intended to obtain information on a crime. It is a question of combating activities that seriously threaten national security ex ante. The information obtained by the Protection Police is intended to be used by the government to safeguard our own society. In addition, operational internal security authorities, such as the police, Border Guard, Customs, also need intelligence on projects that seriously endanger national security. In the future, the protection police themselves will no longer be a criminal investigation authority, but its role will be increasingly focused on intelligence. The report also deals widely with matters of legal security and supervision, although they arise in particular from the law on the law governing the judicial supervision of intelligence and the amendment to Parliament's Rules of Procedure relating to the establishment of a Committee on Intelligence. The report by the Administrative Committee also examines the situations in which intelligence is prohibited and where the use of the intelligence method must be reported. Mr President! It is necessary to monitor the implementation of extensive and particularly relevant intelligence legislation and the implementation of its objectives and also to evaluate it here in Parliament. It is not excluded that the experience gained may lead to a revision of the provisions. Intelligence must be effective and effective, but at the same time legal protection must be in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u98	Mr President! We're on the big side here. But while we are dealing with a big issue, we are also dealing with a patriotic issue, and that country does mean both our national activities and individual citizens alike. In this respect, we are dealing with legislation of exceptional importance, which is subject to demanding legislative drafting in various forms. We can see what is in practice today's battlefield and what is in it, because we have moved to a stage where, of course, traditional risks can also be escalated into crisis, conflict or even warfare, but where the nature of the game is more that there is not either war or peace, but something in between, in the grey zone, where even traces are not intended to be revealed in all the activities carried out in intelligent, devilish ways by state actors, but also by individual terrorist groups. That is why this multi-faceted, impudent, subtle, cold way of working in our society is reflected in the discussions we are talking about as a world of hybrid influence, in which the range of means is incomprehensible and in which much blue-eyedness does not help, or in the cyberworld with its enormous influence, the rolling influence across societies today is being pursued to the best possible extent. We know what new technologies bring. Literature is also a good example of it in Finland. The international film industry dates them and brings threats that a normal person’s idea does not necessarily want to reach. The means of asymmetric warfare are then in place and under discussion, and it is clear that information impact is something I personally hope that the next government programme could also contain clausules, in which way Finland prepares for information impact during the next government term. This is an important question. The target is normally the vital functions of society. We all have a sense of what it could mean in practice. It includes or covers critical infrastructure. We know what we are referring to in this case, for example, with regard to our energy networks. Informationtructure is equally targeted if actions such as those I have just described are used to paralyse society, bring society to its knees or use various types of blackmail programmes against society and its members. They talk about swimming in state secrets or breaking into military secrets through various hacks, for example, about breaking into financial secrets, either at state or company level, or about business dealing with similar issues. I read somewhere that two years ago — only a few years ago — there were 8 billion online devices in the world. Today there are 20 billion such devices — and it is only two years between that eight and 20. It tells us something about the speed of man passing through the net today on a daily basis. We have more than 200 billion e-mails daily in the world, and over 500 million TVs also travel on a daily basis on earth. Facebook has over 2 billion users every day. Quite a field to plow or quite a lot of ideas to find. The United States, Russia and China are all building their own systems in this world. They do not use any common Internet, they use their own systems and create intelligent operations and actions with huge financial stakes to improve their chances. Global malware productions in the world have exploded in the hands, which means that data breaches are everyday life. Cyber intelligence is among us, which means that the espionage of the world’s oldest profession today has received a very new type of face, effective and very difficult. The Russian SORM-3 system is a system that is allegedly capable of collecting information about all communication tools available to humans. I don't know, but that's what they say. Then it means citizens, business, the public sector and all of our security solutions, for example in the case of Finland. The question is: what is the cyberresilience in our country today? That is why we have been forced to move to improve the capacity of the authorities to respond and act effectively in this world. We regret to say that, for some incomprehensible reason, Finland has sailed to these moments without a legal basis on both the civilian and the military sides, without being able to prepare for this kind of action. Only identified crime cases, identified crimes, have been possible to investigate and investigate. At the same time, however, the threat is more diverse and, in many respects, more serious than ever in our common history. We have now prepared legislation for Finland, in my opinion, in a state-wise way that has exceeded the Government-Opposition boundary and brought this matter close to everyone in various forms, preparing for it since 13. So it's been a long march. The Government-Opposition-cross-border activities in this area have received a social assessment which has enabled this difficult and demanding legislation to be brought here without major social problems. Unfortunately — and unfortunately and unfortunately — this is the only way to achieve results, because this decision-making system is also slow. It is demanding, but we are finally getting results, but we are the last countries in Western Europe to get their legislation right in this respect. This is necessary for the decision-making of the President of the Republic and the Government's Committee on Foreign Affairs, because it is quite clear that the leadership of the country's foreign policy, which is responsible for security policy, must have sufficient resources to make its own decisions and decisions in order to guarantee Finland's own security. We are doing these in terms of the European Court of Human Rights and European Union law so that they also operate in accordance with any legal system that safeguards the fundamental rights of citizens. We have listened to over a hundred experts in the Committee on Defence and have obtained the opinions of seven committees and have sought to pick up the essentials in order to make it work, legal certainty and, at the same time, effective for our authorities. Spying as the oldest profession in the world is not something to be naive about, but where we need to foster Finland's national interests and participate in the international exchange in a way that we also get information through the effectiveness of our own systems, as we can also make the same value base available to societies and states. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u99	Thank you to the chairmen of the committees. — — — — Next up, Minister Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u100	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office, the relevant committees, but also the whole House, from the side to the side. As Mrs Kanerva also pointed out, responsible persons have been found in each parliamentary party to deal properly with this serious national security issue. Not only do I thank you that we are now in the process of adopting the government's proposal, the government is, of course, behind its proposals, but also for the fact that this has been genuinely handled carefully and carefully. It is important that there is a national consensus on such matters, and it is also a guarantee that there is broad national consensus on the way in which it is handled and on the process. Unanimity is often even contrary to the nature of democracy, but broad national consensus is important. Mr President! Based on international estimates, the activity of foreign intelligence services in Finland has returned to the times of the Cold War. They're in digital time, we're in the '80s. This is why, for example, the online espionage of the 2013 Ministry of Foreign Affairs became known about the goodwill of the guy, the goodwill of the neighbouring country. Much has been said here during the proceedings about the exchange of information between intelligence services in other countries. And it is, of course, a precise place for the Finnish intelligence service to exchange information about persons, but at the moment it is completely at the mercy of others. In order to get any information on the grids, we need to change something. We will find a much more equal place now that legislation is being amended. Can we continue at the mercy of others? We can't go on. The terrorist threat has been increasing for a long time, and we must acknowledge that. Almost all attacks are planned in one way or another on the Internet. Finland’s information exchange and information is also dependent on other intelligence services in this area. Fortunately, we have sympathy, we are a reputable state, but from others we receive only information that has not been sought with the emphasis of our interests and therefore even with the side eye our partner sees that there is interesting information in it for Finland, and it is thought that Finland will also be able to pay for it. Can we go on like this? We can't go on like this. Finland is one of the last countries in Western Europe to have no legislation on telecommunications intelligence at all. However, information goes beyond our limits in the cables to Germany, Sweden and Russia. Germany, Sweden and Russia — all of them enquire about these cables. All of them are asking for information from Finland, for the exchange of information between our citizens, but we, as the last ones, do not even see what is happening with the cables to our citizens' information. Finland is also the next EU Presidency, and we will certainly receive special attention from foreign intelligence services as well as those planning terrorist attacks. Mr President! From the point of view of the Ministry of Security, it is the eleventh hour to legislate on these laws. It is important that this is done carefully and thoroughly. This has been done. We would have needed these laws to come into force yesterday, but as long as we can at least tomorrow, we can be pleased that we are able to improve the safety of Finns. Fortunately, we also have the decision-making capacity in Finland: the majority of five sixths of us will be in haste legislation in the autumn. As we all know, it is very rare that such a majority was found. There is a broad national consensus in this Chamber that security must be safeguarded and that we can reliably do so. And now, fortunately, we are at the point where the report on more detailed legislation is also ready to move forward, and I hope that we will also have a constructive debate on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u101	All right, then let's go on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u102	Mr President! The intelligence laws, the declaration of urgency of their processing, the government's supervisory proposal and the regulation of personal data are a demanding whole. There are more pages in the package than in the social media show. Intelligence laws have been prepared for a long time, and the need for legislative reform in this brutal world is beyond doubt. For example, military intelligence has been operating for a hundred years without proper legislation. In such a comprehensive, complex and multi-dimensional reform, the preparatory machinery always has the advantage. Parliamentary parties, including government parties, should be able to question and critically evaluate the proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u105	Madam President! It is great that we are now in the final stages. As has already been mentioned, this is indeed the last moment when Finland absolutely needs this legislation. I agree here with what Mr Mustajärvi has just said: we can be proud of the way in which this legislation has been prepared. In the parliamentary group we have been sitting for about three years at dozens and dozens of meetings, perhaps between 40 and 50 meetings we have been sitting and preparing this legislation with dozens and again with dozens of experts. And when I said that we could be proud of this preparation, this is a good example of the way in which important national legislation is worth doing, that is to say there is parliamentary preparation, and I believe that there would also be a much better situation in the war if it had been prepared in the same way as this legislation. So now Parliament can really be proud of the way in which this legislation has been adopted, and I recommend this method. We were also very united in this work, of course there were small nuances here and there, but all in all we could say was that we were very united. And now that there are quite a few people here from this group who were in this parliamentary preparation — I see that a great many colleagues are here — I would also like to pay particular tribute here to Mr Töll, who, with great diligence and skill, led this work together, but at the same time I would also like to thank all the colleagues who were involved in this work. Each party was very enthusiastic and good people. This result means that we, Finland, now finally have modern intelligence legislation. We have been very far behind the international situation. When it has been said here that we have been partly dependent on the outside world, I can confirm and confirm that this is indeed the case from my previous job. It must be noted that this international activity — it is a purchasing and selling business: if you have nothing to sell, then you cannot buy anything either. This is, of course, a very delicate piece of work in which to do it. It also requires absolute confidence on both sides. This means that this work, mainly, is with friendly countries, but sometimes it is also forced to do in hostile situations in order to avoid a greater conflict. I am not going to go into detail here about these individual rights and security. All I have to say is that using the old custom and the slogan, let the villains beware, but let honest people sleep in peace at night.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u110	Madam President! I, too, would like to thank the committees and the government and also the parliamentary working group represented by the Commission. I'm really impressed with the fact that this is where we are now. With regard to the multigenerational and difficult situation of social legislation, the credibility of our entire decision-making system is under test, and in these circumstances it is great that this issue, which also raises difficult questions, has been brought to an end. National security is a common issue, and I believe that it has contributed to the fact that this has now been achieved with a fairly good spirit of cooperation. However, I would like to comment so much on Mr Mustajärvi's speech that he did show a very lively imagination in insinuating that the operational activities of the police, this Airisto activity, would have been harnessed against the political line of the Left Alliance in this issue that they have raised. I myself know the culture of the Ministry of the Interior and the police that this is not possible in Finland, and perhaps Mr Mykkänen can confirm that. Fortunately, we are not living in a culture where the police would be ordered to conduct an operation in order to somehow oppose the line of a particular party. We don't have one of these. Crime prevention is not an inquiry, and intelligence is not a criminal investigation, and the powers currently exercised by the subsidy are indeed the powers conferred on crime prevention and are not intended for anything other than criminal intelligence. It is therefore not possible for us to obtain effective information, particularly on activities which seriously threaten national security and on how to detect it at a sufficiently early stage, and it is not possible under current legislation, because the exercise of powers is specifically linked to the concept of crime. However, the threats to national security are often such that they are not crimes under Finnish law. Even when there is something indicative of a crime at risk of national security, action may not have progressed sufficiently to address a specific and identified suspicion of crime, and that is why this new legislation, which is already possible in all our neighbouring countries and in almost all European countries, is needed. Imagine that, according to information received from a foreign intelligence service, two foreign members of a terrorist organisation have arrived in Finland with an unknown identity. This is not even an exceptional situation today, but a very possible situation. The purpose of these people’s activities is unclear, but it is claimed that the organisation is directing the activities of the persons, such as through a discussion forum on the Iraqi information network. The protection police will receive confirmation of international intelligence from other sources. However, people sent to Finland cannot be identified and cannot be subject to data acquisition because their identity is unknown. In such a case, there has been no justification for exercising criminal law enforcement powers, and the current powers do not have the opportunity to determine identity, and yet this could be an activity that seriously threatens Finnish security, and it is therefore important and necessary to clarify the intentions of these persons. That is why this legislation is needed, which is why it is also very timely now that the caliphate of Isis has been almost completely overthrown and it is true that these people may also come to Finland on different roads. Even if they are not even invited or transported, they may still cross the border. Mr President, I should like to comment on the argument made in the debates that the intelligence law in this form would allow mass control. These statements are extraordinary, since this legislative package does not specifically allow unallocated and comprehensive monitoring of telecommunications, i.e. the activities described by the EU Court of Justice in its decision-making practices as mass control. In other words, this is not the case, and there are so many thresholds behind which cross-border data intelligence can be carried out, and control is also very strongly included, including in international comparisons. Finally, however, Mr President, it must be said that this intelligence legislation is not, after all, a magic wand that would prevent all terrorist attacks and other serious acts and events in Finland. However, it can be estimated from past history that, for example, in the case of online espionage by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the benefits of intelligence legislation could have been very significant at that time. So maybe it could have been quicker to get control of that event and prevent it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u113	Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u138	Madam President! It is really nice to be discussing a legislative package with such a consensus. We have new kinds of threats to which we need new instruments to respond, and on the other hand, the security environment we are facing is a reason why it has been good to move this legislative package forward. It is also noteworthy that so far we have not had any intelligence laws. As was just heard here, on the military intelligence side, intelligence has been done, but without a legal basis. That is why this is an important point in our parliamentary term. There are therefore five proposals: the Civil Intelligence Act, the Military Intelligence Act, the surveillance of intelligence, the amendment of the Constitution, and then Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which set up a new Committee on Intelligence. There has even been a proposal today on who would become an intelligence officer. So today we have the last law on intelligence, that is to say military and civilian intelligence in the debate, but I repeat the question that has just been asked, that we are still in the middle of a law on personal data which has not entered this Chamber and one of which has not even been dealt with in committee. I understand that these are essential if intelligence laws are to be implemented in practice. It remains to be seen whether the government parties have the will to do this, how to take these forward — hopefully. This parliamentary group, which has already been a follow-up group from the previous period, and not a genuine working group, has been a prerequisite for bringing this proposal here, but, in all respects, more parties were not satisfied with all those points when the legislative package came here to the Parliament House. That is why it has been very good that, throughout the preparatory work, during the course of this house, there has also been a parliamentary debate here, which the representative of the The can't-can't-can't-can't-can-can't-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-do-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-do-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-do-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-do-can-can-can-can-can-can-do-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-do-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-do-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-do-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-do-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can.-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can.-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-do-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can.-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can-can- The second reason why it has been very justified that this has been considered together is that the majority of the five-sixths to amend the Constitution so that fundamental human rights, in this case the secrecy of letters, can be addressed, has demanded a common understanding of why we need this fast-track constitutional change rather than in the two parliaments. What was gratifying was the feedback from the draftsmen, at least from someone who told us that although he had been writing this bill for many years, he must admit that this parliamentary process was even better than that. I believe that this is a good sign for all of us that Parliament's precise work in committees and parliamentaryly produces good legislative preparation when it can be done together, then, of course, with the authors of the laws. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs then stated that the amendment could be made as a matter of urgency and was thus adopted here with a very broad consensus, so that the five-sixth was achieved. At the same time, it was possible to reach agreement at the same time during this debate, which was not at all at the beginning, such as better supervision of the protection police and intelligence, changes in the mandate of the Intelligence Commissioner, more precise targeting of intelligence, and then we were about to discuss these actual intelligence laws once this supervision had been carried out. This is where it came to the scope, because there were so many committees of opinion, all of which, both from the Committee on Legal Affairs and, of course, from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Administrative Affairs and others, received valuable additional information. The precision of intelligence was one of the points the Committee on Constitutional Affairs already drew attention to in the first round, and it was tried and done in both committees, specifying it, and this aspect of legal protection, which was also improved. Unfortunately, however, perhaps the necessary — according to some, very necessary and, in some cases, completely unnecessary — round two took place when pressure came from outside and, on the other hand, the President decided that it would be better to review the constitutionality of the laws. I fully supported this because it was done in good agreement both with the Constitutional Committee and with the relevant committees, i.e. the Defence and Administration Committee, and a few clarifications were made. These few points were, therefore, a prohibition of discrimination, which was written in both laws in such a way as to establish a general prohibition of discrimination in all forms of intelligence, and in this case there was a need to write down in more detail the types of discrimination which must not be carried out in the course of an inquiry. The second was the definition of the search conditions when considering the search criteria for intelligence activities. It was interesting that, at the same time, two judges were needed in both cases. So there are two judges when it comes to deciding whether or not to obtain a warrant for intelligence, but also where it is decided that intelligence is to be suspended. Originally it was only in that interruption, now it was also in that search warrant. One of the problems that we raised was the opening of these non-enquiry files, namely the priest, the doctor, the judge and the lawyer, and at that point we no longer objected when we were able to clarify the Minutes. In other words, whenever their data is opened, if you come manually processed to the point that such persons are involved, it must be written in detail in protocols, from which can be verified how many times these people's data, files have been opened. That's why we moved on. Throughout this debate, we have had to and have to think about how people's fundamental rights are realised and what is essential to our security situation, and this balance must be maintained. The great thing is that by the end of 2020 a report was registered with the committee and then a joint report by the end of 2021. This will enable us to assess, and when the Committee on Intelligence goes into action, so will the way in which this matter is going.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u139	Mr President! This set of intelligence legislation, its completion, is an important factor in strengthening and improving our overall security. Now we have a clear legal basis for intelligence. The general security situation has changed rapidly and is changing, and we need to have sufficient instruments to keep us up to date and our government has sufficient knowledge of the situation in which we are living. This work has been long-term and significant. It has already started during the previous parliamentary term, but the main work has taken place during this parliamentary term. I believe that the essential point here is that, although the law is based on a government proposal, this is not a government-oppositional arrangement, but is intended that, regardless of the government base, this whole body of legislation works and can be trusted. This is not subject to political conditions; it is necessary for this to work well in all situations and so that we can rely on this whole thing. This process was also interesting in the sense that there were many stages here. After all, the first step was to amend Article 10 of the Constitution and it required careful preparation. It was unanimously adopted here. There was a slight disagreement on urgency, but there was a sufficient majority to allow it to be adopted as a matter of urgency. The next step was the approval of the monitoring system, which includes judicial control and parliamentary control, and it has been adopted unanimously here. And you can say that, compared internationally, it is one of the most stringent and firm systems that is. In this respect, we can be very confident that this will also work well for fundamental rights. Now are these actual substance laws here, the Military Intelligence Act and the Civil Intelligence Act. It has to be said that it is a large and extensive package and contains a huge amount of detail. I have already mentioned in that debate when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on a proposal from the government, made the first statement that it is natural that, when the Constitutional Committee first interpreted Article 10(3) of the Constitution, it contained comments, especially since this whole is so extensive and contains a great deal of detail. In view of this, it is highly appreciated and respected what work the relevant committees carried out in the course of their report. I think you could say that it was quite a diploma work, even from the advisers, the secretary of both committees. In this respect, I find it unreasonable to say that there has been a failure. Very thorough and careful work has been done. The fact that this came for a new round was a certain assurance that everything was definitely right. I would like to say that when the Constitutional Council then assessed these committees' reports, there was no unconstitutionalism in it. There were a few comments, and I understand that both committees took all these comments into account, i.e. they acted accordingly. That we should be on a very good footing right now. As far as this other preparatory work is concerned, it was very interesting to be in the parliamentary monitoring group and to say that this group was relevant to the progress and content of the process. As the work progressed, many findings were then taken into account in the civil service working groups. We met dozens of times and received carefully prepared presentations and discussed them openly from different angles. It made it possible for a consensus to be found here. This was further worked out jointly on a number of points. When the government's proposals had already arrived, the work of the monitoring group was continued here, and that mattered. Well, now you can say this is the same thing. This is not a separate government and opposition, but a common one, because it must also last a long time for the future. Then it makes me want to say what the significance of this in terms of our overall security is. My own observation was that during this process, you can say that the military authorities and the civil authorities, i.e. the internal security and external security forces, were getting closer and more and more spoke the same language. There is a common vision, and it has its own meaning. I am not talking about confrontation, but about how these issues are not separate but are so often closely linked. Mr President! Then there has been a great deal of debate in the public debate on telecommunications intelligence. Many times that public debate has focused on it. It should be noted that when you go to a data intelligence which requires permission from a court, it is always the last resort. It's not a priority. It's a last resort. When I am in the Constitutional Committee and many things are discussed there, one term remains in mind, and that is proportionality. When we talk about this, it is important that we also speak proportionately. Mr President! Then there is a very important issue, and that is follow-up. In a sense, when we have come to new terrain, it is quite clear that after a few years things may arise that need to be corrected. Let's be open to those repairs, if they come. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u140	Madam President! The most important thing for the Blues is the security of the people — both the security of everyday life and then the more traditional security, as this intelligence legislation is now. As has been pointed out here, it has been a long-standing, careful preparation since 2013: first as a civil servant preparation, as a parliamentary monitoring group, as draft government laws and then as a careful parliamentary procedure. Just as Mr Tölli, Chairman of the Parliamentary Monitoring Group, is surprised at some of the comments that have been made publicly by the media — that there would have been some disillusionment here, when this went still in Parliament, let me say, for the second round, for the round of amendments — I too think it is extraordinary. If this is sloppy legislation, then I do not know what quality legislation would be. This is precisely high-quality legislative work, and I would also like to thank everyone who has been involved in this and on behalf of the blue people for their good work. Mr President, I shall try to go through what this civilian intelligence and military intelligence, this legislation, is about. It is obvious that Finland has been 15 years behind the main analogue countries. This is the only reason why this telecommunications intelligence legislation must now be adopted. We simply did not have any legislation on this issue. As far as the Civil Intelligence Act is concerned, it is precisely national security that justifies the gathering of information by the Protection Police, and these new intelligence powers in this regard would only be available to the Protection Police and also in force abroad. The new legislation will allow better information to be obtained on projects or activities that seriously threaten Finland’s national security. And when the representative Tölli said the word ‘proportional’,so also the word ‘seriously’isthis word.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u143	Madam President! Finland is finally getting the intelligence legislation it needs and deserves. The authorities have carried out the intelligence activities required for their statutory tasks, but until now they have no specific powers. This has been problematic in terms of the legal security of both the intelligence authorities and the subjects involved. In the committee reports, these legal bases and the framework for intelligence activities have been carefully mapped out. In particular, I would like to emphasise the role of the head of the Parliamentary Observatory, Mr Töll. He has played a central role in the fact that the preparation of intelligence legislation has progressed to this point. Mr President! The world has changed in an even more unpredictable way. In order to respond to threats and to support decisions, the situation picture must be established as quickly and accurately as possible. The powers of the authorities, their powers and the need for them are widely justified in the report. The measures in place must be flexible, excessively restrictive or subject to control would make them incapable of responding to the challenges of today's world. Personally, I would have been prepared to give the authorities even more powers than those described in the reports to intelligence. You have to remember that criminals are always one step ahead of the authorities. All the head start we give to harm our country and our citizens or property is too much. Acts and the preparation of acts that threaten life, health or legal order cannot enjoy any form of protection. This legislation seeks to respond to this criminal advantage, although it is impossible to do a law that is completely complete and takes account of all situations. Mr President! Man is inherently opposed to anything new and unknown. However, the regulation of intelligence is new only in Finland. Internationally, we have come a long way ahead of us. Threat images of citizen observation and mass surveillance are unnecessary intimidation, as the Finnish authorities do not have the resources or the need for extensive intelligence, such as consecrated intelligence organisations, which can be found in the great powers, for example. Professional protection also represents the old world and past ideals. For example, let the priest have absolute confidentiality. Imams are priests of Islam, but there are also sights in which Imams have been one of the greatest preachers of hatred. When the Theological Faculty of Helsinki begins teaching Islamic theology, we may face a situation in which Imams are recognized by society as priests of their own religion. However, no title can justify the threat to public security to enjoy legal protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u145	Mr President, ärade talman! It is certainly nice not only in this Chamber, but also in the home viewers and in the deliveries between those who follow this debate, to see that Parliament is able to engage in a dialogue with a broad consensus and all together to consider solutions to problems and not just to find differences, and this process of regulating intelligence laws has been quite exceptional, and for that all the parliamentary groups and the ministries and committees that have prepared the matter deserve praise. If we consider what intelligence laws are needed for and where the problems associated with them are, this world has changed quite a lot in ten years. In Sweden, when the FRA laws were enacted more than ten years ago, there was a major dispute as to whether such laws could be enacted at all and how the big brother could control telecommunications and how citizens' rights could be restricted. In reality, the world has already gone so far as to see that there is already so much different control of telecommunications that Finland cannot be the only country that does not even know what is going on there, nor can it itself acquire information, so, especially since there has already been such an activity in military intelligence, it has been obvious that we need intelligence laws that set clear limits on what can be asked, and when we are involved in the exchange of information, what intelligence is being collected and exchanged, so that Finland then also receives information from other countries and that at the same time we defend our own citizens. But as important as the question of what intelligence laws are needed for, it has also been to think about what it does not apply to and what rights it cannot grant, and there are also significant improvements in this law that we now have an overseer in a way that has never existed in Finland. In other words, the activities of the protection police are widely placed under parliamentary control, and then the role and role of the Intelligence Supervisor is quite extensive, and thus the activities under this legislation are also effectively monitored and the individual freedoms and rights of citizens are protected from the fact that, without justification, no one is subject to supervision. Perhaps the most problematic aspects of this legislation are the question of the extent to which a Finnish citizen may be subject to supervision in a way that does not adequately identify and justify control, and this issue of mass control has been a legitimate concern in the preparation of this issue and it has had to be resolved to ensure that no one is subject to unjustified public authority control. During this legislative process, these methods — both technical methods and principles that can be used — have been so restricted that, as a member of the Constitutional Committee itself, when I have compared the different kinds of intelligence laws in different Western countries, this legislation in Finland is also one of the top countries. This takes into account the practices of European courts and EU law on which rights cannot be granted to the controller and how these rights should be restricted. These have been very well taken into account in this legislation, and the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has clearly raised the need for such a supervisory activity as a criterion for the use of controls on telecommunications in different situations. All in all, the Greens — and I am speaking here on behalf of my group as a whole — sees this process of law-enforcement as successful and necessary for the Finns. It protects both individual freedoms and the necessary information and collection that is important for security. But what needs to be ensured in the future is that the operation of controls and a certain independent culture of control are ensured and that this legislation works in practice, so that, in future, both Parliament and these other authorities will act as independently and independently as possible, so that there will be no problem such as in some countries — After all, in the United States this debate has become quite inflamed — which then reflect on the extent to which the overseer has become a part of the interests of the controlled intelligence organization. So it is also important to emphasise here that the controller is independent of the supervisory authority he supervises, i.e. those who are placed under the supervision of the protection police are now independent of the protection police. Issues of this kind are important in order to maintain public confidence in the authorities that carry out the actual monitoring activities, i.e. the military authorities and the protection police. In conclusion, I would like to thank Mr Töll in particular, who has already left this Chamber. As President of the parliamentary group preparing for this preparatory work, Finland needs the know-how and experience of statesmen. During this Parliament there has been little ability and desire to exceed the Government—Opposition limit, but I would say that Töll's contribution has played a major role in the fact that in this area it has been able to do as with the very smooth flags and has been united in Finland in a way that tells us well that there is still parliamentary cooperation in Finland. This spirit has been realised in all the committees and also in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of which I am a member, and I am glad that the majority of the observations made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have been taken into account in these substance reports and legislation, even insofar as they have not been constitutionally binding. Finally, I agree with the assessment that this is a well-prepared package of legislation, but I would also not criticise the fact that there was an additional round of amendments of this kind in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, because if such a wide-ranging reform of the individual rights and human rights of people raises doubts that there is any doubt about the constitutionality, then the President must act as he did, that is to say, the matter was reviewed once again by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, so that there is no doubt that such confusion will remain. In fact, there were comments that were considered necessary for constitutional reasons, for serious reasons, even though they formally did not exceed the threshold for assessing constitutionality. In other words, there were important amendments and in that sense this round was justified in order to ensure that the value base of Finnish society has been widely taken into account in this legislative proposal that is now adopted and that the constitutionality has been properly assessed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u146	Madam President! I can tell you that there's even a little bit of stimulant in the air, at least the one who signed it. A total of approximately one year has been spent on this comprehensive package of laws in Parliament. I am allowed to represent the Committee on Defence here as Vice-President and then as a member of the Committee on Administration. And when it is said here again and again in this debate that during these parliamentary days this intelligence law has been built, it is certainly for the most part true, but the practical work on the building of the intelligence law has already begun in the last period, when I was vice-chairman of the committee in the last year in the Administrative Committee, and I do remember the effort and the attempt made by the previous government in relation to the intelligence law. Representative In his speech, Mr Tölli mentioned that there have been many stages of this process, as has been the case, and I would also like to express my thanks on my own part to all those involved in the preparation of this intelligence law both during the last period and this period: committee members, committee advisers, experts. And I would also like to highlight our press, which has followed this matter, commented — whether or not it has been liked, a valuable debate, all of it. The urgent handling of this law shows, as I said earlier, the growing confidence in the power of parliamentaryism, at least for myself. The motion is the government's, but the credit for this intelligence law belongs to Parliament. If a similar enthusiasm and, above all, the ability to cooperate, not only to hear but also to understand, had been in the adoption of the law on social welfare and health care, and even in the adoption of the law on regional reform, there would be no reason for me to believe that these laws have not been dealt with more than once in this Parliament. After all, there are many very difficult issues in the intelligence law — although it is often the case here in the debate that the difficult process, but it was well handled — which have, however, been unitedly resolved. The central part of this intelligence law is, among other things, the supervision of intelligence authorities. That is the most important part of this legislation, and that is how I see it. An extremely necessary, necessary and important part of the security of citizens is the powers of the authorities, but without the supervision of the increasing powers of the authorities we would not have such confidence in Parliament, nor, I dare say, in this context, in this intelligence law. When we give more powers to the authorities to guard our security — even with regard to the protection of the secrecy of Article 10 of the Constitution, even after the amendment of the law in these parliaments with an exceptional system — we must also ensure that the increasing powers of the authorities are properly monitored. And now this is happening. There have been a number of stages in the preparation of this law, and I would like to mention one phase of this separately. It is a process that took place this autumn in which we built the Committee on Intelligence and also the supervision of the authorities. I think that Parliament deserves a full score on the way in which Parliament resolved this election process for the members of the Committee on Intelligence. It ensured both the parliamentary role of the representative and, in a wise way, that Parliament also holds its own in the hands, that the Members elected to such a sensitive and sensitive committee also meet the level of confidence required for an extremely confidential task, while Parliament retains its own decision-making powers. This is where the minister left. I was already in the position to receive an answer from the Minister as to whether there is any change to the police law still under discussion within Parliament in relation to this intelligence law package. The Minister did leave the Chamber, but I hope that the situation will not arise again if we have to write the intelligence law afterwards. On several occasions this evening it has also emerged that the intelligence package is such a large package of foreign intelligence in the field of military intelligence and domestic intelligence in the field of civilian intelligence, and that is what we have discussed on the Committee on Administration's side, which is why the personal data element of the police law which is still under discussion in this House must also be compatible with this intelligence law. It is a good thing that this constitutional phase has been reviewed. It was a necessary process. It is also good to note in this context that both the Administrative Committee and the Committee on Defence did not receive any calls for proposals from the Constitutional Committee for amendments, but rather for statements, but these statements were also included here in the committee report, so the original series of reports on the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Administration was not so, and only the necessary fine-tuning has now been made — I am sure you can say that. The committee advisers and committees had already done good and high-quality work in the first instance. But this year’s journey has, of course, accommodated many other things. I will be forced to return to this final part of the floor a year ago. A year ago in February, when we began to deal with the intelligence law, with all the change that I made in the Socialist Group statement that I made, was not believed here in Parliament, yet after this year we have the parliamentary control of the subsidy as a whole, ensuring the ban on mass surveillance by increasing the level of detail, the composition of two judges in the district court, ensuring the freedom of the media by reporting, the stronger role of the intelligence commissioner in the district court and, above all, what I consider to be valuable, the report in the next period. The impact and implementation of the Intelligence Act and, above all, the work and tasks of the new, starting-up Committee on Intelligence will have to be carefully reviewed next season. It is good to remember already that we do not have a day's experience of what the work of the Committee on Intelligence is going to be like. It is therefore important to build clear working methods for the Committee on Intelligence at the outset and also to ensure an extremely high level of confidentiality. With these words
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u147	Madam President! I welcome this proposal and, as Mr Kari said, this work has also been carried out during the last parliamentary term and this has gone forward in good cooperation, and I really regard this as an important law through our overall security. National security is the basis for the protection police's data acquisition. The new intelligence powers would only be available to the protection police and will also be in force abroad. The new legislation will allow better information to be obtained on projects or activities that seriously threaten Finland’s national security. Currently, information can only be obtained if an individual person or an individual concrete crime is suspected in Finland. In the future, it would also be possible to obtain information on a serious threat to national security, which is not a crime or is taking place abroad, and also on a serious threat to national security, for which there is no known background or background. These are important reforms. It is clear that intelligence could only be used to obtain information on the most serious threats to national security. Of course, it is good to consider the benefits of this for the ordinary citizen. Ultimately, acts that undermine national security will affect ordinary citizens and their rights. Victims of terrorist acts can also be individuals, individual citizens. For example, espionage has adverse effects on the economy, which may even be reflected in the employment situation. Telecommunications intelligence is used to safeguard a stable and democratic society, which is in the interests of all Finns. Is it possible, then, that such an inquiry would be directed at Matti Meikäinen's e-mails? This is not a question of mass surveillance, it is a question of targeted intelligence. The aim is to apply for communications which are essential for the tasks of the protection police by means of limited search criteria. The proposal provides for a precise definition of how the allocation would take place. However, in the field of telecommunications intelligence, the authorities also receive information in the field of communications that is not related to a project threatening national security. This kind of information will be destroyed. Mr President! I consider this proposal to be necessary and timely — and even historic.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u148	Mr President! This has been the subject of a good debate in the past on civilian intelligence and then on this military intelligence. Now there is also a separate section on this, and one of us has been going through these and we have also dealt closely with them in the Committee on Defence. In particular, the aim is to improve Finland's own ability to seize this inquiry, which is targeted at our country, and to bring these powers into line with other countries, so that other partner countries do not have to deal with, for example, our intelligence and control of telecommunications, but we are able to intervene ourselves in any criminal intelligence directed at Finland by outside actors. Above all, it is important that we now be able to monitor developments in the security environment and produce information in support of the highest security policy leadership and military decision-making. In particular, military intelligence gives advance warning of the military threat to Finland and supports the important work of the authorities in this work. What has, of course, been most important in this public debate is that it is not a question of mass control, for which a country such as Finland has absolutely no resources, but of targeted action. This will not be a violation of human rights, which was also the subject of debate during this political preparation, but will be closely monitored by the State, and important articles were made in our legislation. It is also essential that strong parliamentary preparations were made in this whole legislative process and that almost unanimously it was possible to move this entire intelligence legislation forward. We must thank Mr Töll in particular for the fact that this preparation has been made in such a good spirit and that it has been widely understood that this intelligence legislation is necessary and that we have finally made progress this period until the implementation of this law. It is a pity that this was not achieved in the past, but, fortunately, this necessary package of legislation was put through during this reign of Sipilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u149	Mr President! I also think it is a good thing that this bill is now finally being discussed by Parliament and it is still going through this period, because it would be quite classless if the amendment of the Constitution had been made as a matter of urgency, and then ordinary legislation would be dragged over the parliamentary term and would go to the next government. Then the purpose of amending its constitution would by no means have been fulfilled. I myself have been involved in this process since the beginning, or quite from the outset, in the parliamentary monitoring group when these legislative proposals were being prepared, and then later in the parliamentary monitoring group also as a representative of my party. I am quite familiar with this process, with all the figures mentioned earlier, with regard to the details of this Committee on Intelligence and others. I'm glad it's finished here. I would like to draw some attention to this latest turn of events when these legislative proposals were withdrawn once again from Parliament. I do not believe that this process was particularly satisfactory in the sense that hopefully it will not become a practice in the future for Parliament's processes and legislation to be addressed by external influences through messages and vague shouts sent in social media and then Parliament will react and jump at the straw of these parties. I do not think that this should be the case, and this law was not the best example of Parliament's authority in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u150	Mr President! That is where Mr Jarva said that these laws were already being drafted in the previous period, and indeed the Christian Democrats played a very strong role in it. At the time, our Minister for the Interior, Päivi Räsänen, was one of the ministers who tried to bring this legislative package forward in that government, but the then government base did not allow it. Of course, since then, we have wondered how useful it could have been for us to have understood in the previous period that we need such legislation, so that we are not merely on the intelligence of so-called friendly states when we need intelligence to prevent such serious crime. If you really think about the cases in Turku, or now that we are talking about these Isis fighters and their return, then that is exactly the kind of information we would have had if these legislative proposals could have been taken forward during the last government term. Fortunately, however, it has been understood that the security environment has changed in a strong way around Finland and globally, of course, in the world, and that we are looking for other comparative legislation. When you think about the discussion here in Parliament, you have certainly paid a great deal of attention to the fact that the protection of the message of the individual, the normal individual, and its secret will certainly remain. It's not about mass surveillance. When this parliamentary committee was set up, I believe that all possible precautions have been taken to ensure that this could ever be used in any way arbitrarily against ordinary honourable citizens. The concerns expressed here on behalf of Mr Mustajärvi are not something I can understand in that sense. Of course, we must only hope that in general we have the same type of consensus as we have in this area of security that can become a practice in many other matters. In my previous speech, I reminded you of the fact that the opposition was so carefully involved in this legislation. Tölli did an excellent job, and then they made sure that everyone was involved. It was certainly not just a follow-up group, but it went through all the possible views, and then the chairmen of the parties were also used in their own discussion group, which went through the fact that we all know where we are going. This process has been extremely careful and we can certainly thank the government for it. In this way perhaps there should have been a few other legislative proposals and large packages trying to pass, so perhaps we would have been a little different in the end. But you can thank the whole House for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u151	Mr President! Mr Essayah described the situation that occurred during the last parliamentary term. It is true that I myself think that perhaps there is a little too much in Finland that something has to happen before things move forward, and in a certain way here too. Representative Essayah referred to the cases in Turku. I am not quite sure whether this legislation, this inquiry, could have prevented it. In my opinion, there would not be, but it is possible that some signals, some signs, would have appeared. But that is why I actually asked for our decision-making in Finland a little too often to be bothered by the fact that action is taken and taken only when something has happened and happened. This has happened in many different cases, and often these events have been unpleasant, sad and serious. It is high time that this intelligence legislation was put in place. As I said earlier, in Sweden, for example, plans have been made to prevent a terrorist attack through a law of this type. Let us hope that this will work equally well and efficiently in Finland in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u152	Honorable Mr. Speaker! Mr Heinonen referred to the FRA law, the experience of Sweden. That was where I was speaking about the toilet, and it was beginning to run out of time. I didn't quite have time to say as far as I'd like to put it in the books. It is actually a message that, when the intelligence law package is adopted and a Committee on Intelligence is set up and an intelligence supervisory representative is now elected to it, then we must in Parliament, whoever representatives are here then, very carefully build the way in which that committee works, the order of work: not only with technical questions like this, how to ensure that confidential information is kept within the committee, but also in what way things are going through. One thing is the ex-post assessment of the successes of the intelligence law, which Mr Heinonen referred to in relation to the FRA, and the way in which the powers of the authorities that Parliament is providing here are being reviewed, and then it is important: the way in which they are reported to Parliament, and hence to the public, so that we all have the impression that we have done and also succeeded in doing the best intelligence law in the world — both in terms of the powers of the authorities to ensure national security and the security of citizens, as well as in terms of sustainable legislation on the fundamental rights of citizens and human rights. We must also be able to weigh these matters here on the Parliament's side, even though this is a legislation which contains very sensitive information, which is part of the Committee on Intelligence, not on the Parliament's side. But we must find a way in which, however, we can reasonably deal with the issues in the national public debate and ensure that we have succeeded in doing this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u153	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Defence, PuVM 9/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u154	Mr President! The aim of the proposal is to improve the detection and prevention of international threats that are serious for Finland’s national security. For this reason alone, this proposal is necessary. Military intelligence is directed at activities outside Finland, and its main targets are state actors. In the future, the Defence Forces would have the authority in Finland and abroad for personal intelligence and information system intelligence as well as for telecommunications intelligence. The defence forces are already conducting intelligence — it is no surprise to anyone — but there are no specific powers for intelligence provided for by law. That is also why it is good that this law is now being enacted. The background is, among other things, a change in the safety environment. In a weakened security environment, the current mandates of military intelligence cannot sufficiently support the highest level of state leadership in foreign, security and defence policy decisions or prepare to combat serious threats to Finland’s national security. At the moment, telecommunications intelligence is not possible. In the future, the Defence Forces would have powers in Finland and abroad in the field of personal data and information system intelligence and telecommunications intelligence. These powers already exist in the control countries. Intelligence powers improve preparedness as they contribute to improving the situation picture and early warning time available to the Defence Forces and the country’s political leadership. It should be in the interests of all of us, and from now on it will be. This law does not apply to the ordinary citizen either, as military intelligence must not be directed towards activities other than military activities or serious threats to national security. Mr President! I consider this law as important as the law in the previous reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u155	Mr President! As far as military intelligence is concerned, I have already taken the floor in that previous paragraph when we talked about this overall reform of the intelligence laws, but I will also take the floor on this point insofar as we are talking about military intelligence in particular. When we discussed this in the Committee on Defence, it was very important to note that our partner countries are already making this inquiry with regard to Finland. In Sweden, for example, the FRA, Försvarets radioanstalt, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence, can follow the Finnish data flow, but in Finland this has not been possible. It is very important that we also have our own intelligence and control in this regard, the kind of intelligence we have in our country, so that we can then get the authorities to know in time how we can prevent, but above all, how we can intervene in this criminal activity and in an attempt to threaten national security. Our security environment has indeed changed, and we must be aware and have the ability to respond to these modern threats. In particular, this Military Intelligence Act proposes to provide for the principles, operational guidance and supervision of military intelligence targets and intelligence activities in the Defence Administration. Our military intelligence officers would be the Chief Staff of the Defence Forces and the Defence Forces Intelligence Agency. As indicated in the previous speech, intelligence has certainly been carried out in the past, but it is important that we now also have clear legislation on this issue and that certain human rights can also be ensured in this regard that we do not leave any doubt as to how the authorities will then act in the monitoring of telecommunications. Above all, it has been very important that we do not have mass control, but that this activity is targeted. Indeed, we would not have enough resources for any mass control when there has been such fear, and it is important that we also have very close and very strong control over how this activity is carried out in Finland. It is very important that this legislation is now finally implemented and that our authorities, and in particular our military authorities, receive guidelines for action in this regard. I would also like to thank the government for taking forward this good legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u156	Mr President! Indeed, we can thank not only the government, but also the whole House in this case. This work has been done, just like that civil intelligence law, in cooperation and in a good way. As far as this law is concerned, I understand that there has been much less debate, of course because of the subject matter of this law, and in that sense these privacy issues have not had to be dealt with to such an extent as then on the civil inquiry side. And if I have understood the discussions over the last period, this military intelligence law would probably have been quicker to go through then, but of course this is the whole. As has been well mentioned here in the speeches, surely military intelligence has always been done in some way, even though there has not been any legislation to do with it, and in that sense it is of course important that we then find that legislation and have a whole. These two legislations constitute a whole, and in that sense the simultaneous implementation of this legislative process has, of course, been extremely important. Thank you, indeed, to all those involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u157	Mr President! As Vice-President of the Committee on Defence, I have been able to participate in this committee work on many five occasions, and it is nice to thank the committee colleagues present for their excellent work. During the process of a little more than a year we heard more than 100 experts on this defence package,the Military Intelligence Act,and while the Intelligence Act was at this stage civilian as well as military,I could use such an early-stage comparison of the Bicycle Biker,the fact that at this stage,there appeared to be a great deal of help,on the one hand,and on the other hand, on the other hand, on the one hand, but on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other, on the As I said earlier, on this military side, we must also go through carefully in the future in this Republic how this law remains up-to-date. As is stated here in the committee report and in the explanatory memorandum of the law, even on this military side there is a rapid development and so that Finnish military intelligence is able to provide sufficient up-to-date and accurate information to the top state leadership behind the decision-making process, this process must be ensured each year by its own evaluation work, which will then be carried out within the Defence Administration. At least now, for my part, I can say that I also have a very strong confidence in the expertise and expertise of our authorities, and I would like to take this opportunity to say that this parliamentary debate will also be followed by a number of military experts and an expert from the Ministry of Defence, and I would also like to thank the experts for the expertise that has been available to the committee. We are making a completely new law that we Finns do not yet have experience of, and in this context it has been important to be able to rely on the information we have received from experts to support decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u158	Mr President! The Vice-President of our committee, Mr Kari, thanked us for our work, but it was also absolutely possible to thank the Vice-President, who, in fact, was still taking on a great deal of responsibility at the same time as Mr Kanerva was on sick leave. The cooperation was good, seamless. I am not too afraid to take a stand on what has happened here in the last few weeks, but I dare say that our work was good and thorough. That is why I would also like to say thank you to our committee, but also to the authors and draftsmen of this military intelligence legislation at the Ministry. They have done an excellent job of first doing this whole and then working with the committee. I would also like to pay very great tribute and thank our excellent committee adviser, Heikki Savola, who did an excellent job with us. It can be said that after over 100 expert consultations and long weeks of working together, the whole thing will take a lot of time from all quarters. It also took an excellent look at this, which, in the last few moments, still came to try it out. Now is the time and the time to bring this legislation into force. Therefore, I will end my speech here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u159	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report TyVM 17/2018 vp by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u160	Mr President! The Working Time Act is one of the most important laws governing the overall quality of life of those who work. It is therefore a pity that this law has not been prepared with sufficient care and that, for example, the impact assessments of the proposal are very inadequate. Assessments of changes in the level of occupational safety and health, gender impact assessments and assessments of family life and child effects are poorly carried out. In addition, the law leaves open a wide range of interpretation questions. The numerous shortcomings of this law are highlighted in our protest, which is shared by the Social Democrats, the Left Alliance, the Greens and the Basic Finns. We are making a number of changes to the articles and two statements. In my speech, I will list the points that we cannot accept in this draft law. However, there are so many shortcomings that I will probably have to ask for another speech, because I want these things to be recorded in the Minutes as well. Firstly, we want to highlight the problem of the different nature of the draft law in relation to the Working Time Directive and, in particular, the scope. The expert hearings call into question the approach of a closed list of sectors where the Working Time Act does not apply. There may be sectors which do not yet exist and which will have a working time autonomy in the future. Such exhaustive lists are problematic in the sense that they are bound at some time. The corresponding list of the Working Time Directive is not closed. The Government's proposal for a working time law is not the same as the directive's approach. Secondly, the aim of the draft Working Time Act is, among other things, to update the Working Time Act to reflect changes in the way in which work is done, i.e. that time for working time is no longer place-specific. This means, among other things, that all so-called telework is counted as working time. The response of the Ministry of Labour to the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities to this draft law does not necessarily support this objective. Therefore, it would have been good for the committee to say that the amendment to the government proposal is interpreted as meaning that if the working time law applies to the employee, the working time law will apply in its entirety and that all hours worked, irrespective of where they were made, will be counted in working time. This is going to be a little unclear. Thirdly, we are opposed to an additional working quota per period of equalisation of average working hours. It undermines daily working time protection and the right to private life. At present, an employee can refuse to work more than eight hours, as this means asking for an employee’s consent to work overtime. We propose a revision of the regulation so that the daily overtime limit is maintained within eight hours and if, after more than eight hours of work, it is still necessary to have work carried out, the employee must be given an overworked consent. The fourth criticism we have raised concerns periodic work. Sectional work is particularly relevant for social and health workers. The aim of the reform of the Working Time Act is to prepare for work in the future, and now it is time to give up the periodic work developed in 1946 and not extend its scope, as is now being done. Periodic work is a form of working time that discriminates against women, with poor levels of health and safety at work. Periodic work puts employees at a disadvantage compared to the 24/7 work in general working hours. All 24/7 work can be organised as shift work, where the protection of working time is better. In this context, it is also worth remembering that the ILO Convention of 149 medical staff obliges the harmonisation of working conditions. Therefore, in our protest, we call for preparations to be started to give up the periodic work. This is important if we are to increase the attractiveness of the care sector. The fifth point to be corrected in the draft law is the regulations on night work and day rest. Strengthening employee engagement opportunities in their own working hours improves the conditions for reconciling work and other life. On the other hand, the fact that working hours are becoming more irregular and the possibility of working shift in new sectors can increase the health damage caused by working hours. The increase in the minimum period of daily rest from nine to eleven hours is a positive reform. However, the bill states that, for reasons related to the organisation of the work, the daily rest in periodic work can only be nine hours. In practice, this may lead to a high number of shift intervals of less than 11 hours in periodic work. Short intervals are known to be associated with fatigue, insomnia, accidents and absenteeism. Short intervals also make it difficult to reconcile work and other life. The law should therefore define the limits of how often the daily rest of a person who is working part-time can be reduced to less than eleven hours, so that in reality the protection of working time is improved and not reduced. In our objection, we propose that a daily rest may be temporarily reduced to less than eleven hours at most twice a week and never on consecutive days. In addition, the procedure must always be specified and justified in writing. According to the draft law, regular working time arrangements can be agreed on in certain situations in clearly longer periods of adjustment. Experts consider that the four-month adjustment period for the maximum working time is too long. Such a period of smoothing allows for long weekly working hours. That is why we object to the six-week period of compensation to the maximum working time. Moreover, night work should not be increased. Finland is already Europe's top country in terms of flexibility in working time and even the number of night workers is Europe's top. Even with sufficient rest periods, night work is a health risk and society should therefore organise work in such a way that night work is limited to what is necessary. Under existing legislation, night work can be carried out in periodic work. The Government’s proposal states that the right to have night work regularly carried out would apply not only to work organised as part of a period of work, but also to all work that could be organised as part of a period of work. We believe that this extension is poorly justified and that the right to have regular night work carried out should be limited to work actually organised as part of the periodic work. Similarly, the decision of the Government on the carriage of night-working workers must be maintained and not removed, as the Government proposes. And now I ask the chairman: Can I continue? Or should I come back another time? [First Vice-PresidentMauri Pekkarinen : Well, if you can find out in the ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u165	So next up is Congressman Kontula. — A very polite question from the representative.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u166	Mr President! I too have a number of concerns about this new working time law, but I will try to deal with matters at a more general level that does not require another intervention. The aim of the Working Time Act is to respond to changes in working life, and indeed there has already been much of them since the Working Time Act was enacted in the 1960s. However, the result is quite cautious. The Government's proposal does not comment on the groundwork or the protection of working time of self-employed persons in any way. It is not seeking solutions to the protection of working time for many people living in parallel work, and it is also proceeding very cautiously on issues of job separation and does not address the key problems of the Working Time Act which are clearly identified and which can no longer be regarded as belonging to this time and world. Here, for example, I am referring to the granting of additional work consent from time to eternity in connection with the conclusion of a contract of employment, which in practice leads to a situation in which a person, if he does not get to work at short notice when the employer asks him to do so, can refuse work almost at any time by giving a personal reason relating to his or her own life. It is no longer a day for employees to tell the employer about their personal weddings and funerals because they are unable to anticipate their own working hours in any way. There are good proposals in the amendment to the Working Time Act, such as an experiment on flexible working time, but cautiously, very cautiously, and partly in the wrong direction. When we start reforming working time, the key and most important question is, of course, what kind of labour market we want. The Working Time Act affects our labour market as a whole, and on average it plays a major role in the organisation of everyday life in society and in the rhythm we have in society. Well, according to the studies, healthy working time is the kind of work that is done during the day, which is predictable in such a way that people are able to organise their work outside the workplace in a reasonable way, and which guarantees the necessary rest periods. Well now, this proposal of the Working Time Act encourages night work more than before, increases the unpredictability of working time and reduces opportunities for day-to-day rest. You may ask how many of us would like to be treated by a nurse who has had time to sleep, for example, two hours in the last 24 hours — not me. Together, these changes will create trends in our labour market where night work is likely to increase and the compensation from it will decrease and the health risks associated with working time will increase. The changes are quite micro-level for individuals but statistically significant in large population groups. Above all, I think that the big, important question is: is there a fragmented working life — that is, a working life in which people go to work at any time of the week, at any time of the week, at Christmas and at Midsummer, when there is a christening of their children — such a world and a working life that is in some way coherent with the everyday and happy life of families? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u169	Mr President! I listened to what colleagues have said and I must say that in this amendment to the Working Time Act it is good to note that we are making legislative changes in society which indirectly affect the need for changes in working time legislation. In fact, I believe that only the Left Alliance and the Christian Democrats in this Chamber thought that we should not go out in the opening hours of shops in the way we did it. We were the only parties to anticipate that it would be good for society to have a rhythm that would allow families to have those holidays together, plus what it also causes for example on the side of day care. In other words, the need for continuous round-the-clock care and the like will automatically come with this type of legislative change. But when Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen has now taken the floor and you have discussed this matter carefully there in the committee, I would really like to ask two questions here as a colleague, and I hope that perhaps you will be able to answer them in your speech. As I understand it, the extraordinary working time arrangements relating to two areas of life, the working time arrangements relating to the different camp activities of the parishes and the competition and camping activities of various sports organisations, also emerged in connection with the examination of this law. These workers, who are in camps as workers, are quite impossible, for example, in connection with a camp on an island, for example, to think that we could leave there to spend so-called leisure time or something, but they are there all the time under camp conditions. On the other hand, if we started counting these hours on the principle that all the time we spend in a two-week confession camp, for example, is working time, then we would have parishes as well as sports organisations going bankrupt at that point, if everything were as if it were working time to pay. In that sense, I would now have liked to have heard what solutions or wordings were made in relation to these. I remember that sports organisations, for example, came to be the signal that quite a few people experienced this abroad, for example, as a coach, as a reward for the work that has been done. Of course, there are also the hours to be paid for, but quite a few felt that they would also be prepared to spend their spare time on these situations. Many also felt that the possibility of being associated with, for example, a top event, to follow it and the like came from its kind of counterpart. But I would like to hear what the debate was on these issues in committee and whether these parties were then consulted because of these special working time arrangements.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u170	Mr President! Mr Kontula kindly agreed to check the reply to Mr Essayah. They were heard, but now we are checking what was the final form of what was decided there. This was indeed a matter of debate. Mr President! There have therefore been nine misstatements in our objection, and in my previous speech I have reached paragraph six. So our sixth observation is about backup. According to the proposal, reserve time would be a rest period for an employee, even if during that period he was obliged to be available and to arrive upon receiving an invitation to work. The right to uninterrupted day-to-day rest would not apply to work carried out during standby, and the replacement day-to-day rest would in practice rarely be given. This, too, is a good argument as to why it is worthwhile to give up temporary work. We also require that the work done during the reserve period is always additional or overtime also in the periodic work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u173	Mr President! First of all, to answer Mrs Essayah's question: in those respects, when it comes to the camp activities of sports organisations or training activities, there was no change in the committee's proposal to the government. The law should thus be worded as follows: ‘This law does not apply to the work of a worker working in an unprofitable community,inasmuch as he participates in an event, competition or camp activity,which is the subject of a national collective agreement within the meaning of Article34, which In other words, it has been settled that when circumstances are so exceptional that it makes no sense to bring them under the Working Time Act, then operators can agree on other arrangements by collective agreement. Rather, a slight change in this page was made to the question of the extent to which persons carrying out religious activities and tasks may be considered to be excluded from the Working Time Act. In the government’s proposal, religious deliveries and tasks were excluded from the Working Time Act, and the term ‘workplaces’ wasexcluded because of the fact that in such a more limited meaning the Directive is more equivalent to the Directive and the focusresistably only to church functions which are not clearly possible to regulate working time by means of a legislative definition. Let me add something to my previous speech: There are some truths, largely from the dark, far ahead of the invention of the art of writing, that guide the lives of all of us. One of them is that it is normal for a person to sleep at night and work and other activities then during the day. The second is that it is normal to spend time with loved ones, people enjoying being with their family members and friends. These are the practices we have throughout history, which are strongly protected from one culture to another. In ancient Greece, in the Middle Ages, in the new continent, there are examples of how the maximum length of the working day has been from sunrise to sunset, and how communities have marked separate holidays, when work is not just a right, but an obligation to take time off. In other words, communities have even banned and severely sanctioned work on these days off. Since this tradition is so widespread in human communities, I think it should be taken very seriously that such practices should be dismantled. There should be very strong reasons for that. It is understandable that childbirth assistance must be provided in the middle of the night if a child is born in the middle of the night, but there is no need to go shopping for new shoes in the middle of the night. Communities should strive to protect the time from which, through long historical experience, knowledge and continuous learning from generation to generation, it has been found that this is a good thing for people to live in. I have spoken about this before in this Chamber, and I am very concerned about a trend in which the aim is to turn society into a 24/7 society in which these are no longer relevant. It may have such extensive community effects, so extensive effects on how we live here, how our brains are built up, how we view one another, that we do not know and do not understand what we are doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u174	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Kontula for these clarifications. It is very important that these working hours in camp conditions are little more regulated than they are in this kind of ideological work. In that sense, however, there is a satisfactory way for the parties to resolve this issue. Then these certain religious acts, which were also raised here: It is certainly clear that if a person wants to confess or wants to have a discussion of the soul, then these will happen at the moment a person experiences this. And it cannot be thought that in such a situation, for example, the pastor of the congregation would appeal to the Working Time Act and would say that this is not right for him at the moment. Of course, common sense has been used in this regard. When Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen raised these numerous shortcomings, I must say that, when I was in the European Parliament, this working time directive was such a 'duration jam'. In other words, when it was always stated in any form that it was not just moving forward, because there were so many different Member States,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u175	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 27/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u176	Mr President! Indeed, this government proposal is about amending the fishing law in order to improve the protection of endangered and declining fish species or stocks and to improve the opportunities for the Sámi and the residents of Upper Lapland to pursue a fishing culture. The legislative amendments proposed and their objectives are to be welcomed, but the task of improving these matters still remains after this bill, and that is why there has been cause for protest. With regard to Article 10 of the Fisheries Act, the amendment of the Government's draft law to the Upper Lapland fishing permit will improve the fishing opportunities of all local residents and the fishing opportunities of the Sámi culture and industry in the territory of the municipalities of Enontekio, Inari and Utsjoki, i.e. to return to the pre-2016 status of the former legislation. Sámi fishing enjoys the protection of the Sámi culture guaranteed by the Constitution. Mr President, yesterday we also received a statement from the District Court of Lapland, which, by its decision, has rejected all charges of illegal fishing by the Sámi of the Uts River on the Vetsi River and the Utsjoki River, claiming that they have practiced a culture guaranteed by the Constitution, which essentially includes fishing in those areas. According to the District Court, the limitations of Article 10 of the Fisheries Act, which was amended a few years ago, are also contrary to human rights treaties binding on Finland, which safeguard the right of the Sami people as indigenous people to practise their own culture. The Sámi Act defines the Sámi region as the home region of Sámi, namely Enontekiö, the municipalities of InarijaUtsjoki and the province of Lapland in the municipality of A map of the boundaries of the Sámi home region is also published in the Regulation or in the Annex thereto. In accordance with the principle of equality, when introducing an amendment to Article 10 of the Fisheries Act, the area of Lapland should have the same fishing rights as the rest of the Sámi region. Nor should the right of Sámi residents living outside the Sámi area to engage in cultural fishing in their traditional areas be restricted. The Sámi Chambers have therefore appealed to Article 27 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights of the United Nations, according to which a person belonging to minorities must not be denied the right to enjoy his or her own culture together with other members of his group. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also refers to the UN Convention, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also refers to a number of previous opinions by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which state, among other things, that fisheries, along with reindeer husbandry, are one of the economic activities of Sámi, which are closely linked to the culture of the Sámi. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also stated that fishing is part of a traditional Sámi life-form without restrictions on residence. Mr President! Therefore, while the proposed amendment of the law on Article 10 of the Fisheries Act improves the rights of the Sámi in the municipalities of Upper Lapland, it must be stated that this improvement is selective in terms of targeting the Sámi. Those Sámi whose municipality of residence is not Enontekio, Inari or Utsjoki remain excluded from the cure.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u181	Mr President! This reform of the Fisheries Act is very good even because on 5.7.2017 I took an initiative to determine the financial value of endangered fish. Once again, my initiative for action is heading towards the finish line, thanks to the experts. Then the point is that the pit is not an endangered species of fish. It does not need to be taken into account here in any way, i.e. in determining the value of this fish. For example, if I go south from Joensuu to Pyhäselkä to swim at 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. in the evening, I will definitely have 30 kilos of pike in the boat and about 10 kilos of pike, perch and others on top. So even on these grounds, I could say that the pike on those waters is almost the more endangered fish than the pike, and this is because the pike has been heavily planted in the waters of Saimaa and will soon begin to eat away all the other fish. You can tell from the ice-fishing games. In the '90s, when there were ice fishing races in these areas, the profits were about 15 kilos, only perch. At the moment, it is good if someone gets 5 kilos in those games, and I guarantee that the same fishermen there will still be fishing as before, which means that the skill has hardly deteriorated. And indeed, if On the south side of Joensuu, swimming races are held in these waters, where there are about 50 boats, and each of them after eight hours of swimming will have about 20 kilos of water and, indeed, in proportion to a lot more than a pike. If there are fewer areas in a particular area, then, of course, those fishing areas can then be regulated in the waters, but I do not see any reason why the hill should have some value. It's enough that it's 27 euros, filed in Hakaniemi Square. I've got about 30 kilos in the freezer. There is no perch there, because I have eaten the perch. Of course, I can sell it for the rest of my life.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u182	Mr President! It is good that measures are being taken to eradicate poaching. I have received numerous contacts on these very occasions, which is why our endangered species are not protected or protected in such a way as, for example, a Saimaan noose or certain species of birds. I think it is a good thing that this considerable fee will now also come if we catch the poaching of endangered fish. But if I understood correctly — and I would like to ask now that there are people here in the committee — then, in fact, the problem arose in 2012 when there was a correction in the legislation that wanted to tackle the supposed excesses of these fisheries supervisors. At that time, a clarification was made to the law, where the fisheries supervisors were converted into persons assisting the authorities, and this in fact changed the fact that when the fisheries supervisor comes to the river or lake or to the beach and the guy comes to the beach and then, for example, it was on his shoulder, he has a cooler in one hand, so the fisheries supervisor is not allowed to ask him to open the cooler with the 2012 legislation. Of course, he doesn't have a fish hanging around like a cartoon in that hook anymore, but it's in a cooler, a backpack, or a back drawer of a car. This reform, with which the Ministry of Justice wanted to tackle the excesses in 2012, in fact made our fisheries supervisors almost powerless in these situations, and at the moment, in many cases, police are needed. And is it really the task of the police to monitor this? Perhaps it is in that sense, if it is a highly endangered species, but I think it is high time that we also made a correction for these fisheries supervisors back to what it was before this 2012 correction. It is unreasonable that such a person who has been entrusted with the task of controlling poaching cannot ask for a cooler, a backpack to be opened, and I also think that the crates of a boat or the trunk of a car should be checked if there is a clear reason to suspect that a guy comes from a boat with a cooler. I would ask the members of the committee if anyone could tell me if this major problem of fisheries control arose.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u183	Mr President! I would like to say to Mr Heinos that this issue was not raised at all and that the committee has not discussed it or consulted experts. It is a pity that there is no correction in the government proposal in this respect, if there is such a deficiency. I'm not familiar with this. Mr President! I would like to pick up a little bit on those rapid spaces which I have already mentioned in my previous speech. In this respect, the committee is proposing in its report a statement for approval by Parliament, in which, in addition to a clear and indisputable correction of the legal situation of the rightholders of fishing rights in farms, the requirement to assess the need for a change of law in order to strengthen the rights of minority shareholders in Upper Lapland has now been included. And this latter matter, which relates to Upper Lapland, is a matter of great controversy and considerable ambiguity, which I think should be resolved in civil law. That is why I will make a clearer statement in this law when it is adopted, which will require the Council of State to start working on amendments to the fisheries legislation, which would bring together the provisions on fishing rights in a single law and clarify the legislation in such a way as to safeguard the status of the holders of fishing rights for these vessels and the right to participate in fisheries areas under Article 23 of the Fisheries Act. Mr President! As regards the rights of the Sámi people, I will make a statement that Parliament would require the Government to take urgent action to clarify the legal status of Sámi residents outside the Sámi home region, as defined in Article 4 of the Upper Lappish District Act, in their traditional regions of Sámi. I will also propose an amendment to this question of the loss of rights, so that it is added to the list of species in Article 119, and I would say, Mr President, that although the dome stocks are viable and widespread,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u186	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Halmemenpää, for lighting up the situation. And, in fact, because I have not taken part in Parliament's deliberations on this law, I would like to speak again on this really big problem, which is still uncorrected here. And, Mr President, if I am elected here for the next term, I will continue to work towards this, and this will then be corrected when we do not have time to correct it. However, this problem came with the legislation of 2012. Now, in this proposal, which is under discussion, I welcome the fact that fish are defined, as Mr Halmemenpää described, these so-called list prices. The price of lake salmon, for example, can rise to up to EUR 10000. It is a significant sum, and it will certainly curb poaching. But if, in practice, it cannot be caught, as in the case of the so-called trap — it is otherwise well suited for this fisheries debate, this parable, which is verbatim, from the top of the trap — then it is possible to obtain such a sanction. Here I found Yle’s very good news, in which this problem was actually described, and here it is stated that every parent fish, for example, that rises to the Pielis River, is valuable because the species is on the brink of extinction. Efforts have been made to revive this position for decades. And then here it says that A study by the Natural Resources Agency found that current poaching is in fact a greater threat to lake salmon than, for example, the turbines in hydroelectric power plants. Secret fishing is a serious threat to these endangered species of ours. This news, produced by Anu Rumelli, has been published on Yle’s website in August 2017 under the heading ‘Fisheries keep watchers mock—knowing fishing loopholes in the law’. Here he is interviewing the North Karelian fisheries supervisor Sami Kurenniemi, who sighs deeply to the reporter and says we have to catch him. And he gives three examples in this case: In the first example of the boat, a cooler and virvels. According to the news, two persons are boating in a closed area for salmon spawning — a closed area for salmon spawning. So there are refreshments on the boat and the cooler, and the fishing supervisor has seen the boat ride by the river. The watcher can stop the boat and ask if the people know they're in the prohibition zone. When requested, persons do not open a cooler for storing fish. The watcher has not seen people put lures in the water, and there is no catch to be seen, so the boaters continue their journey. The absurd situation in such a place that our legislation does not allow for revision. Another example of this Yle case is the situation where game cameras that control poaching record images of a person walking along the river in a closed area with a virvel. The person has a plastic bag in his hand, the contents of which look like a big fish. The fishing supervisor must not check the contents of the plastic bag, nor can it be accused of poaching on the basis of walking pictures. It's a crazy situation. Third, hiding the prey in the trunk. The fishing supervisor has seen from a distance that there are two fishermen on the shore of the prohibition zone. As soon as the watcher gets closer, the fishermen will be gone. At the end of the nearby sand road, there is a car for these fishermen near which there are two people. People say they weren't fishing. The watcher has no right to ask you to open the trunk of a car. These were thus made possible by the reform of the Fisheries Act 2012. Of course, at that time, we had perhaps a bit of wild fisheries control from the other angle. Anyone could be a fishing overseer, and there were excesses. But now this correction has put this in an impossible situation, and these good financial values, which are in themselves worthy of support and vital for endangered fish, are important for saving them. But if they do not actually come into everyday life, they will remain the so - called dead letter. And, Mr President, I am sorry that this issue was not addressed by this government proposal or by the committee either. I raise my hand, I am not a member of that committee, but I was not alert enough to all the government's proposals to bring it up myself. But as promised, let's do it next season.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u187	Mr President! Representative Heinonen gave good examples. But when the boat is in the water and it's got some tunes on it, it's not necessarily the person who's fishing. It might be going to his friend's cabin, which means he can't be punished for this. And if the car's in the parking lot and it's got two men with a tune, they're not fishing. They may be going fishing or fishing, but if you go to the District Court and even the Court of Appeal, there will hardly be a verdict that it was a fishing offence. So you can't get a person to open that trunk, either. This is how it goes, Congressman Heinonen. The first thing you have to do with binoculars is to see if you are a boater or a fish on the beach or what it is doing there. After that, you will only be able to intervene in that situation. That is how difficult it has also become for this fisheries control. That said, there may have been excesses in fishing control. Of course there will be excesses when there are different people under control. But even in fisheries control, a certain experiment must be carried out by a fisheries supervisor before he can even become a fisheries supervisor. And this has, of course, contributed to reducing the number of fisheries inspectors on those waters, unfortunately. But I believe that this consequence of the loss, which I hope will now come into effect, will help to prevent poaching. I do not think it will stop it at any point, even in the Pielisjoki of North Karelia, but it will prevent some and reduce it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u188	Mr President! I understood that, of course, man may not be fishing, but I wanted to describe the fact that now the fisheries inspector does not even have a chance in these situations where he has seen the situation any longer. If the fish has been hidden in time, the fishing supervisor may not have asked, for example, that cooler in the boat to open or there to open by car. I think it's a big problem. In my opinion, the legislation on fisheries control in 2012 has gone into the forest in that sense, and I strongly believe that it should be corrected to the effect that, in this type of situation, the fisheries supervisor is not just a person assisting the authority, but can be given the right to inspect, for example, the cooler or the plastic bag. This is the kind of measure we have taken in other legislation, and I personally believe it is essential that this be corrected next season.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u190	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 38/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u191	Mr President! The central issue of the proposal by the Board of Directors at first reading is the withholding tax on dividends received from the registered share of a listed limited liability company. According to the proposal, the final recipient information of the shareholder should always be provided to the Tax Administration, which could ensure that the provisions of the tax agreement on dividends have been correctly applied and that the dividend recipient is entitled to a lower tax rate in accordance with the tax agreement. The withholding tax on dividends would be 35% if the final recipient information were not provided. Thus, there is a significant incentive to provide final recipients’ information when the withholding tax under the tax agreement can be as low as zero. The Committee on Finance proposes the approval of the Government's proposal without amendment. However, it would not enter into force until 1 January 2021, as has already been stated in the Government's proposal. Representatives of the business community, including the financial sector, have strongly criticised the government's proposal in an expert hearing. The committee therefore proposes the following statement by Parliament: ‘The Commission requires that the Government examines the effects of non-lifechanges and That's before 1 January 2021. The committee's report contains one objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u192	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 45/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u193	Mr President! Although the Government's proposal now under discussion is a technical change linking the Transport and Patient Damage Board, it is important that in this context the obligation to notify ties is included in the law. The communication of ties is central to the identification of potential obstacles and the general public's confidence in the solutions of the boards. The obligation to notify ties is currently in place, but since it is not enshrined in the law, many people have not done so. When the law provides for the notification of ties, there are consequences of the crime. Monitoring is and will continue to play an important role in making binding declarations at all. The appeal boards are a small piece of the large part of the insurance doctor’s system in Finland. I myself have wondered and questioned the role and necessity of the appeal boards, because their statements do not at present in any way tie in with the solutions of insurance companies. A few weeks ago, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health required that the government prepare a proposal to correct the shortcomings of the insurance doctor system and submit a proposal for legislative changes during the spring session of 2020. At the same time, it is essential that the role of the appeal boards, the possible composition and the legal binding nature of its decisions be taken under serious review. The Committee on Transport and Communications will pay particular attention to the timing of the proceedings. Due to the technical change, there should be no delays in processing times. On the contrary, legislative changes and the development of activities should be aimed at improving smoothness and services rather than merely economic considerations, which are also important. The committee therefore proposes in its statement that Parliament will require monitoring of the consequences of the amendment of the law and that, if necessary, the government will take measures to correct matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u194	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u195	Mr President! It is good in itself that this long-awaited bill is now moving forward. Unfortunately, this is rather late and only deals very narrowly with what has been said in Finland, which, as a group, is very small, and certainly not, for example, with international terrorism, the threat which was discussed quite comprehensively in Question Time today. The problem here is that citizenship in itself can only be lost if you have a nationality of a country along with Finnish citizenship. In principle, the fact that someone is only a Finnish citizen fully protects him from the effects of this law. Here again, for a change, we are faced with the Constitution and the international treaties, and the question arises whether the Constitution and the international treaties will be at the level of the threats of this time if such problems are constantly encountered, and whether they could be changed, because the Constitution has also been amended to enable intelligence laws to be enforced. If such changes of law, which are called for by obvious common sense, such as the fact that a terrorist could be deprived of his citizenship, collide with the Constitution and international treaties, then I think that the first thing that should be done is to look at those treaties and laws and not question that common sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u196	Mr President! I welcome the fact that this legislation is in the Parliament, and this is where citizenship could be lost to a person who is a double citizen, i.e. he has Finnish citizenship and another nationality. In this case, a person could lose that Finnish citizenship if he were guilty of treason, treason or a terrorist offence against Finland, for which, if I remember correctly, the sentence would be at least five years. I welcome this, but unfortunately this is already proving inadequate at this stage. We have had people in public all these days who have traveled to Syria and Iraq for terrorist purposes to Daesh, which is also called ISIS, and in recent days there have been reports of a woman who has been called Sanna in the media and who, in my opinion, has been given the wrong impression. If an adult person has traveled to the territory of such a terrorist organization, it is very wrong to speak of him as an Isis wife or an Isis bride. Yes, he is a terrorist then as well as the men who are there, and in fact the role of these women in the media has unfortunately been underestimated in Finland. I think it is necessary to update our legislation so that we can also prevent these people from returning to Finland, at least in situations where they have dual citizenship, in which case they lose Finnish citizenship, and, on the other hand, we are also looking for ways to ensure that if these types of persons, who are not Isis wives but terrorists themselves, return to Finland, then they can be apprehended and sentenced here. I think it is important, first and foremost, for these people to be convicted where they have committed crimes, in this case in Syria and Iraq, but if any of them can return to Finland, then they must, of course, be apprehended here for security reasons and held accountable for their actions in Finnish law. After all, about 80 adults and about 30 children have left these regions, and I would like to conclude by saying that there is, of course, a need to deal with these situations differently in the case of children, because they have not been able to make this travel decision themselves, but adult men, adult women have gone into the ranks of a terrorist organisation, and so let them be treated. They should not be helped back to Finland or their position
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u197	Mr President! At that first reading we discussed the way in which this legislation is now in this situation, when these foreign fighters are returning, could help, but in fact it cannot help, because we do not have retrospective legislation. But it is terribly important that this legislation now comes into force and gives one such opportunity to tackle these very serious crimes of treason or such terrorist crimes. And losing citizenship in the event that a person also has citizenship in another country is definitely a good thing. But, as colleagues have said in their speeches, in the case of these foreign fighters, we find that even stricter legislation is needed and that it is possible to influence when a person who has Finnish citizenship has not been prevented from returning to Finland. And few who are coming back from there will hardly inform the border guard that I am, by the way, coming as a Finnish citizen directly from that terrorist zone from fighting, few themselves will report it. Of course, these intelligence laws, which have been discussed earlier today, are hopefully to be used in terms of the purpose people in the world have had in traffic. But much has been said here about these very people, about wives and children, and I share Mr Heinonen's view that adult people generally know what places they're going. Of course, in some cultures there may be a situation where it does not necessarily have so much decision-making power over one side of its own life, but it can be a rather forced situation, especially in the case of children. In their case, it is important that child protection measures come into force if these children return to Finland from there, and certainly they need safety above all, possibly custody. At first reading, too, I mentioned the need to take into account the fact that we have social security benefits paid to these people, and then it can also be thought that in a certain way our social security benefits could have been used to promote such organisations and their work as Isis. These people who are there — wives or brides who are here wanted to be a separate group — contribute to this terrorist activity. And in that sense, we must look very carefully at what they have done there and what measures they have taken. Today it has become known that such an ad hoc tribunal would be set up. That is very good, because now there are these returnees all over Europe, and it makes sense for them to have such a special court where they could then go through these crimes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u198	Mr President! To that representative, Mr Essayah, for coming to and joining the border: I believe, or at least I hope, that the authorities in our country will have reasonable clarity as to who has left for foreign fighters, and they have been recorded without their own registration. Of course, intelligence legislation and its future rights will improve this situation and information on it. A brief comment on the committee’s arguments: here is a phrase: ‘where the lawfulness of a criminal offence would have taken more than five years’. I wonder if that would be some kind of misconception, because I don't think the crimes will be legal. I do not know whether this matter has been taken into account before. One more observation is that, when this bill was included — Ville Tavio and others: the bill for the amendment of the citizenship law — I am surprised that now that this citizenship law was open, why could not this bill for ten years of residence be included in this law? It has to do with this matter in the sense that now, if anyone has only Finnish citizenship, then, as has been said, he is completely protected from this loss of citizenship, and if that Finnish citizenship were to be acquired at all later on, those persons who would have dual citizenship or, worst of all, purely Finnish citizenship would be less and less likely. In general, I think that Finnish citizenship is not a right for foreigners, it is a privilege, and it is not an automation, it is a prize.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u199	The 11th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u200	Mr President! This is a particularly topical issue these days, when the recent unregistered meeting got out of hand in this very House of Parliament. Of course, in this case, the extension of the obligation to register would have been of no use in itself, since no notification had been made at all. Police action in this situation was by no means satisfactory, i.e. the demonstration was not dismantled in sufficient time and intensity in relation to the threat it posed. I expect that in future the police will correct their actions in this regard, in fact I insist. But for this bill: It's a good thing this is moving forward. This is a small but important matter of principle, because these expressions may become worse in the future — such signs are in the air. There were apparently also some outside parties involved in this demonstration. I am surprised, however, that this bill, which was attached to it, in which Mr Packalén and others put forward in practice that it would not be possible to camp on the basis of a demonstration, could not be included in this amendment. After all, this was the background to these cases when this bill was taken, in which the Finnish authorities were in practice mocked by the fact that there were a wide range of parties ‘showed’ at the parade sites in Helsinki, even though the question was merely a matter of continuous activity,not of a spontaneity or atemporary demonstration. There should be a stop to this kind of activity, and I wonder why there was no legal obstacle to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u201	Mr President! Yes, it is very good that this legislation has improved the ability of the police to respond to demonstrations by extending this registration period. I do not believe that it is you who is making it difficult for citizens to demonstrate their minds and the freedom of free assembly, which is a fundamental right. Indeed, just as Mr Mäkelä said, it was a rather confusing situation for me to find out through the news that people are climbing the pillars of Parliament. It is understood that this cannot in any way be a very spontaneous activity but must have been designed very carefully and that it is also professional operators. When different demonstrations also turn into such professional ones and, as we have seen across Europe, they are massed with such forces, which will, therefore, overwhelm public order and disrupt public order, you may well think that there is also the possibility of a certain kind of hybrid effect, even from foreign powers. In that sense, it is true that there is an attack of this kind on our seat of democracy that I cannot show any kind of understanding. The issue itself, the fight against climate change, is certainly important, but the fact that it is done in this way eats it up, and I think that this is the kind of signal that it would also be good for these protesters to send out that, if it is done in this way, you will actually eat up the importance of your own cause. [TimoHeinonenarvous] Of course, on the media side there is the wish that when you do this, it is wrong for the media to give you the right special treatment: to interview every protester, to publish all night those interviews, and then to take the grandfather who tells you how his grandchildren are the reason to be here. I'm sure it's the granddad's fault, but it's hard for me to believe that the grandkids who hung on those pillars would be the grandkids. Yes, in some way the media also did a disservice by picking up such as innocent ones who came into the mood, and then, on the other hand, these professional factors were there to create a dangerous situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u202	Mr President! That is the amount of media that Mr Essayah raised about this media treatment and so on, and of course the media is doing what the media wants, and the media's agents here we know. But more than that, I'm concerned about the actions of the authorities. So it cannot be that the Finnish police have such an attitude that, when the protesters are on the right track, they are treated more gently than the demonstrators who are on the wrong side? Would any type of protestors who climb the poles at the Parliament House have been treated in this way? Would the police have come to the conclusion of 40 troublemakers on the steps of the Parliament House that we do not consider it necessary or bother to remove them from it if they had been a bit of a different ideology than those who were there? These are unfortunate questions that have to be asked, but unfortunately this is the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u203	I couldn't agree more. In my own mind, it occurred to me that what if there had been some sort of extremist group, such as a religious extremist group or someone like that, would the conduct of the police in this situation have been similar? In that sense, it seems to me that in moving some ideologies and some ideas forward, as it were, we are overlooking things and then there is clearly more strict treatment for others. Yes, it is very important that in all such illegal expressions the course of action is certainly exactly the same. Of course, I understand that this situation must have come quite quickly and was rather confused about what should be done about this. In that sense, the time and ability to react seemed to come with a reasonable delay. This is certainly something that Parliament must learn from.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u204	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u205	Mr President! This proposal in the mouth of the people, so to speak, is necessary, but even at this stage I think it is inadequate in a certain way. Despite the fact that the ceiling is now being lowered, we have seen time and again how quick-lease companies have always found a way around these points. Now that these various electoral machines have been filled in and there have been questions as to whether, for example, advertising by these companies should be banned altogether, I am starting to lean on that direction, because there is Google if you put in one of these keywords such as ‘widow’ or ‘quick loan’ or ‘credit’ or ‘or equivalent’, there will be a huge number of these companies offering people who are generally in a difficult situation. Many times there is a situation where they have credit data in it and that there is positive credit data, and then we have a little loosely written in the legislation to find out that a person has the capacity to pay, but it is not so binding that those people who are already in such a cycle of debt cannot continue to offer more debt. Now there is a new quick-wielding model in the United Kingdom, where it is possible that the next circle of such a person will also be subjected to a similar spiral of debt, i.e. that the person who has already lost his credit information will be offered a quick-wielding credit card if there is a person close to him who, for example, has an apartment to offer as collateral. It seems that this is indeed an insolent exploitation of people in need, and in that sense it should be possible to tackle this type of activity more firmly. Above all, if you consider the means that the Guarantee Fund or social credit could provide in these situations, then of course these people need, above all, debt counselling and it is extremely important that we go through their overall situation. For example, social credit should be extended to more municipalities than it is at present, because social credit can help people who, for example, have regular incomes, for example, a job where they can then gradually reduce the amount of debt, but they can get out of a cycle where the next quick lever is paid and the cost of these credits is increasing. These fast-track companies have also learned how to circumvent these rules of interest, which means that there are various charges that are then aimed at rather than interest...
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u206	Mr President! I welcome the continued restrictions on the marketing and operation of speed levers. The committee did a good job in deciding to reduce the ceiling from 30% to 20%, and that ceiling will also limit this cycle. But I very much agree with Mr Essayah that we should take even more decisive steps towards a total ban on the advertising of speed levers and also the total ban on speed levers. We need to find ways of not exploiting the plight of others in this way. Mr President! That is why I wanted to ask the floor to thank the committee for going through this legislation carefully, because there was one point that would have been quite unreasonable for many people. It concerned car funding, which would have been covered by this legislation. In other words, a measure would have been taken in a certain way on a whole which in practice does not cause over-indebtedness or a debt problem. I mean, with these car funding, the car's secured. At no time will the buyer of the car, or the applicant for car financing, receive money for his own account. The car is still owned by the financial company and so on. An excellent remedy for this good legislation in itself from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and I would particularly like to thank Mr Jaskar, who, together with Mr Lehde, made this correction in committee. In other words, car tranquilizers are viewed in the same way as mortgages, in a secured manner, when the car can be placed in Trafi's register of authorities, and boats, for example, can also be here in full. Guaranteed credits, car funding has now been corrected, so let's not confuse what works, let's put measures into what doesn't work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u207	Mr President! It is good that this legislation is now moving forward in this form, even with these restrictions. What Mr Heinonen said about car loans is a good point. In other words, there is a rather difficult line here, where we talk about quick-leases and over-indebtedness problems and where we talk about normal consumer credit, which is now more high-interest than a normal bank loan. However, car credit is generally higher than a bank loan, but on the other hand there is a tangible commodity in principle guaranteeing it in the final analysis. There is that tangible commodity, while there is no tangible commodity, for example, if you take the quick levers to play. I would therefore like to highlight the link between the speed levers and the gambling problem in this debate. Well, that's probably the worst over-indebtedness if we play the money we've been up on. In a way, they disappear into the air from the consumer’s point of view. There is nothing where they are or any guarantee of that credit or repayment of it. This connection should be cut off somehow. It's not easy, of course. If it were easy, that decision would have been made by now, I believe. I think we need to talk here about restrictions on advertising. In particular, advertising by foreign gaming companies could already be restricted much more effectively than in practice by means of different television channels. There, too, is little to do with the withdrawal of the whole television channel licence, if that is possible by legislation. It may be a radical measure, but perhaps the legislation could be changed in such a way that there would be periodic penalty payments for advertising gambling companies. And in the case of fast-paced games, there should under no circumstances be the possibility of taking and raising such quick levers that they can continue to play with such quick levers. It's a highly toxic combination.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u208	Mr President! Mr Mäkelä did raise an important point that many times people with gambling problems or with other addictions are these people who use speed levers, so that, of course, these problems are repeated in that situation in life. In addition, there are also these young people who may have that it is a one-night or weekend or similar situation, where they will then really leave this sort of quick-mouldering spiral on top and then there may be very fatal consequences, and may be that these one-week fools will then be paid for a longer period of time. In that sense, it would be very important, especially for children and young people, to provide financial and such investment and debt advice, and to teach in schools, to know what it means when you should be able to live within their means, and then, on the other hand, what it means to invest rationally and what it means to take out debt and interest and similar things. It would take this sort of thing, could you say, to teach young people old-time economic education? As far as these online games are concerned, of course, the most important thing would be that in Finland, citizens would understand that when we play our own Veikkaus monopoly games, as the slogan says, Finns always win. Indeed, if we are going to go abroad with this gambling, they will go to private companies’ profits, and some of these gambling companies will also be involved in the laundering of criminal money, and in a certain way they will also be involved in activities that are illegal. I hope that, at EU level, we can do more to block such sites on the grounds that, if there is a national monopoly, then it will also apply to this online gambling. Now we are trying to circumvent this online, and it is very difficult to tackle it, because these servers are then located in some countries where there is no monopoly, or in countries where there is no such control. That is why this problem is, you might say, complex. If we lack subsidies for communities of general interest through the bet and through the current STEA, that means that we need to raise taxes by about two per cent if we want to have something else in the public interest then. And yet when the Finnish gambling industry strives for this responsibility and restriction of problem players and then for people not to be able to play at any time of the day, these are important things to take into account, and of course even the Finnish monopoly can do even more for it, for example in slotting and similar machines.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u209	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-07-ps-172.u210	Mr President! I noticed that the President was already a little sighing that we were talking so much. [The President : No!] This is an important correction. It could be said that this is in a certain way ‘LexMikaelJungner’. Mr Jungner raised this problem of fund-raising and its absurdity during the last period, and now this fund-raising legislation is being reformed. Thus, the new law replaces these fixed-term collection permits, which have been in force until now, with permits that are in force for an indefinite or permanent period, and in fact allows for small-scale collections of citizens subject to notification. This is a good reform. Certain types of such pop-up-type collections can then be arranged more easily. The money collection permit is therefore granted for an indefinite period and the application process will be considerably reduced in this reform. As a general rule, the purpose of the activities of the organiser of the collection and the general interest of the collection purpose would therefore be required. The holder of the money collection permit should then report annually to the Police Board on the organisation of the collection, the proceeds and the use of the proceeds, and the annual plan for future collections. In addition to this, these smaller one-off small collections would be possible and would suffice merely to make a declaration. Therefore, the organiser of a small collection would not be required to be of general interest to the purpose of the operation. And a collection could be arranged for purposes other than general interest, but not to support business activities or increase the wealth of a legal person. The purpose of the collection should be stated in that notification and its implementation monitored. The proceeds of the small collection should not exceed EUR 10000 and the collection should not exceed twice a year.
