ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases. Let's open a conversation. Presentation, Minister Ohio, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u2	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Government's proposal now under discussion proposes to introduce a new Personal Data Act for the Migration Administration. The main objective of the Government proposal is to clarify the regulation of the processing of personal data, both from the point of view of the law-maker and the protection of the rights of the data subject. The processing of personal data in immigration management would in future be governed by only one law that meets the requirements of the modern Personal Data Act and which complements the European Union Data Protection Regulation and national general legislation, i.e. the Data Protection Act and the Criminal Data Protection Act. The new Personal Data Act would replace the 20-year-old Alien Register Act, which is proposed to be repealed at the same time. In addition, the regulation of registers would be repealed by a number of administrative laws, with all the rules on the processing of personal data being concentrated on the new Personal Data Act now being proposed. The dossier has been prepared mainly by the previous government. The Government's proposal on the new Personal Data Act was submitted to Parliament in autumn 2018 so that it could be discussed both in the Constitutional Committee and in part in the Administrative Committee. Unfortunately, however, the matter was closed as a result of the parliamentary elections. The present proposal is based on the proposal submitted at the time, but it has been updated to a certain extent, including in the light of the comments that have been made in committee and following the expiry of the previous proposal, on the basis of a new round of opinions which took place in the spring. The proposal now responds better to the concerns expressed in this area, for example with regard to co-registration, automatic decision-making and confidentiality regulation. The laws proposed in this proposal are intended to enter into force as soon as possible, as this is partly a late legislative act related to the EU regulation due to the expiry of the previous proposal. Well, why is this motion given in the first place? The proposal is not related to the Government Programme, but is based on two key elements: firstly, it is part of a broader reform of the personal data legislation of the state administration following the EU’s data protection reform and, therefore, the Ministry of the Interior. The revised Personal Data Laws of the Police and Border Guard entered into force on 1 June 2019. This is also due to national needs for change, i.e. the old-fashioned nature of the register regulations that apply to immigration management, which are partly 20 years old, and changes in the operating environment, for example through digitalisation. The preparation of the proposal has therefore required close and, in part, challenging coordination with both the EU's data protection regulation and the Constitution and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs' approach. This is a very fundamental right-sensitive set of regulations. The Constitutional Committee has recently reviewed its practice of regulating the protection of personal data and stressed, on the one hand, that the implementation of the protection of personal data should, in future, primarily be ensured under the Data Protection Regulation and the Data Protection Act which replaced the Personal Data Act. In practice, this means reducing specific legislation. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stressed that the higher the risk to the rights and freedoms of a natural person, the more detailed the regulation is. Therefore, given the number and nature of personal data processed in the Migration Administration, a separate law on immigration administration will continue to be necessary. A few words on the impact of the proposal: The proposal actually has two kinds of impact. Firstly, it has implications for regulatory technology and, secondly, for the rules on the processing of personal data. Instead, the proposal does not propose to change the conditions of entry or residence, but only the regulation relating to the processing of personal data. The new regulatory technique means that existing rules have been written in a new way that is better compatible with relevant EU regulation, such as the Data Protection Regulation and national general legislation, such as the Data Protection Act. This is very important because the regulation of the processing of personal data will, in principle, consist of these three acts, which must be interpreted together. Union data protection legislation and national general and specific laws constitute a multi-layered and therefore rather complex set of regulations. The relationship between the applicable EU and national instruments is partly overlapping and partly separated. A very significant part of regulatory complexity will be brought back into the restricted and differentiated scope of EU law and its data protection regulation. Therefore, the main objective of the proposal for a Personal Data Act by the Migration Administration is to clarify the scope of the regulation on the processing of personal data, both from the point of view of the law-maker and the protection of the rights of the data subject. The aim is to achieve clarity by proposing to focus the regulation on the processing of personal data on a single personal data law which is as general, clear and understandable as possible. The scope of the law would be end-use-related, i.e. the scope of the law would no longer be tied to any registers or information systems, but to certain purposes for processing personal data. These processing purposes consist of legislation that creates powers for the authorities in the immigration administration, such as foreign law, citizenship law, reception law and so on. The starting point is that personal data could only be processed for the purpose for which they were collected and only by the authority that collected the data. Any other processing would be possible only as provided for separately. This is a very important starting point in a situation where the scope of the law is extended and the processing of personal data by a large number of authorities. This is not just a personal data law of the Finnish Immigration Service. The Personal Data Act would apply not only to the activities of the Finnish Immigration Service but also to the activities of reception centres and detention units, but also when the police, Border Guard, Foreign Service and Ely and TE Centres process personal data in the role of the immigration authority. The multi-authority model is one of the specific features of immigration administration, which has called for special coordination with both the EU data protection regulation and the Constitution. The authorities applying the law would act as co-register administrators in accordance with the Data Protection Regulation. In addition, the risk-based regulatory approach required by the Data Protection Regulation and the Constitutional Committee would be implemented to target regulation on a risk-based basis to more specific regulatory situations, such as personal data belonging to specific categories of personal data, and, on the other hand, to dismantle regulation in situations where detailed regulation is no longer necessary. Risk-based regulatory techniques also contribute to the objective of clarification. The new processing provisions, in turn, refer to certain substantive changes to the rules on the processing of personal data. These changes would enable, for example, new, modern operating methods such as automated decision-making in the activities of the Finnish Immigration Service. The automatic decision-making procedure would promote the right of the data subject to have his or her case dealt with without undue delay. Routine solutions could be streamlined and staff input could be directed to tasks that require human involvement. Automatic decisions could only be taken where the Administrative Act allows the matter to be settled without consulting the parties concerned. Such a situation may be, for example, where the party’s claim is accepted. For example, in the case of worker residence permits, automatic decision-making would speed up the granting of permits and is therefore a significant and concrete reform from the point of view of reducing processing times. On the other hand, automation is not appropriate for the processing of an asylum application or for other matters requiring consultation with the applicant. Automatic decision-making would also ensure good governance, legal certainty and accountability. In addition, the proposal proposes to introduce, for example, a report on the management of liabilities of the Grey Financial Clearing House. A report on the management of obligations, which contains information on the performance of employers' statutory obligations, would contribute to the handling, decision-making and supervisory functions of a foreigner in matters of entry, residence, employment and citizenship. The proposal proposes that double regulation of the movement of information be abandoned by providing only for the right of information to the authority. The proposal would also allow the processing of so-called attention data. In addition, specific confidentiality criteria for immigration would be brought together in the Publicity Act and the rules on confidentiality in the Alien Register Act would be repealed. The confidentiality provisions would also be specified in terms of content to cover regulatory gaps. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, the central objective of the proposal for a Personal Data Act for the Migration Administration is to clarify the whole package of rules on the processing of personal data, both from the point of view of the law-maker and the protection of the rights of the data subject, so that it also fulfils the conditions set out in the Union's data protection reform. The proposal is necessary in order to ensure that the requirement under Article 10 of the Constitution to provide for the protection of personal data by law is properly fulfilled in the immigration administration in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u3	Let's go to the conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u4	Mr President! And thank you to the Minister for a comprehensive presentation. The regulation on the processing of personal data by the Finnish Immigration Service is now to be incorporated into a new law, and in summary it can be concluded that this is a necessary package in line with the existing data protection guidelines. The regulation on the processing of personal data will be clarified from the point of view of both the legal person and the protection of the rights of the data subject, and this is a good thing. The aim, as the Minister has pointed out earlier, is to ensure that the constitutional requirement to provide for the protection of personal data by law is properly fulfilled in immigration management. As has been said, this old Alien Register Act of 98 no longer meets the requirements of digitalisation. The scope of the new law would thus not be linked to registers or information systems but, in line with current policies, to the purposes for which personal data are processed. Mr President! In addition to this, as pointed out in the Minister's presentation, the law allows the Finnish Immigration Service to take automatic decisions, but under strict conditions and only in certain cases. Automatic decisions could only be taken if, as the Minister said, the administrative law allows the matter to be resolved without consulting the person concerned. For example, in the case of employee residence permits, automatic decision-making would speed up the granting of permits. And I think it is important to emphasise that this automation cannot be applied to the processing of asylum applications and other matters requiring consultation with the applicant. The automation of decision-making would reduce not only the time taken to process automated decisions but also the time taken to process other decisions when the authorities can focus on them. In this context, I think it is important to note and stress that, at the same time as this automation makes much possible for the Finnish Immigration Service, it is also important to increase the resources of the Finnish Immigration Service, as we have already heard in the Committee on Administrative Affairs at the beginning of this period. There is a need to have more person-years so that these new instruments can also be introduced. Mr President! The current regulation on the processing of personal data is burdensome, complex and fragmented. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also drawn attention to this. That is why the reform is welcome. The proposal also improves the possibilities for cooperation between authorities by facilitating the sharing of personal data.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u5	Mr President! The integration of personal data regulation in a single law on the immigration administration will make it possible to harmonise regulation and also facilitate the exchange of information between authorities. This proposal is also welcome, indeed, because, when it is possible to automate decision-making, it will also, where appropriate, reduce processing times and, of course, the processing times for other decisions, because the authorities can then invest and concentrate on them. But I would like to point out that during the last parliamentary term, the Parliamentary Audit Committee produced a report on integration and made such a statement: ‘The Parliament requires that government officials should be able to adapt their residence permits to the processing time. The period of processing of applications shall not exceed two months.’ I would now like to ask the Minister: how much do you estimate that this legislation will be able to reduce these processing times, and what timetable will be set for this average time of two months? When the Audit Committee dealt with this, it turned out that, at the end of last year, for example, in the region of the Uusimaa Employment and Economic Development Office, this period of processing was on average up to eight months, which is a very long time. I believe that other measures are now needed in order to achieve that average period of two months of processing, precisely for these worker residence permits.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u6	Madam President! I myself have been a member of the Administrative Committee for the past eight years and I have seen the efforts of two different governments to speed up and make the various permit procedures of the Finnish Immigration Service more flexible, and it is now nice to be a representative of the Government Party to note that the Government of Prime Minister Rinte has taken up this challenge and has already made concrete proposals at this very early stage. However, I would like to ask the Minister: Is it still the intention to seek additional effectiveness in terms of work-related immigration and other processing of permits, for example, Mr Heinäluoma's great concern about the adequacy of staff for the management of these permit procedures? Is there any further good openings of this kind to be expected?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u7	Madam President! Inspired by Mr Räsänen's speech, I thought to ask about this same issue, and yesterday the government's budget debate said that the time for processing these work-related residence permits is now being reduced to a month, and it is, of course, very good that such an objective has been set. But are there resources now? Just like there's a representative. Mr Räsänen pointed out very well, and last season the Committee on Audit drew attention to the fact that those processing times are indeed enormously long, and if you think of entrepreneurs and traders, the processing times have certainly been a big shutdown in that business. Is there really an opportunity for such a rapid improvement in this regard? Otherwise, this legislation is important and worthy of you, and this automation will lead to a reduction in processing times. Of course, it is important that those resources should then remain focused where there are more challenging situations and where the processing of these applications and also background data and the like are needed. But how does this allocation of resources now take place within the Finnish Immigration Service?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u8	Madam President! This legislation is certainly in order to streamline certain aspects of personal data. I myself draw attention to the same problems as the previous speakers here, not only in these permits for work-related immigration, but also in dealing with humanitarian immigration, for example, there have been very serious problems, i.e. the maximum processing periods laid down in the laws have not been complied with, and the Ombudsman has made more comments to the Immigration Service. After all, the problem is not ultimately the fault of the Finnish Immigration Service, but, of course, our faults, which have not provided sufficient resources for the Agency to be able to deal with matters within the given deadlines. This delay in the application for a residence permit, for example in the case of humanitarian immigration, is causing a number of disadvantages. Of course, there will be more costs for taxpayers when these processes are delayed. Of course, it is intolerable for an asylum seeker to wait too long, even for another year, for a decision to be taken. We should quickly reach decisions so that the asylum seeker, who is entitled to international protection, can remain in the country and make his integration more effective and that those who are not entitled to international protection return as soon as possible to their countries of origin. Now I understand that the government budget debate has decided to give the Finnish Immigration Service more resources to shorten these excessive processing times for at least two years, and I would like to thank the government for that. I hope that, while the budget proposal and the resources of the Finnish Immigration Service are still being reviewed here in Parliament, every effort will be made to ensure that these processes are within these deadlines laid down by law and that those which do not have a legal deadline will also be dealt with quickly enough. In conclusion, however, I would like to say that the problem of work-related immigration is, after all, the question of access in itself. In other words, if an entrepreneur has a foreign employee who is suitable for the job and with whom all matters could be agreed, then the official should be asked whether I can hire this employee or whether there might be another employee in Finland or Europe. Officials then wonder whether the entrepreneur can hire the employee with whom he has already looked at the matter and the employee can come to the job. In other words, this question of access is a problem — which, of course, does not mean any free immigration, but has to be a contract of employment and a job and wages and so on in accordance with the TES. I hope that the government will also draw attention to this fundamental problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u9	Thank you, Mr President. After all, immigration is not just about the management of personal data, as Mr Zyskowicz described the situation very well. In this context, when the Minister is also present, I would also like to raise this point of view. Now that the resources of the Finnish Immigration Service are being increased in order to speed up these asylum applications and, above all, to get here to Finland, for example, in terms of increasing work-related immigration, or in terms of reforming regulations, I think that Migri should do a full refurbishment first as to how these decisions are being prepared. The public's confidence in the fairness of decision-making by the authorities has been affected precisely when dealing with these asylum seekers' decisions, because it is very random, who has received the asylum decision and who has not received it. It has now become very clear that, when the first negative decision on asylum has been taken, this argument will then become different in connection with the next application, and either on that other basis you receive or do not receive an asylum decision, and then for the third time you try to approach it from a third point of view in order to get the asylum decision here in Finland. It is particularly problematic from my point of view that the story of, for example, Christian asylum seekers is not believed in any way. Even if there are evidences from a congregation four years ago that they have changed their way of life and are no longer, for example, Islamic believers, people are still being turned back to Iran, for example, to receive a direct sentence of imprisonment or to lose their lives. I understand, of course, that it is extremely difficult for these proceedings to prove what the real basis is, but I call on the Minister and also the Foreign Ministry to ensure that these issues are consistent in the sense that the decision comes from a genuine angle of approach, that there is a basis for it, because at the moment those criteria may not be very well demonstrated. This is what we discussed in 2016 when this asylum crisis was at its hottest. We and some Members of Parliament went to Migri to discuss this issue, and that was when the policy was changed, the decisions on asylum processing were tightened up, yes, but still not the way in which the applications were dealt with. I believe that a 1 to 2 hour meeting with a decision on asylum or residence permits as a result is not a very coherent and credible way of dealing with people's applications.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u10	Let me remind you that we're gonna spend half an hour on this, so we're gonna stop at half past 14:30.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u11	Mr President! We were talking about resources here, and also about resources from the Finnish Immigration Service. We are all dealing with Parliament's Ombudsman's report in the committees now, and I am also taking the opportunity to give my regards to the minister and the Minister of Justice who sits there in the box on this matter of resources. Throughout the Ombudsman's full report, this lack of resources is on the table: there are no time-limits for different authorities, and the same applies to courts, police and prosecutors, among other things. This is a whole network issue, and I would like this to be dealt with in particular now. Of course, we in the committees — and as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs itself — will then make observations on these. Mr Zyskowicz extended this debate to this question of availability. These concepts confuse asylum seekers and then this work-related immigration, which is, of course, two different things. The asylum process — there will also be a lot of negative decisions, and it will consume a great deal of resources. If we were able to prevent those applications from actually coming so many and not so spontaneously here – it would be one such resource issue, but I understand that the government's line here is a little different from that of the Finns. As far as this question of availability is concerned, Mr Zyskowicz asked whether the Finnish employer should always ask questions about Finnish employees — yes. Congressman Purra was in that studio A the other night, if you were watching. The trade union representative confirmed this point: it misuses employment relations and tramples wages. It is hoped that the debate will identify these two issues. Of course, we're supposed to get the Finns to work. Or is the purpose of the meeting only then to replace the so-called Finnish workers with a cheaper reserve of employees? That is at least how I understood what Mr Zyskowicz said. But what I particularly wanted to emphasise is this resource issue. We've got all the authorities in trouble now. We are constantly giving more tasks, obligations, hearings here. In government presentations, especially in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice, it has often been read for years that there is no resource impact. Everyone understands that if you get an extra assignment, it will take time for you to do so, it will not just become easier in the same time. So this is for the ministers to take a very careful look at.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u12	And now, Minister Ohio, answer for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u13	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your very good comments and comments. It is easy to agree with many of them, and I believe that, crossing the government and opposition lines, we agree that these processing times must be reduced in any authority. It is a question of how people rely on public action, how they see that help and timely treatment are provided, and whether decisions are also made that guarantee legal protection for everyone — that is what this proposal is all about. Yesterday, in the context of the budget debate, the government has come out with such a package of employment, which, among other things, decides to launch an ambitious overall programme for work-related immigration, one of the concrete objectives of which is the rapid and smooth processing of work-related residence permits so that it takes place within a month. This, if it were to be properly launched, would facilitate new employment through labour migration. The government has a clear employment target, and 75% is where we are going. This is absolutely central to getting people here and here to work. This would be useful. At the same time, when the budget was published, we also came out with new resource increases and, as has been mentioned here, the Finnish Immigration Service has long suffered from resource shortages and shortages, and there the staff have also been in difficult situations, under strain. The same applies, among other things, to the police and many others. As an example of work-related immigration: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, including the Ministry of the Interior, are becoming more resourced to ensure that these permit practices are brought to fruition and to consider where these responsibilities will be in the future. The transfer of labour-related immigration as a whole towards the Ministry of Labour and Life is something that is currently being prepared here. When the authority always knows who has the responsibility, the best results will be obtained in this way. It is also, of course, a question of how we train our staff with these resources across the board, and also of how these information systems interact with each other and together. Which means there's a lot to be done to keep the process going. On the other hand, when we talk about processing times, it is not enough to just talk about quantity and time, but also to remember that quality. There has been a concrete problem here that the Finnish Immigration Service has had to deal with applications quickly, when they have not been properly processed and have returned from administrative rights back to the Finnish Immigration Service. We have had to work many times over in different authorities, and this is costing everyone nothing, including unnecessary waiting time. In other words, the focus is on ensuring quality in everything, guaranteeing legal protection and the front end, so that it does not happen, for example, that if you move away from work-related immigration, is it the case that there are a lot of people at the end of the reception centres who are still waiting for that decision? We have a lot of work to do here, but I am sure we will succeed, including with the support of the opposition, hopefully. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u14	All right, we've been spending half an hour on this. The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u15	We will now continue to discuss item 2 that has been suspended earlier in this sitting. The debate will continue, Mr Mäkelä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u16	Mr President! Indeed, we have not finished the debate, and most of the speakers have already left the Chamber, but I will continue with what was left unsaid. In other words, Mr Zyskowicz broadened the debate a little on the question of labour needs, of which we obviously have a slightly different view as the main opposition party in Peruvian Finland from that of the Coalition Party. I would have liked to ask you about this: Even now, when experts are already able to enter the country through a means test and, on the other hand, there is freedom of movement for cheaper workers in the EU, because wage levels are very different in the EU countries, who does not actually get into this country, which needs to get to work in this country? And in view of the fact that this current system of needs testing has already been punctured with holes in its present form, on a regional basis, where do we actually have this problem? I would have liked to ask the Minister one more time: What is the need for work-related immigration in order to achieve this 75% employment target? Are they not even somewhat conflicting objectives?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u17	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u18	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. First of all, thank you to the citizens' initiative makers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u21	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the citizens' initiative makers for this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u24	Mr President! The debate on the need to strengthen sexual self-determination is important and welcome. Thank you to the authors and signatories of the Consent2018 People's Initiative. Actions that violate sexual self-determination are simply wrong, serious and reprehensible. Inviolability of physical integrity is not yet sufficiently protected in Finland. Already during the previous parliamentary term, the work on the reform of sexual offences legislation was started under the mandate of Minister of Justice Häkkänen. Thank you for this job. The work of the working group on the reform of rape law set up by the Ministry of Justice is still ongoing. The aim is precisely to amend the criminal code so that consent is further strengthened in the rape characterisation. The aim of the working group is also to clarify and clarify the provisions — and, as was heard from the previous speech, it is very important — so that it is clear to everyone that without consent or against the will of the victim the act is wrong and must be punished. Prior to the Minister of Justice Häkkänen's ministerial term, criminal policy in Finland was based too much on the point of view of the perpetrator of sexual and violent crime, one might even say that it was a criminal act. The tightening up made by the previous Minister of Justice and this overall reform that was launched really came in need. I hope that our current Minister for Justice will continue this work. Mr President! In this work, the citizens' initiative, which has received a great deal of support, is an important support, and it is therefore at the heart of the citizens' initiative that the aim is to obtain a lack of consent as a central definition of rape. And here, I believe, the objective is a common one, which means that it is essential to assess the extent to which violations of sexual self-determination have been criminalised by the formulation of the criminal code. I agree that, in this context, sanctions must be tightened. The problem with the Finnish system is also that we do not have net penalties in place, which means that the sentenced person does not sit down in practice. It is not today that rapists and other sexual and violent offenders are gnawing. We will wait for reasoned proposals from the Minister of Justice in line with the Finnish sense of justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u25	Let us go to the list of speakers: two more speeches and then the Minister's reply. Then we'll take the debat. We can prepare for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u26	Madam President! The women of my generation have still grown into the strange anxiety that sexual violence and self-determination cause. When you could not name violence violence as violence because no one told you so, you just felt distressed that now you have crossed the border. When I was young, we were raised to bypass, silence, close sexual violence and harassment for years and years, or, worst of all, to think that violence against us was our own fault. Too short a skirt, too cheerful and too open an attitude: it could be interpreted as a sign that we are available to all. We grew up in the belief that the young woman’s body could also be touched when she herself is incapacitated, such as passed out at a home party. It was normal for us that our bodies were, as it were, common possessions that were allowed to be demeaned by words, eyes, and touch, as familiar as foreign boys and men. ‘Don’t be upset,you’re being taken into account.’ Now the “normal ” has broken down, and it has been a long time. It is important that legislation also takes account of the fact that, in addition to the physicality of acts, it is psychologically burdensome to be subjected to sexual acts and goes with them for years. Mr President! The citizens' initiative we are debating in this Chamber is very important and revolutionary. The Left Alliance also commends and supports the initiative and welcomes the fact that the principle of consent has also been mentioned in the Government Programme. Thus, the citizens' initiative and the government programme go hand in hand here and tighten each other up. It is obvious that sex without consent is rape, whether or not it involves violence. Period! Sexual self-determination belongs to everyone, and sexual self-determination also belongs to people who are often the most defenceless, including those living in nursing homes. It is clear that at present the law does not reflect modern human rights thinking and requires a comprehensive reform, which also covers the re-evaluation of the articles on exploitation. The amended legislation will change attitudes in concrete terms, but it will also provide protection for victims. The lively me too debate that began a few years ago, the earlier initiative of the women's network and the debate on sexual self-determination around them have all affected the general climate and attitudes, although there are still clear generational differences. For the younger generation, consent-basedness is more obvious, while older generations continue to grapple at times. This is also reflected in the resistance to change to the initiative and the emphasis on evidence problems. Although we are now starting to reform the legislation, it is important to remember that the experience of abuse has still not disappeared. Still only the tip of the iceberg comes out of abuse. Sexual abuse and violence also change shape as life circles and environments change. For example, according to a recent school health survey, one in three of the secondary school and secondary school jobs had experienced some form of sexual harassment during the year and one in ten had experienced sexual violence. In particular, sexual harassment and violence on the Internet have increased considerably. These harsh figures show the prevalence of harassment and violence, but also the courage to report them better than before. Thus, the increase in awareness of sexual violence will inevitably also lead to the fact that the phenomenon is no longer as acceptable as it used to be. Mr President! In addition to the need to diversify sexual education among young people, women's organisations have been communicating for years and years that there are still too few low-threshold services, help and advice for those who have experienced sexual violence. As long as there is not enough resources for low-threshold services, the experience of violence will not be taken seriously enough. In the case of young people, knowledge of the injustice of sexual violence does not necessarily mean that young people dare to speak to close and safe adults if violence and abuse have taken place. However, attitudes can only be changed if they are discussed. We need a reform of the law on rape, which clearly signals that only ‘yes’ is ‘yes’and that the right to self-determination and sex without consent is always violence.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u27	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The long road has been carried since February 2018, when this citizens' initiative campaign was launched, and it was launched with a strong force of over 200 volunteers, and eventually 55,000 Finns decided to support the change of the rape law to a lack of consent. There were much broader forces behind this: the debate on me too, the long-standing frustration that this society still does not take seriously the right of everyone to decide the limits of their bodies themselves. So it is a matter far beyond the rape law, but it was also recognised that there was an obvious deficiency in the rape law. It is a tremendous pleasure and an honour to say that that deficiency is being remedied now. The Government Programme states that the rape law will be corrected on the basis of a lack of consent and, in addition, the entire sexual offence law will be reformed to respect immunity and self-determination. This is what was already asked about in this toilet, and that is where the government programme will find it. Contrary to what has been said above, it is precisely from the point of view of the victims of rape that we are dealing with the biggest problem. After all, there are hundreds of thousands of these victims in Finland. According to a crime victim survey, 50,000 Finns are victims of sexual violence each year. The majority of them will never dare to tell anyone, the majority of them will know who did this to them, and as a result of all this, only about 1200 rapes are recorded by the police every year and only 200 of them will end up in prison. Then the fundamental problem is not the duration of the sentences, but the lack of them. According to Amnesty’s recent report, rape victims and those who go to the police feel that the crime process is really burdensome. These questions are currently directed at the victim rather than the suspect. Let's ask him what he was wearing. Let's ask the victim what he's done, if he's fought hard enough. As has been said above, this is all a completely wrong perspective. I should ask the unsub how he knew he had consent, how he knew that one of them was willing to have sexual intercourse. This is the fundamental change at the heart of this legislative initiative, and this is now the change that this government is really taking up. It should be pointed out that this change would certainly not have been brought to that government programme without long-term campaigning for this initiative. The main obstacle to this change was also the Conservatives sitting in this Chamber, who have closed their ears to the demands of the legal scholars and the victims of rape.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u35	Let me now respond to Mr Henriksson. Is three minutes enough? Five minutes?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u36	Mr President, värderade talman! Today we are discussing a very serious and important issue and I would like to thank the drafters and signatories of this citizens' initiative. Sexual self-determination belongs to everyone — that is what we agree on. It is one of the fundamental fundamental rights that we are committed to securing. You can't bargain for a cent of this, never, never, under any circumstances. And not always no. Sexual crimes are always very serious and disgusting crimes that cause both physical and mental suffering to the victim of the crime.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u37	Thank you, Mr President. In any case, I would like to thank the authors of the bill and, as chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I promise that this initiative will be properly dealt with in committee. Although I was a little disturbed when it was said that there was a resistance to change that was greener than that. When properly discussing the principle of legality and clear and precise legislation, then, as the Minister of Justice pointed out, careful work must be done here. After all, it is not a matter of resistance to change if you want to legally justify things. First of all, we must distinguish between the consent of minors and perhaps the age of protection, and then between consents and sex between adults. Now I would like to see people who are very keen on taking a stand in this direction and on the other, familiar with how laws are enacted, what is meant by the principle of legality, and how strictly these laws really should be regulated. In particular — and I have already spoken to many about this when it was known — I would like to think about this in particular when there were very many problems with minors, particularly in the public domain, when there were too few penalties, and that is precisely what it was considered that a 10-year-old had even consented to sex, or at least that he had not resisted sexual acts against him, and that it was not gross rape. This is what we should be thinking here about, should there be a section where there would be a protective age limit, such as 16, and if there is a significant age difference, the author of the adult, then it would always be rape. That is where we would be able to get through a certain age limit to this issue of minors. Then there is this matter between adults, which is a very specific subject which seemed to be the main one in this Green speech, and these minors had been completely forgotten.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u38	Mr President! As Vice-President, I do not normally take the floor, but this is a matter of my past history, which I have done for these matters. In the early 1990s, the Advisory Board on Equal Opportunities raised the issue of partner violence, violence against women, and among other things rape in marriage was subsequently adopted in this Parliament. Even then, there were doubts as to how this will now be verified, but it is existing legislation. 2017 I launched a discussion initiative to discuss sexual harassment against women, girls on the basis of the 'too' campaign, and I thank Parliament for having a very broad and valuable debate here, from the side to the side where everyone participated and agreed. And now all of this is leading to legislative action. In this case, this issue of consent is now being discussed and discussed, and I think that would be an important step forward. I hope that we can find a common view on these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u39	Mr President! This is an important issue. I would like to emphasise that the Minister for Justice: Mr Häkkänen ended this long line of criminal abuse in our criminal policy and set off, blackmailed, among other things, the punishments of sexual crimes and also initiated the overall reform of Chapter 20 of this Penal Code, which is now continuing and hopefully will also be implemented. The second point I would like to draw attention to is these penalty scales. In my opinion, the tightening of penalty scales, and hence the tightening of penalties for sexual and violent offences, is entirely in order and proper policy. I encourage the Minister of Justice, Mr Henriksson, in this work, and I believe that this time the blackmailing of penalties will receive the support of the whole Chamber, because now even those red-green circles who generally feel that blackmailing penalties will not help are of the opinion that it will help in these cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u40	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank you for this excellent citizens' initiative and for the important debate we are having here today. I think it is quite right, as the Minister said, that global reform is now being carried out, and as Members have already said here, this will help to tighten up the overall reform that is being carried out. And just as Mr Meri said, it is important that this is done with care and that there are also different aspects of what should be done in the enactment of the law. At the moment, this criminal law of ours is partly flawed and somewhat misinterpreted, and I think it is important that we also send a message from this Chamber that rape is always reprehensible and that every person's right to self-determination should be respected.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u41	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Suomimela for the work and activity he has done, that this matter was brought to the debate here and that will be decided on later, but at the same time I must say that I cannot help but wonder that this matter is now being translated into a political tool, as it were, against this area. I interpreted your speech about that toilet as a very strong attack, and I hope that when there are so many victims in Finland who have been sexually abused, you will not now use the opportunity that is now, just as a political tool against us. I have spoken with so many victims, with their loved ones: it really matters that there are penalties and they are tangible, it really matters. And in some cases it is even a matter of locking them up so that they cannot do it again. — Thank you, Mr President — I am sorry — Mr President!
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u42	That's a good fix.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u43	Mr President! Well, if we now see how many victims are currently affected by the duration of the sentences, it is about one in two hundred victims — one in two hundred. So there are the hundred and ninety-nine, for whom it does not really matter at the moment how long the sentence is, because they dare not tell anyone what has happened. That's the first thing, and then when they tell you, that judicial process, that process doesn't listen to them, doesn't give way to their voices, they feel it's too heavy, or for some other reason, they don't end up with justice. That is why it is wrong to think that now the only essential, central issue would be the convictions of only one of two hundred victims — one of two hundred. Yeah, I'd think it's a hundred and ninety-nine bigger than the one, just like with a quick math. I would like this to be kept in mind, now that there is such a consensus that there is a big problem here that needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u44	Mr President! I would like to thank the authors of this Consent2018 initiative and the fact that it comes to Parliament in a very timely situation. This is about determining whether rape has taken place, whether violence has taken place or whether the threat of violence has to be used.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u47	Mr President! It is regrettable that Mr Lindtman, like so many others on the green left side, is using this important debate in itself for a very cheap party policy, but there is nothing new, unfortunately. Personally, I have no scepticism about tightening up the penalties or legislation on violent crimes. I would simply like to draw attention to the fact that I believe that this definition of rape does not address the most pressing problem of minor punishments for violent crime and sexual offences separately. The punishment is not only revenge for the crime committed, but it is the price society imposes on the injured right, in this case the physical integrity of people, and it is currently too cheap in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u48	Mr President! I understand there may be a debate on this, but I would like to say that you, Halla-aho, said about that toilet that you are skeptical, [Interjection]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u49	Halla-aho, when the name is mentioned, but then others will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I won't take up much of your time. In my speech on the toilet, I said that I am sceptical about this citizens' initiative. You argued that I am skeptical about tightening up the legislation on rape. You yourself have just admitted in your own debate that this citizens' initiative does not tighten up the legislation on rape, as it does not. The problem is that we do not currently have enough force to implement the legislation in force, and it does not help to extend this legislation in a way to include acts which are not currently included in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u51	Mr President! I attach great importance to the citizens' initiative, which is being discussed here, and I hope that the government will immediately implement the overall reform of the regulation on sexual offences, which was already being prepared by the then Minister of Justice, Mr Häkkänen, during the last period. This overall reform has three very important objectives: firstly, to strengthen the role of consent in the identification of rape; secondly, to prepare for changes that always punish sexual intercourse with a young child as a rape offence; thirdly, to increase the minimum penalties for sexual offences, in particular against children. It is precisely this increase in minimum penalties for sexual and violent offences that I consider to be an effective and important means of exerting influence on the level of punishment, since the majority of crimes are convicted by using the mildest part of the penalty scale. I would like to ask the Minister once you have flashed that this reform package will not come to Parliament until the end of the parliamentary term. However, when the work is well advanced, would it be possible to rush it and get it here without delay, quickly?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u52	Irade the Talman! I would like to thank the authors of this initiative. It is a great thing that this government is now going to reform sexual law in accordance with the Government Programme so that it is based on a lack of consent in relation to rape. It is also good, of course, that the previous government had a few days to do this. From the point of view of the law, there are apparently vague situations, sexual offences against children. This will also make the situation easier if the definition of rape is then clearer. Of course, this government is doing more than that. When a rape occurs, it must be dealt with. We are increasing resources not only to the police, but also to the courts. And just as the representative said there, a large part of these go unnoticed, goes undeclared, and this is also an improvement on that issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u53	Let us now give the floor to the Minister, the other tasks await. Is that enough for five minutes?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u54	Mr President, värderade talman! Thank you for a good conversation. It is important that these serious issues are discussed in this Chamber and done in a respectful manner and in such a way as to bring things forward. Questions have now been raised, particularly as to whether there is a need to tighten penalties. I'd start with the need to do everything. We need to renew chapter 20 of the Penal Code. We must also make all the victims understand and dare to announce what they have been through. We need to increase the risk of getting caught. The more these crimes are reported, the greater the likelihood that it will prevent these acts from being committed. There is a need for preventive work, but there is also a need, especially as regards sexual offences against children, for sanctions to be tightened. This is also in our government programme, and this will be evaluated now that a comprehensive reform is being carried out. At the same time, penalty scales are assessed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u61	Let's go to the debatt while we're willing to do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u62	Mr President! Here I would like to thank the Minister for Justice, Mr Henriksson, for his very careful intention now to address this overall reform of sexual crime law and to take account of the numerous issues raised here by colleagues, namely not just a definition, but also a penalty scale. Of course, it would also be helpful to clarify the way in which, at present, courts across Finland, for example, geographically, this penalty scale is being used today to determine whether there are any differences. I would also like to remind you of one more point. Today, that definition of rape also takes into account, for example, the mentally retarded, the elderly, the mental health patients, and now, if we are talking about this lack of consent, it must be noted that there are those in these people who work for the protection of trust, for example, in relation to their nurses, so that their position must not be weakened under any circumstances in this situation. And I am pleased that, as you said, you really want to take this very carefully and carefully forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u63	Mr President! In international agreements, Finland has committed itself, among other things, to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Prevention of Violence and Domestic Violence against Women. This Istanbul Convention is a central regional human rights treaty binding on Finland, which regulates the identity of rape. In Istanbul, rape is described as sexual intercourse without the consent of the victim. This is how many people are interpreted at the moment, as the Minister said just now: Sweden, Belgium, Germany, Great Britain, Ireland, Iceland, Luxembourg. What legal problems do we have here, which other countries have worked out, it would certainly be a good thing for the working group to clarify now if the Minister does not happen to have an answer to this now. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u64	Thank you, President-in-Office — excuse me, President! First of all, I would like to thank the Ministry of Justice for taking this overall reform under way, but with some concern I am listening to the fact that the tightening up of penalties may be more of a crime against children. That is good in itself, but I also think that adults deserve justice at this point, the victims and the perpetrator enough punishment. It is a little sad to listen to this debate when it seems to turn a little bit in such a way that the Finns of Peru are not in favour of tightening up the sentence, because the Finns of Peru have been talking about this matter in this Chamber for years. In my opinion, this is so important that we should be able to have a calm, proper debate on this and not go down the road in our speeches when we have not said that this is not worth it, but we have said that this needs to be properly resolved so that we do not do more harm to this legislation than good to the victim.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u65	Mr President! Thank you also, on my own behalf, to the citizens' initiative makers and also to the Minister. It is really great that we have a government that is committed to promoting the content of this initiative and also to correcting the legislation on sexual offences more broadly. The right to decide on its own body and integrity is a fundamental human right which, of course, the law must protect. It should be taken for granted. The speeches that the misappropriation raised by this initiative is not the most urgent or that something else is more important are very sensitive to the understatement of the experiences of people who have not been investigated or convicted or who have not dared to tell, or who themselves have actually been the victim of guilt, and I therefore hope that we will be able to discuss this matter, which is now under discussion, which is indeed important. Sexual rights and women’s rights are not something that can only be discussed when everything else is ready.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u66	Mr President! Such crimes against the integrity and life of people are important to be recorded in the criminal laws of each country in such a way as to ensure that this threshold of impunity is as uniform as possible, and that is precisely why the Istanbul Convention was being prepared. It was already launched during my Ministry of Justice, which was 15 years ago, and that agreement was approved by Parliament about five years ago. It covers not only rape — and the basis for consent — but also, for example, ensuring the criminality of such crimes as forced marriage, genital mutilation or persecution. In view of this, it is strange in this history that in spring 2015 the Group of Finns for Fundamental Rights was the only parliamentary group that did not support this Istanbul agreement. I don't know what was in the background, but maybe it's a good idea to tell you about this. However, these issues, which you have now brought, for example, with regard to mutilation, are part of this agreement and should be promoted.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u67	Mr. Speaker! As a former criminal lawyer, I myself can share the important objective of making the victims of sexual crimes come forward more courageously. However, as legislator, it cannot be done by injuring a person who is innocent in a Western legal culture until proven otherwise. Under point 2 of the current penal code, rape is also condemned when the victim is unable to express his will because of a state of fear or helpless state, i.e. when he lacks consent. From the point of view of the courts, evidence issues are in any case, whatever the case, for there is not always clear evidence or signs of violence afterwards, and the circumstances will then be assessed. This citizens' initiative and the arguments put forward here give rise to the assumption that a major change in the issue of evidence is required. Legally, it seems very challenging.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u68	Mr President! Firstly, I am pleased that many speeches in this Chamber have made it very clear that we want the right to sexual self-determination, the right to immunity and the right to decide on one's own body to be fundamental and that we, as legislators, are contributing to this. I think the Minister very well opened up what this government is now going to do about this, and thank him for that. We in the Left Alliance also support the overall reform of this chapter on sexual offences. There are many other points besides this definition of rape that need to be updated. Then I would like to come back to what Mr Honkasalo and Mrs Suomela have pointed out very well that this is also where a broader cultural change is taking place, for which more political decision-makers than the government are needed. We need to change this sexist and victim-criminating culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u69	Mr President! Rape is such a serious crime that it must be condemned absolutely from the most severe point of view of the penalty scale, and especially if the offence is directed at a minor or a child, such an act does, in my opinion, fill all the features of the most outrageous possible crime. Its consequences for a person’s life, whether a younger person or an older person is the subject of this crime, are quite shocking. That is why I am very pleased that such an initiative has been taken. I remember the discussions in this Chamber during the time of Justice Minister Häkkänen, what was said about this at the time, and now that this legislation has started, we have to make sure that these penalties really get tougher. I trust that Mr Henriksson, with his own expertise and expertise in the Ministry of Justice, will achieve the most important obligations, precision and precision in the drafting of the law, and this serious crime will be punishable by penalties that have a real preventive effect.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u70	Mr President! Thank you in particular to those behind this initiative. This is a very important issue and, as has been noted in this Chamber, it is also a matter of enormous emotion. I myself would think that if rape and sexual crimes did not evoke feelings in this Chamber, then what could stir up? The key message of this initiative is precisely to improve the protection of the individual's sexual autonomy. That is where we heard Minister Henriksson about what the government is going to do to reform the legislation on sexual offences as a whole, and this reform will be very important. We will certainly also find examples of this in other countries. It must also look at the services provided to victims of sexual offences and, in its entirety, at penalties. I think that sexual self-determination is a fundamental human right for every human being and that rape is always an act that the victim has not consented to.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u71	Mr President! In particular, I would like to thank the representative who launched the initiative, Finland, and all the brave women who have dared through this campaign to come forward and talk about their most painful experiences, of all their deepest wounds. I personally think that it is precisely these women, these victims, that we must listen to in this Chamber, because what these women are telling us is that too often the victim in this country is the one who is subjected in a humiliating way to witness his own fear or experience of violence in these rape situations, and that is the reason why there is no record of rape. This is the reason these women are afraid to talk. That is why we should not say here that these voices, these experiences, this initiative is not relevant, but something else is more relevant. That is why the Green Parliamentary Group supports this citizens' initiative, just as we support the tightening up and reform of the entire rape law so that victims are always protected, children and adults alike. It is not a question of being easy, it is a question of being able to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u72	Mr President! When I came here to the sitting, I thought that this subject would certainly unite the whole Chamber and everyone would agree that things should be done. On this side, the criticism of the sector affected by the citizens' initiative and of what else to do about it is not, I understand, an understatement of the role of victims and women. I could also point out to Mrs Suomela that not all the victims may be on your side, but there may also be victims here, and we also have information about people who think exactly what we are trying to say here. A fanatical and fully politicised debate on such a subject is, as I know, inclined to take this debate on the wrong track.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u73	Thank you! Now that we have discussed how to tighten up the rape law, it is worth noting that this initiative is an important tightening up of the current rape law. When analysing convictions, as Amnesty has done in a survey published in the spring, it is noted that at the moment, in cases where the victim tells us that he has either verbally opposed the act, that is, said no, or did what most of the victims, 70 percent, do, frozen out of fear, most have been abandoned. Five out of six cases where the victim is frozen from fear have been abandoned. It has been decided to close the investigation. Justice has not been achieved because there is a serious shortage and a serious deficiency in our current criteria. This is now being addressed, this is being tightened up, and it is therefore entirely wrong to claim that this bill is not aimed at clarifying and tightening up the current rape law.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u74	Mr President! Now that I have listened to this speech from this centre, I would firstly like to say that the Centre is in favour of the objectives of this citizens' initiative, and perhaps to some extent I also want to talk to all of you colleagues that I have understood that we are all here against rape and think that this is a crime. All of us here think that this criminal law should be reformed as a whole, that the sentences should be tougher and that they should be tightened from the bottom of the sentences. To some extent, I have wondered a little about the deliberate misunderstanding that has prevailed in this Chamber during this debate. This is an extremely important subject for all of us, we all want to improve people's legal security, their own right to their own body, and I hope that in this important matter, just as the Minister said, we will do as good as possible and together we will be able to take this important issue forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u75	Mr President! I think it is important that, first of all, careful legislative work is carried out here. Certainly no one in this Chamber has said that this should be taken forward in a sloppy way, but it is important that the principles of the law — accuracy, legal certainty, legal certainty — are taken care of in all situations, and the government is committed to this. Mr President! I also hope that the debate will go in the direction that this is not either — or that this legislation, based on consent, is being taken forward or that sanctions are being tightened up. This is both—and. I would also like to stress, Mr President, that when many acts are unpunished today as rape, it will certainly be possible if legislative reform is carried out in this direction, then it will make these penalties stricter. So, yes, in this sense, it is a tightening up, in this sense, Finland is right. That is why I do not take it personally and the Socialist Group is not sceptical about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u76	Irade the Talman! We are talking about this citizens' initiative in itself. This overall reform is much more than that. It concerns the penalty scale, the definition of rape and much more, and it will be discussed in due course. There are many rapes in Finland. There's a lot of sexual crimes going on. This has been the case for decades for some reason, and a considerable number of these remain undeclared, just as Mrs Suomela said. One big problem is why these are not reported. Well, they often happen by a relative, by an acquaintance. That's probably part of the problem. We should talk in schools about what a normal relationship is, which is normal sexual activity. We should consider what types of male models are offered to our boys, what is expected of men in general in their dealings and relationships, so that the boy, the man, does not get the impression that violent contact is in any way acceptable or normal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u77	So, and now, ladies and gentlemen, let us return to this list of speakers. Let us see if there is any further need for the debat, then we can try it out, but let us take some of these planned talks.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u78	Mr President! As has already been mentioned here in many speeches, the charge of aggravated rape of a 10-year-old girl fell in the Turku Court of Appeal because the evidence was insufficient to prove that the act was done by force, against her will. The District Court sentenced a man to three years in prison for aggravated sexual abuse of a child. The 10-year-old who was the victim of oral and vaginal rape, according to the court, was not resisting enough. The sexual torture and rape of tens of boys between the ages of 6 and 12 by men in high positions for years. Extremely raw and exceptionally extensive case of paedophile ring. For years, people are free to work even in the parish’s Children and Youth Task Force. A man violently raped a child who had been lured from social media. He was sentenced to parole by the District Court because he studied at a vocational college and did not use drugs. The court also considers that long imprisonment could be an essential and significant obstacle to the social survival of the sentenced person. So the court gave the child’s rapist 90 hours of community service, which the court later confirmed. Mr President! Yes — as can be seen from the examples I have read earlier, we have very important and serious problems with the investigation of sexual offences and rapes against women and children, convictions, interpretation of the law and judicial practices. We may also have problems in demonstrating a lack of consent, but the citizens' initiative now before us does not, in itself, intervene, bring changes or corrections to these issues. It has been great to hear today that the government is also going to address other shortcomings, including those which are too low. At the moment, this consent approach can even be negative for the victim, as happened with a 10-year-old girl. In other words, when the court interpreted that the girl had not resisted enough, she said that she was willing. Of course, most people with normal psyche realize that a 10-year-old cannot under any circumstances be genuinely willing to have oral and vaginal sex with an adult man. According to the court, the reasons for resisting a 10-year-old who is too small are quite elsewhere, and this is also generally understood by a normal person. Again, in this case, several criminal law experts were on the line of a normal person, pointing out, among other things, that a mere physically superior nature and age difference can be sufficient to meet the criteria for violence, i.e. in current legislation, to prove that it is rape. The work of the current law also states that the age of the person giving consent is important — but in practice this is not the case. Mr President! This citizens' initiative may be important. However, it does not correct what I believe to be the first thing to be done, and first of all it should be corrected. As many have said here, it is difficult, if not impossible, to show consent or lack of consent afterwards. At present, however, police resources do not provide the opportunity to give themselves consent to enquiries when the criminal investigation rate is constantly decreasing and legislative reforms are not followed by securing the necessary additional staff and resources. If the citizens' initiative is progressing and, as can be concluded from the Government Programme, additional resources must also be available to the police to deal with these crimes. Mr President! If we want to move to the consent model in Finland too, it is essential first to deal with these major fundamental problems related to sexual offences. Whether the victim has consented or not does not matter if the court condemns the author to a warm hand and the victim to a little euro from the taxpayer's bag to mental pain. Of course, the strengthening of the importance of sexual self-determination, which is clearly reflected in consent, is a good thing, but if, at the same time, we are not prepared to take effective action to eradicate sexual crimes and punish those responsible, it is just an empty promise and an empty letter of the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u79	Mr President! ‘Sex shall always be voluntary. If it is not voluntary, it is always a crime.” This is what the Swedish Prime Minister said in his argument about this change of law in our neighbourhood, just as this citizens' initiative is proposing — and that is exactly what it is. That is why this citizens' initiative is important, and that is why I thank Mrs Suomela once again for the great work she has done on this initiative, and thank all those very brave women who have dared to speak up and speak for women and girls in this difficult and painful debate, and at the same time thank all those who have stood by these victims and signed this initiative. Perhaps I would also like to correct that, contrary to what has now been repeatedly said in this Chamber, this citizens' initiative is, after all, based on the fact that a small child can never give consent to an adult, never. That is precisely what this citizens' initiative is saying, so let us not argue that something else is being proposed here than what is being genuinely proposed. That is why it is very good that the aim of this citizens' initiative has now been enshrined in the Government Programme and that the definition of rape in criminal law will be changed and changed so that the definition of rape is changed to a lack of consent. At the same time, we are reforming and tightening up our entire legislation on rape. This is something that needs to be done. I myself remember that when I was a little girl, in this Chamber we discussed whether a marriage could be raped. It must have been 25 years ago, but I still remember what it was like when I was a little girl to listen to the speeches about women's rights to their own bodies. At that time, there were some speeches similar to those previously used in this debate, that well whether there should be every permit slip or whether there should be any witnesses in the future in the bedroom. And everyone understands that this is not the case. Of course this is not the case. If it's unclear to anyone in this country if a partner wants to have sex, then there's one thing to do: you don't have sex. That's a question you always have to ask. Mr President! Generation after generation, women in this country have learned that what cannot be spoken of must be silent. Now, at last, women have dared to come forward and share the most painful and difficult experiences. They have told us of fear, humiliation, shame. And now that these women have come forward, they have done so that no one else will ever experience what they have experienced again. They have surpassed their own pain and shame for bringing about this change in this country. And they are the ones we must listen to now. This recent school health survey, which noted that the sexual harassment of girls in social media has clearly increased, that is to say, very much increased, which is really worrying news. At the same time, however, a THL specialist investigating this issue also commented that as part of the Too movement, girls are increasingly identifying what is right. They are increasingly aware of their own rights. Girls know their rights and they know their limits. That is what this citizens' initiative is all about. We want everyone to understand that the body of a woman and a girl is only her own. It's not up to anyone else. We want everyone to understand that not always means no and only yes means yes. We also want everyone to understand that this initiative is about listening to the victims. The pain of these girls, the courage of these women, must not be used as an instrument for driving or fomenting hatred or any other political agenda. And we want everyone to understand that rape is always a serious violation of self-determination. It is such a violation that goes through a person’s life no matter how much physical violence it involves. However, this is an issue that is not yet sufficiently recognised by Finnish legislation. All too often in Finland, the victim is the one who has to witness his own fear or experience of violence in a rape situation, even though, as Mr Suomela described well in the past, a large proportion of the victims are paralysed and too afraid that they will not be able to resist. Yet we have a criminal code that determines rape far too much based on the threat of violence or violence, not whether the victim has consent or not. Our law in its present form completely ignores the fact that sex without consent is always rape, and this is the message the victims and survivors want to tell us. At the same time, it may have to be said as a woman that it seems a little incredible that in 2019 we will still have to fight for the fact that if there is no consent, it is rape. Mr President! Our legislation always reflects the values of society, and I personally think that the girls and women of this country deserve such a law that is always on their side, always as their protection, such a law that strengthens their right to decide their own bodies and always takes their experiences seriously. The girls and women in this country deserve such a parliament that supports victims rather than guilt and suspicion, and they deserve such a judicial system where no victim will ever have to blame himself. That is why the Green Parliamentary Group and I are in favour of the lack of consent being recorded in the Finnish Criminal Code as a definition of rape. We have supported this citizens' initiative from the outset and we are pleased that the tightening of the legislation on rape is now part of the government programme. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u80	Mr President! The unfortunate fact is that we have had to grow up in a culture in which the starting point of sexual self-determination is not self-evident, and it is not happening in practice at the moment. On the contrary, we have had to grow up in a sexist and victimous culture. I want to see this change now. I want our children, unlike us, to grow up to the point where sexual self-determination, the right to immunity and the right to decide on their own body are fundamental. This existing law on violence or the threat of violence simply no longer reflects today's human rights thinking and the concept of sexual self-determination. That is why the time for this legislative amendment is now. Sexual self-determination means that everyone has, and must have, the right to decide how, when and with whom to engage in sexual activity. One's body is not automatically the object of sex; sex requires the desire and understanding of both parties. This citizens' initiative aims to ensure that sexual self-determination is realised. Sexual crime law must protect the right of sexual self-determination that belongs to us all. Sex without consent is rape, whether or not other violence is used. In our left-wing union, the overall reform of sexual crime legislation on the basis of sovereignty and the transformation of the definition of rape into a lack of consent are our long-term and important objectives. I am very pleased that these objectives have now been included in the Government Programme and that this citizens' initiative, which has gained a great deal of support, is helping to tighten up and encourage us to move forward. In other words, thank you very much, on my part, to those who have taken the initiative and to those who have signed it. The definition of rape is already based on consent in a number of European countries. This is also recommended by the UN Committee on Women's Rights. The Istanbul Convention on Combating and Preventing Violence against Women and Domestic Violence also obliges Finland to examine the characteristics of rape. The lack of consent in the definition of rape is also emphasised by the European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court and the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Prevention of Violence and Domestic Violence against Women. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also stated that a method of writing based on lack of consent would highlight the nature of rape as a violation of sexual self-determination and human rights, and that further consideration should be given to the possibility of developing the identity of rape in this direction. The debate around the consent campaign has at times been confusing. However, this change of attitude is progressing rapidly. This has been the subject of an important and major contribution, both the debate that started with the'me too' movement, and these examples from other countries, both the legislative initiative of the Parliament's women's network on the same subject, and now this citizens' initiative. In a short time, they have had an enormous impact on the debate, atmosphere and attitudes about sexual self-determination. This is a very important issue. Linking the definition of rape to lack of consent contributes to changing attitudes. It is an important message that every human being has a right of self-determination that must be respected, and this message and its further strengthening is indeed needed. In other words, there is a strong backlash to the reform work presented by this citizens' initiative, and it is our duty to ensure that this work is done now without delay.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u81	Mr President! The citizens' initiative intervenes in a matter of great importance in the defence of the individual's sexual autonomy. In the citizens' initiative, the central definition of rape has been raised as a lack of consent. The criminal code in force should be clarified so that sexual intercourse without consent is always rape. In this case, account should be taken of the inability of a capable victim to express his own will, which may be due, for example, to a state of fear. The citizens' initiative in the form of a legislative initiative has included a criterion of consent in order to determine when the consent is not valid. The Centre supports the objective of the citizens' initiative. Sexual self-determination is a fundamental human right which belongs to all people regardless of gender, age, sexual orientation or other considerations. So everyone has the right to freely determine their body and sexuality. So rape is an unambiguous act in which the victim has not consented to sexual intercourse, that is, without a voluntary consensus. The bill must take into account that the absence of opposition does not yet constitute consent. This is an important observation because history shows a number of situations when the victim has been unable to resist the act. In times of distress, the perpetrator is paralysed and unable to resist verbally or physically. In situations before sexual violence, there is often an imbalance of power, which makes it very difficult to form one’s own free will. In the case of children, it is also absolutely impossible. According to the current law, the plaintiff is responsible for resisting the act. To anchor the definition of rape to lack of consent is a step towards sexual self-determination. The European Court of Human Rights, the International Criminal Court and the Council of Europe Convention have also stressed the lack of consent as a fundamental element in the criminalisation of rape. Mr President! I regard this citizens' initiative as an important step towards a more robust rule of law. On the basis of both the common sense and the legal assessment, the characteristic of rape should explicitly mean that intercourse without the consent of another is clearly a punishable crime. If there is doubt in the interpretation of this characteristic, for example in the case law of the courts, a change in the description of rape must be made on the basis of the preparation of criminal law experts. In the same context, it is necessary to assess the needs of the whole reform of Chapter 20 of the Penal Code on sexual offences, just as many speakers have called for. The Government Programme also gives impetus to the citizens' initiative. The entry: ‘To implement the overall reform of the law on sexual offences,the startingpoints are incompatibility The definition of rape in criminal law shall be changed to a lack of consent, with due regard for legal protection.’ That is a very clear text. The Government Programme also mentions: ‘The criminality of the most violent and sexual offences is assessed to the extent that the punishment is sought In particular, the minimum penalties for serious sexual offences against children shall be increased.’ Again, a very clear text that should lead to practical action. Mr President! It is therefore time to take steps towards a stronger rule of law. We are dealing with the deepest human rights in life, that is, the right to be an entire person, and if anyone violates this right, the victim should be defended with all the power of the civilised state.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u82	Mr President! The right to decide on its own body and integrity is a fundamental human right, which legislation must protect. This should be taken for granted. Sex is only sex when it has the consent of all parties involved. That is why rape must be defined through lack of consent, as proposed in the citizens' initiative before us. This has also been committed to the Government Programme. This period will see the implementation of a comprehensive reform of sexual offences legislation, starting with immunity and sexual self-determination. The definition of rape in criminal law is changed to a lack of consent. It is also essential to be better able to support victims of sexual crimes. Mr President! Legislation has two meanings. Of course, it determines the limits of right and wrong, and in the case of criminal law in particular, it is the guiding principle of the police and the courts. On the other hand, legislation also has an impact on attitudes — what is perceived to be right and what is wrong and what is acceptable. For both reasons, it is important that legislation has a clear respect for the sexual autonomy of every human being. According to the latest school health survey published this week, as many as one third of girls have experienced disturbing sexual propositions or harassment during the past year. This share has grown alarmingly. Over the past year, 10 to 13 per cent of girls in upper secondary schools and in secondary schools have experienced sexual violence. For boys, the numbers are smaller, but of course every harassment is too much. There is still a great deal to be done about the integrity of girls, especially in social attitudes. Various social media phenomena, the most visible and widespread movement in recent years, have finally made visible what most women have known throughout their lives to be true. Sexual harassment and sexual violence are repugnant abuse of power — but unfortunately commonplace. We therefore need a change in culture, and it also needs changes in legislation to support it. Mr President! The struggle for women's right to self-determination is still under way around the world, and in many places in Europe, too, there are times when the battles that have already been won once again will have to be repeated. At a time like this, there is a need for unwavering defenders of equality and human rights in the world, and this is where Finland should take its place. It is necessary to make the discriminatory structures of society visible and to break them. Laws must be corrected, attitudes must be changed and equality must be defended in order to make the world a better and safer place for all of us. No means no, and just yes means yes. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u83	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the citizens' initiative and the activists for raising this issue. Sexual crimes cause deep suffering even throughout life, and there is far too much silence on this subject. With this discussion of the citizens' initiative, I have heard extremely touching stories about people who may have been the victim of rape a long time ago and who have so far been silent about it. Thank you for giving a voice to so many victims. These people who tell their story or tell me are unfortunately just the tip of the iceberg. Representative Hyrkko reported, among other things, on this school health survey, in which up to one in three girls of school age have experienced sexual harassment, and one in ten girls in secondary school or secondary school have experienced sexual violence — one in ten. These figures are arresting, although the prevalence of sexual harassment and violence should not come as a surprise to anyone. It is also noteworthy that the majority of victims fail to tell an adult. It often brings shame and fear to the victims. This tells us that things and attitudes are not right, and we must change as a society. Human body image is influenced by the attitudes and values of the surrounding community. Our legislation shows the direction that is right and what is wrong. What we are dealing with here is a citizens' initiative that promotes the full power of a person to decide on his own body, that the violation of another’s immunity is unambiguously wrong and punishable and that sex without consent is rape. Sexual contact must always and in every situation be the will of all the parties involved, a matter for which all the parties are willing. I guess this should be a foregone conclusion. It is therefore right that the government is now reforming the legislation on rape and turning the legislation into consent-based legislation, and intensifying the sentences of sexual offences, increasing the number of shelters and launching a programme to combat violence against women. An increase in the number of police officers will contribute to a better investigation of these crimes, and that is what the government is now investing in. When consent is needed for sexual intercourse, it clearly means that silence cannot be interpreted as a sign of consent, and that is the main problem. If a person is silent, crying, then there is no consent. This is a clear tightening up of legislation, as there are very many of these situations where the victim is paralysed — according to the study, up to about 70% of the situations. I would like to thank those involved in the citizens' initiative for raising this important issue and for their work on the issue of self-determination.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u84	Mr President! At first, I too would like to thank you for this very important citizens' initiative. Current Finnish legislation examines rape through the use of violence or the threat of rape, not according to whether the victim has consented to sexual acts. Under current legislation, rape is condemned by a perpetrator who has taken advantage of the fact that the victim is unable to defend himself or to form or express his will to have sexual intercourse with the offender because of unconsciousness, illness, disability, fear or other helpless state. Everyone should have the right to sexual self-determination, and everyone should be given the right to determine their own body. Everyone has their own personal knowledge of when to act on their own borders. Under no circumstances shall this limit be exceeded without consent. For example, the Psychological Association has taken a position on the lack of consent in the definition of rape. According to them, a significant proportion of rape victims feel paralyzed in the case of rape, making it impossible to resist both verbal and physical. While working as a nurse in the ER, I treated several rape victims. I encountered several rape victims from the eye to the eye. I remember many victims saying that the whole situation was so arrogant, humiliating and paralyzing that it was impossible to act in that situation. Under current legislation, submission, paralysis or strategic passivity can be interpreted as consent, thus allowing violations of self-determination to remain unfulfilled and the victim's legal security to be implemented. Current legislation does not respect sexual self-determination. I am very pleased that the Government Programme states: ‘To implement the overall reform of the law on sexual offences, which is based on the principle of incompatibility and the right to self-determination. “ The lack of consent must be brought to the heart of the definition of rape in the Finnish Criminal Code. It is good that we want to remedy this lack of legislation. As Minister Henriksson said earlier, the Ministry of Justice is working on a working group on the overall reform of sexual law, i.e. the overall reform. This debate on the change to the definition of rape, which raised the heat in the Chamber, is just one point of the reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u85	Mr President! Of course, I would like to thank those who took the initiative, but I would also like to thank the Group of the Finnish People's Party, because it is important that the opposition should also be given support to the government of the country, which will now contribute to the objectives of the citizens' initiative. In particular, it is important that the opposition also make every effort to promote clarification of this criminal law, which is also stated here and has already been stated in the Government Programme. It is particularly good to see that the government is serious about this issue, and the Government Programme has stated: ‘The definition of criminal rape is changed to a lack of consent based on the lack of legal protection. “ So, obviously, we've already been on the move, which is good. There have been some colorful speeches here, but, as it may be logical to say, we all have the same direction and the same desire for this legislation to be amended. The main objectives of both this initiative and the government's efforts are above all to improve the status of victims. The common sense says that intercourse without the consent of another is rape, which is condemned. In the event of any ambiguity in the interpretation of this characteristic, the change in the description of rape must be made, above all, on the basis of criminal law experts. I hope that there will be a broad debate, a broad consultation and a clearer and more coherent legal framework.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u86	Mr President! There is a citizens' initiative that has been signed by more than 50,000 people. Thank you to those who have signed the initiative. The signatories call for a change in the definition of Chapter 20 of the Penal Code, the central task of which is to protect the sexual self-determination of the individual. The key definition of rape has been raised as a lack of consent when, in the current criminal record, the definition of rape prioritises the use or threat of violence in the characterisation of the offence. The citizens' initiative recalls that sexual self-determination is a fundamental human right which belongs to all people regardless of their gender, age, sexual orientation or other considerations. Rape is an act in which the victim has not consented to sexual intercourse. As I said earlier, Finland is therefore committed in international agreements to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. This Istanbul Convention is a regional human rights treaty binding on Finland, and it regulates the identity of rape, and it describes rape as sexual intercourse without the consent of the victim. This is also the case in many countries, namely Sweden, Germany and the United Kingdom. Mr President! Amnesty International recommends that a comprehensive reform of sexual offences legislation should be carried out in Finland, where sexual offences are defined centrally through the lack of consent of the victim, and that adequate resources be provided to the police, prosecutors and courts and the continued capacity to deal with rape cases in an sensitive and effective manner and without undue delay, as well as to ensure adequate resources for support centres to assist victims of sexual offences in order to provide comprehensive support and assistance to victims of crime. Mr President! The Government of the slope takes this matter seriously and in the sense that these entries will be assessed and specified. The Government Programme states: ‘The overall reform of the law on sexual offences is carried out on the basis ofinfectivity The definition of rape in criminal law will be changed to a lack of consent based on legal certainty. Expand the services and national coverage of support centres for victims of sexual offences’. The Government Programme also states that ‘The criminality of the most violent and sexual offences is assessed to the extent that the punishment is In particular, the minimum penalties for serious sexual offences against children shall be increased.’ There is a working group in the Ministry of Justice to do this, and it seems that next spring the results will be brought to our attention. Mr President! Verification of consent or non-concession in criminal investigations will continue to be a challenge in many cases. In 2017, 1244 rapes were reported to the police, of which only 358 were prosecuted and only 209 were prosecuted. In total, only 17% of rapes reported to the police lead to a criminal conviction. It certainly reflects the difficulty of proving evidence when you are in court against the word, and without evidence, of course, you must not be convicted of rape. There must be clear evidence of guilt, because rape as a crime is also so low and stigmatising that mere suspicion and prosecution can ruin innocent lives if this is the case. In criminal circles, rapists are the lowest scum in the world. I myself know about living life in a couple of cases where a young man has been accused of rape, and in both cases, however, a young man has been found innocent in court on clear evidence. This has been in the background at the second point of a woman’s revenge relationship, and in the second case there had just become regret and that’s why she went on rape charges. It must be the case that all justice in these matters is carried out, and false revelations are also punishable. Does this possible change in the definition of rape mean how many more instruments for criminal investigators I do not know, but the approach would take better account of the status of victims, and in that sense I also support the objectives of this citizens' initiative. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u87	Mr President! During the last couple of years, a lively social debate has taken place in Finland about the lack of consent as a criterion for rape, which has also been the subject of this citizens' initiative. One of the drivers of this debate has been the case of the Turku Court of Appeal, where the rape of a 10-year-old girl was only interpreted as sexual abuse of a child. This shows the situations that can arise when rape is perceived only through the use of violence. Indeed, in the current legislation, the key sign of rape is the violence used in connection with the act and the act is defined as rape only if it involves violence or the threat of it being used. Of course, it is clear, as has been said here today, that legislation should indicate that from a human rights point of view rape is in itself violence. That is clear, of course. At the end of 2017, I myself put a written question to the then government, and then Minister Häkkänen said in his reply that there were no changes in this regard. After that, however, this debate on the part of the public was further stimulated, and it has been nice to note that this debate on the part of the Rinte government has been well taken into account and has now been included in the new government's programme, and there is indeed going to be this overall reform of sexual offences legislation, which is based on integrity and sexual self-determination, and indeed this lack of consent is also being brought to the heart of the definition of rape. I think this is a very good indication of how the social debate will make a difference in politics, and indeed this issue raised by the citizens' initiative is now coming to fruition. As Mr Asell said there, we have a working group in the Ministry of Justice on the overall reform of sexual crime law and, by the end of May, we are waiting for the results from where the matter will proceed. So it is really great that this citizens' initiative and the government programme entry seem to be on the right track, and we can be happy about it together.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u88	Mr President! Rape is one of the most gross and judgmental acts in the Criminal Code, and the judgments that come out of it are a source of much debate and disbelief. For example, the legislator, or parliament, has imposed a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison for aggravated rape, but the courts do not, for one reason or another, comply with the will of the legislator. This is a problem that we are now trying to remedy by various means. This would require a broader social and legal debate. However, as a catalyst for this debate, the legislative initiative that has now been taken up will do its job, and I thank those who have done so, even though the initiative itself could in practice lead to a reduction in penalties rather than a reduction in severity. That is why I do not support this initiative. According to the principle of criminal law, the characterisation of a criminal offence must be expressed in the law with sufficient precision, so that the wording of the provision makes it possible to predict whether any activity is punishable or not, i.e. whether the offender is guilty of the offence or not. Is the citizens’ initiative intended to move the ‘doluseventualis’ threshold, which could lead to an inadmissibility of rape? The word rape reminds me of the violent assault of an unknown offender, even though most of the sexual crimes committed in the everyday life of a police officer occur within four walls between persons in a relationship and acquaintances. It's a rare case of an unknown unsub's bulldozer. Thus, the overwhelming majority of rape cases occur among acquaintances, and only in about a sixth of cases the perpetrator and the victim are unknown to each other. About one third of sexual offences that end up in court are between spouses or social partners, and alcohol and other drugs are essentially related to these crimes. According to the principle of criminal law, the offender must know that he is guilty of a crime. My question is: how should the consent of the citizens' initiative be expressed explicitly and concretely before starting a sexual relationship? For one person, taking off clothes can only communicate consent if the other wants intimacy without sexual intercourse. For another, a mere seductive look sends out a promise of sexual intercourse. So how should consent be shown? How will the validity of consent be ensured until the end of sexual intercourse? When withdrawal of consent is possible at any time, it is possible to create a situation in which one of the parties to the act alters its consent without however expressing it to the other. Is it the one who doesn't report it? And what should be done in a situation where both change their consent without expressing it to another? In this case, can both parties commit rape? The fact that sexual offences are often associated with substance abuse must be borne in mind. The lack of consent of the victim is already in the current legislation in the penal code on rape as a built-in assumption. The lack of consent is referred to by the expression ‘which imposes another’ in the description of rape. It would therefore be worth including in the debate the definition of acts carried out in breach of consent rather than the lack of consent. I therefore propose that we discuss the addition of the symbol of rape in such a way that all acts of sexual intercourse carried out in violation of consent are taken into account instead of moving to the model of consent. There is no need to raise such a lack of consent as a starting point.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u89	Mr President! Most likely, each of us knows victims of rape, but we do not know that they are victims of rape. When I have had a conversation with my friends in my own circle of acquaintances in confidential situations, it has come to light that an amazing number of women have experienced being raped. According to a crime victim survey conducted in Finland, about 50,000 women are raped or sexually assaulted each year. Most of these crimes never come to the police. Fifty thousand a year means half a million in ten years. Indeed, from these figures it can be concluded that each one of us is likely to know more than one person who has been raped, yet we do not know that such an experience exists in his life. In 2017, the police recorded 1,245 suspected rapes, a little more than every 50th compared to the number of victims of sexual violence per year according to a crime victim survey. The sentence was handed down for 209 rapes, i.e. about one in six cases reported to the police. The victims interviewed described criminal processes as stressful, frightening and stigmatizing. I remember when in the '90s, when I was a new Member of Parliament, there were also public cases where, according to everyday perception, rape had taken place, but the sentence was different. As has already been said many times here, the current law — and then the law — requires violence or otherwise such clear coercion. I remember that in the '90s, on the other hand, the police's advice to women in a situation where the rapist is already attacking was that do not resist, because you can risk yourself even more. There the victim of the crime is faced with a contradictory situation: on the one hand, he is advised not to resist, not to go even worse, but on the other hand, in order to prove that there is a victim of a rape offence, it should be possible to prove that violence has been used and resistance has been made. This is now just one example from the point of view of the victim of the difficulties that exist with current legislation. Those who have investigated these cases also know that it is very common for a so-called freeze to occur in a rape situation, i.e. the victim to be overwhelmed or otherwise to become powerless, not even to be able to resist and, in such a situation, not to be able to prove that he has resisted. Overall, from the point of view of the victim and the potential victim, current legislation does not reflect what I believe to be a general concept of justice at the moment. There are evidence questions in every crime. When matters are weighed in a court of law, each crime must be weighed between the word of the victim and the author’s word and the various degrees of evidence, and the courts will of course do their best to do so. I would also like to remind you that standards change. During my first parliamentary term, one of the standards that changed was that marriage rape was taken into criminal law. Before that, if the spouse raped, it was not a crime before criminal law. It was then changed in the first half of the 1990s, and I think now, more than 25 years later, is the time to take the next step and say that legislation must be based on the human right to immunity, including sexual integrity, and that sexual acts can only be done on the basis of the consent of one person.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u90	Mr President! This citizens' initiative raises a question that is important in many ways. Thank you to the authors of the initiative and to all its signatories. There are numerous examples that current legislation is not sufficient at the moment. Up to now, the definition of rape has included threats or coercion of violence or that the victim has been otherwise vulnerable. We need legislation that protects sexual self-determination. This legislation, the consent law, does not mean signing agreements or anything like that. That means one way or another you have to ask: I want to, you want to, and if you don't, I don't want to. It's that simple. I do not think it is as difficult, complicated or problematic as Mrs Packalén suggested. It is time we understood the importance of consent and this must also be reflected in our legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u91	Mr President! This citizens' initiative under discussion is a good example of the functioning of the citizens' initiative system. It will bring matters to the attention of Parliament and, above all, make it possible to open up the social debate and even reform the legislation in an appropriate direction, so I would like to add my voice to the thanks that have been given in this Chamber to those behind the citizens' initiative, to those who have signed it and, in particular, to Mrs Suomela, who has been the author of the initiative in this respect. It is quite clear to me — and it seems to me that this is an issue on which we all agree — that we must be better able to deal with sexual offences. It is also quite clear to me that legislation should be updated to reflect self-determination, and I see that this means that sex requires the consent of both sides when two of them are involved in sex. In reforming the legislation, violations of self-determination should be criminalised as far as possible, and this should be the basis for the reforms that are now being introduced in the area of sexual offences. Since this is an issue and an objective on which we seem to have a rather broad consensus, it would not necessarily be appropriate to look back terribly, but there has now been reference to the last few speeches, so a small reminder of it. Indeed, the legislation on sexual offences was tightened last season, and these most urgent changes specifically concerned serious sexual offences against children. These changes also included the abrasion of minimum penalties; some speakers referred to this. Although the citizens' initiative and the debate surrounding it have certainly contributed to setting out the reforms that have already taken place, the then Justice Minister Häkkänen has in fact launched this working group, which has been referred to on several occasions — and also the expert forum to examine the basis of consent for rape offences — in the last period even before signatures were collected for the citizens' initiative, unless I am quite wrong about others, i.e. early 2018. Furthermore, it was on the mandate of Minister Häkkänen that this overall reform of the regulation on rape and exploitation offences and this working group work was launched during the last period, and it is really great that the new government is now continuing on this very basis. Mr President! I also think it is valuable to remember that the previous Parliament gave very strong support for the reform of sexual offences legislation. During the last period, in connection with the legislative amendments mentioned above, Parliament made more than one statement unanimously. These statements mention, among other things — and I shall mention those who, in particular, raised the issue in the debates above — that the characterisation of rape offences should also be assessed in other respects than as regards acts against children. In addition, the statements required a strengthening of the status of consent in the definition of rape offences and other sexual offences. I personally support the legislative changes required by the citizens' initiative in Chapter 20 of the Criminal Code. I supported them last season, from the very beginning of this citizens' initiative. It is a pleasure to be involved and to follow its progress. It would be very important for Parliament now to give strong, united support, just as it did last season, to this overall reform of rape and exploitation crimes and to take account of this basis of consent as part of this overall reform. This will enable us to continue working together to correct the shortcomings we have experienced, just as we did last season.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u92	Madam President! Mr Sirén referred to this last season's bill, the tightening up of the penalties for sexual exploitation of children, which was right at the end of the line at our house when the season ended. In this context, there were indeed these various statements which Sirén described here, and I will not repeat them. Here, at the very beginning of the debate, it was said that Parliament has not been able to tighten up these penalties for sexual offences, and that is partly true and partly not. This reform, which was carried out at the end of it, raised this maximum penalty from four to six years, but then the so-called minimum penalty could not be increased from one year to two years. This was because constitutional professors felt that the change was so large that it affected the so-called principle of proportionality. In other words, if a law is to be amended so significantly that it is to be considered in relation to other legislation, then it must go through the Constitutional Committee in order for this principle of proportionality to be fulfilled. This was a difficult thing, that the citizens could not quite understand why this kind of decision was not made. Well, a decision can be made, but it was not done so quickly, because when the Committee on Legal Affairs took this matter to the Constitutional Committee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs announced that they did not have time to deal with it because of these social welfare laws, so the Committee on Legal Affairs withdrew this proposal and stated that once this overall reform of the laws relating to sexual offences is coming, it can be dealt with in that context. As far as this citizens' initiative is concerned, I welcome it with pleasure. I hope that it will be treated well, that it will be fair, fair and in that way a law adopted on the basis of Finnish case law, so-called good preparation, and I believe that there will also be a broad majority in this Parliament for the sake of the seriousness of this issue. No one should be forced into sexual intercourse without consent, and this is a very basic matter, and it is a miracle that it has not come into criminal law before. But it has to be handled carefully, because it is not a one-sided issue, it is a very diverse issue, many aspects, so when the debate here has become clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u93	Madam President! Thank you to those who took the initiative. The initiative is important to get rapists convicted, but it requires careful preparation before it is written into law. The requirement for the accuracy and accuracy of the law requires, in support of the registration of consent, legal provisions on the legal basis as to when the consent is validly granted in criminal terms and when it is not. In Finland, it has not been customary to include such provisions in the law. It is therefore important to define precisely what is a criminally valid consent so that no one, knowingly or for the purpose of error, commits a rape offence. As far as the burden of proof is concerned, it is up to the prosecutor to prove the charge. So how will it be assessed against this background whether the accused has been aware of a lack of consent? How does the prosecution prove that the burden of proof is not turned on the accused? How will the free examination of evidence in use in Finland be carried out if the abovementioned provisions on the existence or lack of valid consent are written in the law? What is important is, as has been the case in Sweden in the preparation of this law, that consent or lack of consent should be clearly made known to another. It is questionable to place the sole responsibility of the other party to determine the existence or lack of consent and to continue to take responsibility for the offence if such reasoning is to be made out of purely one party's conduct instead of giving clear consent. In such situations, how would the intentional or negligent nature of the penalty be assessed? Therefore, the forthcoming drafting of the law must be carried out with the utmost care and consultation of experts: how will consent be recorded in the law?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-18-ps-33.u95	Mr President! With regard to the subject matter of this initiative, I was also surprised that, last season, there were some legislative initiatives in Parliament signed by more than a hundred Members of Parliament in connection with the strengthening of the sentence in sexual offences, especially those against children, how did they not progress? As a matter of fact, it's a representative. Mr Laukkanen, in his previous speech, answered my questions so excellently that I would like to see ministers reply with the same clarity. So the problem was basically that these interpretations are made in courts. That's where they've learned how to do them. If the tables are applied slightly to these types of crime and strictly to some types of crime, then it is also a matter of appreciation. The fact is, however, that there is legislative power in this country in this Chamber, not in the final analysis, but in this Chamber, and we have the power and responsibility to bring out the public's sense of justice on these issues as well.
