ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The matter shall be referred to the Audit Committee, to which the other specialised committees shall deliver an opinion by 27 September 2019 at the latest.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u2	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! With this change of government, I would like to draw attention to two points: continuity over government periods and, at the same time, information management in this context. They have repeatedly emerged in different contexts. I myself have encountered them first and foremost in my research environment and also in the field of public leadership in various tasks. A year ago, I was also involved in the preparation of Sitra’s public management discussion initiative, and the key challenges in this process were not only phenomena-based but also extensively knowledge-based management and continuity in the event of a change of government periods and ensuring continuity to a large extent. The Government's Annual Report provides an excellent tool for this. In fact, it has assessed the implementation and results of the Government Programme not only during 2018, but also during the entire Government term. It is possible, probably, that the new government wants to tell you that it is going to turn around, bring about something new, big. It is likely in some way to break up with the previous government and start over. It is usually a good thing to have a spark and be ambitious, but at the same time in the big picture it is good to stop and ask how things go with predictability, long-term, continuity. Does not our society right now need a common vision of far-sightedness that carries beyond the reigns? Now that the Regent House is drawing up a new government programme, I hope that the negotiators will have time to familiarise themselves with this report of the Board of Directors, bearing in mind that the evaluation is different from the criticism. The new government will certainly want to do some things differently from the previous one, but hopefully there will also be a willingness to identify those things where the previous government has succeeded and where continuity is needed over the term of government – there are many of them. This document provides a good basis for this. I personally hope for continuity, above all in raising employment rates and managing public finances, but the report highlights a number of other examples in which the previous government was able to take very effective action. I hope that this can be discussed in this spirit today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u3	Mr President! Mr Ikonen drew attention to an important issue, namely that we can always learn from the past, but we still have a lot to do. It is noteworthy that today, our Ministry of Employment and the Economy announced how employment will continue to grow, but growth will start to decline. Together - and that is true - we have a lot to do to ensure that the positive employment development continues and thereby strengthen our financial base, for example, for social and health services. [of the Group of the European People's Party: Do not destroy the good inheritance!]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u6	Mr President! Indeed, we are dealing with the Government's annual report for 2018, and this is an excellent opportunity now to discuss both the economic outlook — to look at last year and this situation — and then the many policy sectors. Finland’s public finances have been in deficit throughout the past decade. In 2018, the deficit was EUR 1.3 billion, or 0.6 per cent of GDP, and it must also be noted that public finances were still in debt. The President of the Republic, Mr Niinistö, also drew attention to the fact that we have not actually been spared here, but that we are still in debt. The general government debt ratio was 58.9 per cent of GDP. Well, what is very positive when we look at the year 2018 is the development of employment. Of course, we also thank the previous government for this, but also, of course, the world economy for the fact that the trend in the employment rate exceeded the government's employment rate target at the end of 2018. It is now very important to consider the direction in which the economy, employment and entrepreneurship are being developed. The messages of the next Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Rinte, are likely to anticipate that part of the budget expenditure, the normal budget expenditure, will be considered as investments that could be made by means of additional debt. Some of the expenditure increases promised by Rinne would be financed by tax increases on enterprise and ownership. [Column Group : Ohhh! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u11	There seems to be a willingness to debat, but let us take a few speeches before that: Heinäluoma, Wallinheimo and Antikainen, and then a short debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u12	Mr President! As the Board's Annual Report for 2018 shows, one of the biggest efforts of the year for the country's government was to complete the construction of the social welfare house, as it can be built on a very tight schedule. The problem was that two different construction methods were pulling the project in two different directions and the experts who helped the contractors did not believe that the structures would withstand this cross-subsidisation. As a result, the preparation of the house had to be abandoned in March 2019 due to its impossibility. Ladies and gentlemen! The collapse of the previous government's social welfare market model does not leave very many to be grieved. Even though the government tried to exhale a project criticised by many social and constitutional experts to the very end, it was finally recognised by the government: this market model has now reached a dead end. Fortunately, however, the preparation of the house did not go wrong and some of the pieces can be saved for a better construction. The enormous work that has been done on behalf of experts, civil servants and municipalities in recent years is worthy of further work. Now is the time to focus on how the next government should start the process of social reform. First, we need to look at the state of care. Until now, special care has been working quite well, and the problems have been in the care of the elderly and in primary health care. That's why repair shops should be made where the problems are. That is why I very much welcome the phenomenon-based method of preparation for the government negotiations: Let's not assume that the walls of the house have to be certain. Let's start with the fact that the house to be built is home when it's finished. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! In particular, access to healthcare is difficult. As a Helsinki-based decision-maker, I know that there are big differences within the capital of our country in the lines of health stations. In some parts of Helsinki, you can get to a doctor in a couple of days, and in some parts you have to wait up to six weeks. This isn't right. Now it would be wise for us to recognize that solutions also require more medical personnel, both doctors and nurses. In the care of the elderly, care is a concrete way of ensuring an adequate number of care staff. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to draw attention to the role of the most populous region in our country in the reform process. A total of 1.6 million people live in the Uusimaa region. The capital region is growing rapidly, and it is also the driving force behind economic growth in the whole country. Urbanisation will not stop over the next few years. People seek jobs, studies and loved ones in the cities. For example, in recent years the population of Helsinki has grown faster than ever since the 1960s. For the future, it is not sustainable for the reform of social and health services to be carried out without taking into account the needs of growing population centres and, in particular, the fastest growing metropolitan area. The next government must involve the capital region in the further preparation of the social welfare reform. This will ensure that the Finnish social model for the future will be built to meet the challenges of the 2080s. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u13	Mr President! As I read the Government's Annual Report on 18 in this reading, two current aspects emerged: The first relates to parliamentary election campaigns and, in particular, to the rhetoric used by parties now taking on government power, excluding the centre. That includes barking at the government about everything, including the rupture of income disparities, the exclusion of young people and the development of education. What, then, Mr President, is this government annual report about these claims by future government parties? The answer is another story. For example, in terms of income differentials, the Annual Report notes that ‘the growth in income differentials and low incomes appears to have stopped ‘and’income differentials in Finland, however,are among the smallest Similarly, the situation of young people is shown to be as follows: In particular, the loneliness of young boys has decreased.” The report also states that the quality of life of Finns has improved and that the level of education of the population has risen. Similarly, on the basis of the report, it can be argued that Finland bears greater responsibility for global development. This is reflected in Finland’s commitment to help other countries achieve sustainable development. In the fight against climate change, the report states that we are at the top of the EU's agenda and that the state of the environment has improved. Mr President! Finland’s secret is the more ambitious use of renewable energy than other EU countries. In 2017, 37 per cent of total energy consumption and more than 40 per cent of final consumption were covered by renewable energy sources. About three-quarters of renewable energy is based on wood fuels. Although the use of Finnish wood has increased, more than one-fifth of the growth remains in forests to increase tree capital and carbon sequestration. Most importantly, this transformation of Finland into a more sustainable and prosperous direction has been carried out during a period of rigorous economic policy. As a result, public finances appear to be balancing in the light of the forecast in the 2020s. So not a bad achievement for the government that now wants to get rid of the House of Regulation. Mr President! The second reason for this speech is the concerns raised in the same report about Finland's development. The sustainability of public finances is highlighted here, which is not corrected by the current good economic cycle. Therefore, public finances should be clearly in surplus at the beginning of the next decade in order to be on a sustainable basis to meet future expenditure pressures arising from the ageing population. However, some of the disparaging comments about the sustainability gap in the economy, for example, do not suggest that this is what we Finns are getting. Instead of real future investments, priority will be given to the redemption of the expensive electoral promises made in the run-up to the elections, even if by debt or tax increases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u14	Mr President! In this Annual Report of the Board of Directors for 2018, most concerns were caused not so much by what was written but by what had been deliberately withheld. In 2015, Prime Minister Juha Sipilä presented an invitation to the Middle East with fatal consequences. Tens of thousands of mainly young men marched to Finland, and as many feared, so to speak, it began to happen. As we now know, the internal security of our country was shaken as a result of that thoughtless throw. The provision of Juha Sipilä's own home was widely reported in the Middle East. After this, two women in Turku lost their lives and eight were wounded as a result of a terrorist attack. Since then, an even greater number of girls and women have been victims of rape and exploitation. Mr President! I ask why the government does not raise the issue of the rise of Islamic extremism and sexual crimes against women and girls in its report on internal security. In its amending budget, the Government budgeted EUR 4.7 million to combat the sexual exploitation of children, but in its annual report it does not mention the magnitude of the rise in sexual offences in Finland since 2015. Of Finnish women and children, few feel safer moving outside now than four years ago before the beginning of Juha Sipilä's reign. Mr President! In the Government's annual report, the point of internal security begins in these words: "Prime Minister One of the objectives of Sipilä’s Government’s Government Programme is that Finland is the safest country in the world to live in.” After all this, you can ask the government and especially Juha Sipilä, who unfortunately is not here: how did it go like it was in his own mind? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u15	Now I ask those representatives who want to debat, to use the reply, to press the V-button — V as the answer — from that panel and stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u16	Mr President! The Annual Report of the Board of Directors mentions the reform of social security and how it fell. I am very concerned about the way we are now going to make new mess. The spirit of the Committee on Social Affairs was very poor, and memories of it remained. Many people have asked whether they dared come to the Committee on Social Affairs at all when it was so awful to make such a mess. I think it is very important that it is done parliamentaryly and also that the opposition be listened to and involved in these preparatory work. I would also like to ask how we proceed here. I think it is very important that better reconciliation between working life and family care be carried forward in this coming period. It is mentioned in this report. I would also like to ask how people in work are supported in this opportunity for informal care. But we're going to have a lot of dirt on our necks, and we're going to make sure it doesn't produce the same kind of farce as last season.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u17	Mr President! Mr Ikonen quite rightly urged that there should be predictability and continuity between government periods. However, it is precisely the fact that the previous government was exceptionally non-consensus-minded that makes this difficult at the moment, on the contrary, it actually broke the consensus with which the Finnish welfare society has been built. Market calls, privatisation, halving development funds from global responsibility and increasing inequality — all of these were elements that violated the consensus spirit, which would then have called for this continuity. Now the new government will inevitably have to take a new line, restore the old approach in which a solidarity-based Finland is built and recognised to the extent that it knows no borders, that is to say, international responsibility. In this respect, this continuity is the long line, not the line followed here by the previous government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u18	Mr President! Mr Räsänen raised the starting point from which to start this government, whose programme is now being negotiated. The economy is in better shape, employment is increasing. I must agree with the outgoing Prime Minister. To the words of Sipilä: “Don’t be a mess. “ This spring, he said:‘Antti is good,and it is That's a head-fucker. Then it drops the employment rate. Dividend taxation is one of the main incentives for small and medium-sized non-listed companies, do not, Antti, touch it. That is where the work comes from: small and medium-sized enterprises.” This is what Juha Sipilä said to Antti Rinte. As Mr Räsänen pointed out, this is where the centre is now a lot of security. The Green Left is beginning to chastise Finnish entrepreneurs hard, and it is hoped that the centre will withstand this pressure and be able to hold to these threshold questions, that the taxation of entrepreneurs or, on the other hand, the deduction of entrepreneurs
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u19	Mr President! I do not think Mr Heinonen has to worry about the city centre. When compared with the last red soil government, which was more than ten years ago, with the last Red Red Government, where the coalition guarded these entrepreneurs' taxes, the difference is quite significant: the Red mud government abolished the property tax, made a quite reasonable business tax reform, took a 60% reduction in the generation, the capital tax was 28% after that. During the last Red Government, dividend tax was heavily tightened,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u20	Mr President! Here is what came up well, where there is a need for a continuum and where there is no continuum. At least it was obvious to me when I went to Tammelantori every day and to various parts of Pirkanmaa to talk to the public that the great concern was precisely that the development of inequality had moved forward enormously, that is to say that many low-income pensioners came to say that there was a minus mark in the purse as a result of the government's year after year freeze of these indices — whether the economy was growing or in a slightly more difficult situation, so it was always the same thing that the purse of the weaker people was being visited. That is why I see that a change of direction in these matters has certainly been what the people wanted when they voted. President! I would like to thank Mr Heinäluomaa for his speech because he also raised another important issue: the issues that citizens were concerned about were access to health services and care for the elderly. In them, for example, this writing of nurseship in the law is a matter of essence.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u21	Mr President! Mr Viitanen here was concerned about inequality, and surely we all want to work to reduce inequality. I believe that the best way to reduce inequality is to have work for all people of working age and able to work. It is indeed a pleasure to read this Government's Annual Report for 2018, when it has been possible to record that the government's employment target has been met. The future government must set an even more ambitious employment target of at least 75% in order to safeguard the Finnish welfare society and prevent this fear of inequality. However, I am concerned that, having heard the good news about this large bioproduct plant investment planned in Kemi, for example, the parties that form the government have now spoken that such investments would not be welcome in Finland. This is where we would like answers from the representatives of the government parties: do you want a job?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u22	Let's try to make these responses within a minute. Congressman Räsänen will show you how.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u23	Mr President! From the point of view of this debate, it is pleasant that parties are also represented here who are currently negotiating a government programme at the House of Regulation. That is why, of course, we would like to see some possible answers already available: do you, for example, have the impression that the social reform is actually being launched by means of parliamentary preparation? On the other hand, I am surprised that Government Confessor Rinne justified this composition of government negotiators by the fact that those in the party's day jobs are not enough for every table. I understand that a rather large part of the Social Democrats' representatives who work full-time have not been elected there on the negotiating tables, but from other parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u25	Mr President! Mr Juvonen asked about the progress of the social welfare reform. As the government negotiator Rinne has said many times, the work will continue on a parliamentary basis, so in that sense we can be calm. Mr Vanhanen has already left, but I thank him for having a long memory of what the red soil has done. I believe that the good work will now continue. Then on this participation in the groups: Our whole parliamentary group is involved in these government negotiations in a different way. Not everyone is there around the round table, but we are in the background, so we are all aware of what is happening there.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u26	Mr President! However, I am surprised at the arrogance of Mr Vanhanen's attitude towards the support given by Mr Heinonen to the centre during the government negotiations. Of course, it is great to hear that the centre is doing excellently there and does not need any support. For my part, I wish the centre every success in changing the policy that the Sipilä government was pursuing. I personally believe that many important and good things will be highlighted in government negotiations and government activities. Coming to invest in education, will be a family reform, will increase care in the care of the elderly and so on. I hope that this will not be done by cutting off children's debts. As far as Mr Viitanen’s nurseship is concerned, let us see whether 0.7 will come into force at the turn of the year. I'm sure it won't.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u27	Mr President! It is good to push ahead with this government's annual report, and I too would like to ask a few questions here. We really need sustainable development, policy coherence and a long-term approach to our actions, and now Parliament is also very much renewed from its representatives, and government negotiations are taking place. There has been much talk of poverty among pensioners and of raising small pensions, and I would have liked to know if there is any hope that a fair mid-term index could be put to the test in the coming years. On the other hand, are there concrete ways of combining family and study or family and work? And also when the training cuts have been very harmful and extensive, in what way is the training taking on the posture? We get a lot of those from elementary school.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u28	Mr President! Who knows history, who can understand the present and also predict the future, and, of course, when we deal specifically with last year's report on the government's activities, we must be happy to mention it and we can all agree that employment has been a good development throughout the last period. Of course, it is not only the government’s credit, but it is also greatly affected by the government’s actions. There has been much talk of increased income disparities, but this activity report shows that the growth in income differentials and low incomes seems to have stalled, and an increasing number of 15 to 24-year-olds are also in education and employment, and the level of education of our population has risen. But there has been inequality in the increasing inequality in residential areas, and there must also be a lot to do. To that last period: employment is indeed at its peak, and today we have learned that it will continue to grow. In addition to the Government's annual report, I would like to say that perhaps just the praise and credit that we, the Minister for Employment, Lindström, could have received last season, did not receive in this Chamber, and in this context, when we are dealing with the Government's annual report last year, I would like to say to Mr Lindström, for my part, thanks and also credit for the work he did last year.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u29	I will give the floor to the representatives of Mr Laiho, Mr Kiuru, Mr Kauuma, Mr Kiljunen and Mr Heinonen, and then we will go back to the list of speakers. That response panel is already closed. Let's really try to stay within this minute limit. I'm gonna start banging a little bit harder.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u30	Mr President! The reform of the social security system fell to the inclusion of the regional government reform. We need a social welfare reform, we need people to get to the doctor and to the care of the elderly. We do not need a provincial government in this country. We already have a home, we have municipalities in Finland, we have cities, and let those who can organise them be given the opportunity to organise them. So we don't need new walls. We can make that change within these walls, and we must now put all our resources into people's services, not administrative structures, in the coming period, and I hope that this will also be remembered at the Regulation House.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u31	Mr President! According to the annual report, 89 per cent of Finns consider Finland a safe country. However, from time to time the feeling of security has been somewhat affected, and one example is that when the police receive about one million assignments, an alarm mission per year, about ten percent of them, or 100,000, are not driven just because police patrols are not available at the moment. The Government Confessor Rinne in her question battery asked about internal security, and each party replied that the number of policemen should be increased. The Greens said that 7850, as well as the city center, including the National Coalition Party, are as many as 11,000. The Left Alliance said that it was at the level of a decade ago, but the SDP only said that sufficient resources were available. Maybe we could get a little more clarity on what the resources are for.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u32	Mr President! Here, among others, representatives of Autto and Heinonen have drawn attention to the importance of continuity in the economy and in the good financial management that the government carried out during the last period. When Sipilä’s government started about four years ago, the employment rate was 68, and now it is nearly 73 per cent. We must continue along this path and reach at least 75% by the end of this period, and that means 70,000 to 900,000 new jobs, which means that the future government must invest in hard work and that it will also be rewarded. I am a little concerned about what has been said by the Regent House, about investing in phenomena-based development and by no means looking at those economic realities, and I am concerned about what it is going to mean in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u35	Mr President! Mr Räsänen's actual speech referred to the budget deficits, and there has also been reference to these negotiations at the Regent House that there would be recklessness in relation to the sustainability gap. In fact, the sustainability gap is a political and economic concept. If we had the same gross tax rate structurally as 15 years ago, there would be EUR 10 billion more money in the state budget than there is now. Secondly, if we are talking about a government deficit, we should also remember that we are constantly transferring on average EUR 8 billion per year to pension funds, which is also part of public finances as social funds. We actually have a surplus of public finances, not a deficit.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u36	And Mr. Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u37	Mr President! Indeed, Mr Vanhanen was a little clamouring about the support we want to give to the work of the assembly that they now insist on taking care of Finland's entrepreneurship. These jobs will be created in small and medium-sized enterprises. Yes, these speeches by Vanhanen represented archaeology, and in them he looked very far into the past, as now the look should be first and foremost in the future when the new government programme is being drawn up. Personally, I warmly hope that the whole parliamentary group in the centre will be able to hold to these ten key issues. It is everything and everything that our good economic development continues. Turn to that good economic development of Juha Sipilä's government should not under any circumstances be done, and here the centre is a lot as a guard. Mr President, I would like to ask the social democrats again: will this 0.7-manufacturing exercise take effect from the beginning of next year, and will you fully compensate the municipalities for this cost, which is the result of this increase in the number of carers?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u40	Now let's go back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u41	Mr President! After all, there were some doubts here at this very beginning: will we be able to get its carership from the beginning of next year to come into force? As a nurse, I want to believe that this is going to happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u48	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u49	Mr President! The Government will submit the Government's annual report to Parliament as a report on the functioning of the Government, on the management of central government finances and on budgetary compliance. The report before us states, among other things, that Finland is one of the leading countries in renewable energy in the European Union. Finland's greenhouse gas emissions continue to fall and in 2017 they were 21 per cent lower than in 1990. This is a real achievement in international comparison. In the world, only a few countries can do this, which means Finland. In the section of the report, Bioeconomy and clean solutions draw attention to the fact that the use of energy peat is said to have increased from the previous year. For energy peat, the trend has long been decreasing. In fact, a small exception was made last year. This was due to exceptionally cold spring winter and the quality problems of the forest chips in use. No change of direction was involved, but that Finns should also be heated in exceptional situations. This shows how important these latitudes are for diverse energy production. In previous speeches, the importance of policy continuity was mentioned. We also need a predictable, stable energy policy in the future, regardless of the coalition. Mr President! It is clear that energy peat will continue to be needed in the 2020s to 2030s. However, its use will be reduced on market terms as a result of emissions trading. Parliament has already decided that coal will cease to be used in 2029. As a result, significant fuel supply risks can be seen as the use of wood fuel increases to replace coal and oil. However, the advantage of the national economy is that wood is primarily directed towards higher processing. For example, Kemi's future bioproject. Maintaining the security of supply and supply of Finnish energy supply requires a certain level of production and use of energy peat in the future. This is also a message to the House of Regulation, where wise women and men reflect on these issues, to the energy debates and orientations in the corridors. This means using domestic energy for employment and reducing dependence on imported energy. It will also be a sensible line in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u50	Mr President! We have the Board of Directors' Annual Report 2018. According to it, more and more people between the ages of 15 and 24 are in education or work. This is an important issue. The mid-term review of the Government in 2017 identified young people outside work and education as one of the priorities — the so-called NEETs — and an action programme was implemented to improve the situation, including measures related to early childhood education, education and hobbies. The proportion of young adults not in employment and education has decreased significantly during the end of the Government term: 15 per cent of the 20-24 year-olds were out of work or study in 2015 and 11.8% at the end of this Government term. That's a significant bill. However, we still have work to do: there are still too many young people receiving income support — too many young people in the sense that these young people should either be working or studying. Increasing employment and training opportunities must continue to be actively pursued. It's not gonna happen by itself. Then I would like to say a few words about the social change. During the previous government term, the reform of social security did not go through because it was too massive a change in relation to the regional government that was in it. Finland needs a social welfare reform, but we must do so on the basis of social conditions, so that we focus on improving basic services, the smooth running of care chains, and we will do so with the current structures in the municipalities and cities. Why create a new governance model because we already have a frame for it? During the Sote transformation, experiments were started, such as service voucher experiments and personal budget experiments, which have produced good results. I personally hope that the results of this experiment can be used and implemented in what has been seen to be working. For example, a personal budget: it is a very good opportunity for people with disabilities, those in need of care to assemble services in a manner that is appropriate to the customer's needs, and then we can also avoid the difficult competitions that are constantly causing concern and grief in special groups. In the past, the quality and efficiency of social and health services have also been improved through digital solutions. The ODA project has been taken forward. A virtual hospital project has been carried out: a virtual hospital environment has been developed in university hospitals, where services can be contacted online. This will certainly be useful, and it will be worth further developing — including the involvement of customers in the design of services, the use of experienced experts. They are definitely things that are worth taking advantage of, because it also reduces costs when we can do services in accordance with people's needs, reducing duplication and extra effort. The strengthening of the well-being and resources of children and families has been done during the last government term. Early support has been invested and good evidence has already been provided that it has been beneficial and has reduced the need for heavier measures. We still have a lot of work to do on child protection. Special attention should be paid to the services of children, disabled children, immigrants. Among other things, the Child Welfare Act was updated at the last metres during the previous government period in order to bring it a little more into line with the present. But we really have a lot to do here. Attention must continue to be paid to early identification of support for children and families. The development of home care for the elderly and the development of informal care has taken place in the past period, but they certainly require further development and reinforcement. The care of the elderly needs more doctors, it needs more nurses. We need them both for home care and for day - to - day service housing, but this must be done in accordance with the needs of those people, not in a patterned number. And finally, I would like to highlight those who are able to work part time and their chances of employment. It is one group, we have many people who are able to work part-time, and disabled people are also part of this group. We can make use of their ability to work in what is available. It brings them quality of life, and they are able to participate in society. Of course, we must continue to confirm this and try to make it even more comprehensive.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u51	Mr President! During the last term of government, education exports had a lot of debate and, at the beginning of 2016, the situation was reached that legislatively made it possible to export education so that tuition fees could be charged to students outside the EU and the EEA. This change sparked a lot of discussion in time, and one of the causes of fear was that it would be like this kind of gate to the beginning of a tuition fee for Finnish students, and at least the meeting assured us that this will not be the case and that is not the case, and of course it will not be the case, but that the study will be made available to everyone. The fact that tuition fees are now possible has brought more than EUR 300 million in export income to Finland, and that is a valuable thing, and now, whatever it is, the important message for the new government is to continue to develop this. In time, when this was done, at least the Left Alliance, the SDP and the Greens were very critical of this, but the results now seem to be on the right track. In his own speech, Mr Juvonen raised the issue of return agreements and the return of persons who are no longer authorised to be in Finland. There are difficulties with some countries, such as Iraq, which simply refuse to take back their own citizens. This has been discussed on many occasions here in the Chamber and in the Administrative and Security Section. Sweden has a return agreement. This will not help at all, because that agreement is not being respected there in the host country. Now the EU and Iraq have a PCA agreement, which hopefully gives some leverage. One way of doing this is to make aid conditional: if the citizens of their own country are not eligible, then there will be no aid from the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u52	Mr President! The annual report of this government was very interesting for a recent MP. There is more to be done about this, but I would like to raise a few points: Page 38 mentions the development of home care for older people and the strengthening of family care for all ages. It is a great thing that such important themes are mentioned in the report, but that is where it will remain. This key project has mainly been reports, studies, agents for change, seminars and ceremonial seminars. As mentioned in the annual report, one objective has been to curb cost growth and it has certainly been successful. People and workers in home care have noticed this: More and more customers, more and more unfit customers who cannot be treated. Hungry old people, lonely old people, even dead old people. As regards informal care, it should be noted that the State fully replaced the two days of leave for all family carers for the municipalities. The problem was that the money was not earmarked and therefore no one would know whether the money went to family care or something else. Where are the measures to make informal care an effective alternative to providing care? Where are the measures that would allow the combination of work and informal care, for example, by creating the possibility of paid temporary care leave in the event of illness? The money invested in various projects, agents and seminars could therefore also have been used to improve legislation. The report deals with social and regional reform in a very interesting way. Hundreds of millions went away, the mess didn't come, the wolf came. The report rightly lists the objectives of the reform, i.e. the objectives which no one has said anything about for years, not to mention the fact that the reform has long been about remembering a customer, a patient, let alone a taxpayer. The end result is known to everyone, and hopefully no such play will be seen this season. In fact, the regions are not in a position to save the war, because then the money will be poured into the establishment and maintenance of the system and the content, i.e. the services of the people, will be less funded. As far as internal security is concerned, it is good to note from the report that property offences account for 46% of the total number of offences and for 8% of crimes against life and health. However, the report does not take into account the fact that the number of sexual offences rose by nearly 15 per cent in 2018. It is a huge rise, and I wonder why this is not taken into account in the report. What is not recognized and identified cannot be corrected. By referring to the phrases ‘Finlandonedes a well-safe country’and ‘Finland is still being tested as a well-safe country’, it does Mr President! Finally, I would like to draw attention to public debt. Even though I have known this to myself, reading the numbers still has to stop. Finland has doubled its debt since 2007. Although debt has not been taken as much as the frameworks have given during the Sipilä Government, an additional EUR 6 billion has been taken over, i.e. EUR 6000 million. It is a long euro to pay for our posterity. If this has been the case in a right-wing or right-wing government, then it would be a terrible thing to say if our country soon had a green-left government. Is the biggest phenomenon in sight that Finland stands in the way of Greece? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u53	Mr President! We will discuss the Board of Directors' Annual Report 2018. During the last parliamentary term, Sipilä and the blue ministers in different shades have been proclaiming the message of how the reforms of the government have produced results. To a large extent, thanks to favourable international economic development, the improved employment situation will be reflected in the profit achieved by government action alone. Employment has improved, it is true, but it is not just because of the previous government. The fact is that many structural reforms were partly tolled. In view of the numerous solutions of the government, many things have been taken forward in progress and the outcome has not been very successful. Even the main goal of the Sipilä government, the war, was not realised. I would like to highlight here, as Mr Rantanen did in his excellent speech, the poor situation of the elderly and the problems of home and family care. These issues have been discussed here in Parliament for years. However, it is still a matter of wallpaper, which means that problems still exist. Promises don't want to be redeemed. Home care for the elderly and informal care were among the top government projects, but the results are thin. The Annual Report highlights the approach to customer and service guidance for older people. Of course, it is a good thing to refine and improve the way things work, but it does not solve the underlying problems. The situation in home care is chaotic. More institutional facilities, support measures are needed. There is not enough investment in the financial livelihood of carers. The fees paid by carers are too low and do not correspond to the demanding or social value of the work. During the last parliamentary term, I drafted a bill in which I proposed a tax exemption for the remuneration of informal care. The Finns also raised the issue in their shadow budget. Well, of course, the representatives of the then government did not support the initiative, unfortunately. Now the new government has the place of proof and the opportunity to correct these shortcomings. There is a need for genuine political will and concern. Mr President! The daily lives of many pensioners are a constant struggle with financial difficulties. It eats up the strength and health. Antti Rinne has promised me the May Day Satas and a lot of other things in the run-up to the election. Let's see what happens. The plight of low-income pensioners is a fact and should be addressed with a rapid timetable. We are talking about a really big issue, because according to the Board of Directors' Annual Report 2018, the number of pensioners will increase by as many as 175,000 during the current decade. This is a huge amount in a country the size of Finland. Pensions lag far behind the rise in living costs. The taxation of pensions should be reduced in order to leave money in food and medicine. For those whose pension leaves little in hand after rent and other compulsory expenses, the ride has been cold. I will be interested to see what guidelines are being drawn up for pensioners in the government negotiations. I say hello to the future government, no matter what its composition: Among other things, Antikainen raised the issue of security, which is really important in a country the size of Finland and in this situation, what is happening in the world. It is also very important to raise and speak up and find solutions to sexual crimes, particularly those committed particularly by immigrants — unfortunately this is the case in reality. There is a great need for more police officers, as the True Finns have suggested. I would also like to highlight the future of domestic food production. It's all blurry right now. Many producers are closing down, or bankruptcy is imminent. At this rate we will be dependent on imported food and at the mercy of the future, and that would be disastrous. These things I put forward are very important and we are now looking forward to how good cooperation we can achieve so that the situation of Finns and Finland’s position in the world and in general will be better in the future than at present. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u54	Mr President! We now have the Board of Directors' Annual Report 2018. Then what would I miss? Well, I might need more of this sort of follow-up — more follow-up, that's what's missing. What do I mean by that? I mean, if there is a project, a project, or any similar thing, then there should be more monitoring of the impact it did on what it actually did. More emphasis should be placed on monitoring effectiveness. I have noticed that it seems that there was a matter of digital, bio or sociale, so there is quite a lot of money being given to such things. And this same thing comes up right there in the municipalities, cities, provinces, but even here in the state, to give money but not to follow what it did, what it got. It would be very important to follow it more. The bigger the project, the more the impact should be monitored. Not so much for small money, but this big money really matters to me. I would like it to be considered and the next report, although more of these have been mentioned. So, what's the tip for this new government? That may be red and green there in our government very much. I would like things to be all right in the care sector, but then also in people's everyday life: bread is needed, food is needed. When rubber wheels bring bread from the middle of Finland here in southern Finland, I hope that the red and green lights will not burn at the same time and that car will have to stop there and leave its load there when it is not allowed to handle everyday matters. It is important that we remain competitive, because it is quite clear that grain produced there, baked bread, is needed right here in Mannerheimintie. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u55	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! There has been a good debate here on the government's annual report for the year that ended, and there has also been quite a lot of comments on the government programme and the future government that is already under discussion, and it is good that we are looking forward to that. This describes in a good way the state of our public finances, and yes, Antti Rinte's first government will have a good starting point from an economic point of view for itself. We have an increase in employment, a significant decline in unemployment and a relatively strong economy. In 2018, our country's gross domestic product grew by 2.3 per cent, and 2018 was the third consecutive year when gross domestic product grew clearly, and this was reflected, among other things, in the fact that the employment situation has improved and unemployment has decreased. As I said earlier and quoted the outgoing Prime Minister Juha Sipilä's words: Antti Rinne, don't screw up this good economic development, you gotta hold on to this. President Urho Kekkonen said in his day that this would be the case if it appeared to be the case. The country now seems to be creating Antti Rinte's first lobbyist government and also a purchased government program. Professor of Communication Anu Kantola from the University of Helsinki said that lobbyikohu is welcome, it has raised this issue in the debate because lobbying has become increasingly important in Finland. According to Kantola, a grey zone is now emerging in Finland where different interest groups try to influence decision-makers and officials. It has to be said that there is nothing wrong with influence, nor with consulting experts from different directions. Mr Lindé's current representative in his previous career The director of HUS was present in many discussions as an expert, and there was nothing wrong with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, it now appears that we are on the agenda for the Board of Directors' Annual Report 2018. I would like to see future speeches on this subject. We will be able to discuss the future government in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u60	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, the other listeners! I would like to be building a safe country, not just any safe country, but the safest country in the world. Security is one of the most important pillars on which the welfare society that cares for all its citizens is built. It must also be borne in mind that safety is health and that from this equation to the end wind will eventually become as important as the purpose of life: happiness. Security comes from all of us, from our attitude, our attitude towards life, our attitude towards fellow people, the society around us, but we also need professionals to make and foster security. Society has become increasingly diverse and complex. How have we responded to this challenge? The number of police officers has steadily decreased, and there are currently 7200 police officers in Finland. What does this mean in practice? 100,000 police missions are not completed a year because there is no one to send. In the investigation, detectives have been drowning under their stories for years, and this has led to a widespread occupational disease from burnout. Young workers are looking for other sectors, and recruitment of new ones becomes more difficult. More serious crimes are transferred directly to suspension immediately after the report has been recorded. There is no resources to investigate mass crime and it directly reflects other areas of crime. For drug-related crime, this means an open spike with endless liquidity. This has led, among other things, to drug crime being blown up in an unprecedented manner on a national scale. There is no place where narcotics crime did not extend its tentacles. Crime on the anonymous Internet networks, which is not limited to drugs alone, is very difficult and time-consuming for the authorities to resolve. Anonymous networks have contributed to and facilitated, for example, the sexual exploitation of children in a significant way. Throughout the world, the perpetrators find each other easily, and the activity has become very organized and organized. Police services in remote areas are virtually no longer available. It has created a significant safety vacuum, and such vacuums tend to fill with antibodies, in this case with crime. Thus, crime has moved to a country where it can grow and develop completely freely without interference from the authorities. This, too, is conducive to increasing the public's sense of insecurity, and all of these seriously undermine citizens' faith and confidence in the rule of law. In the Nordic comparison, there are clearly the lowest number of police officers in Finland, 1.3 per 1000 inhabitants. The second lowest is in Denmark, where the figure is 1.87. In Iceland it is as high as 1.91. In other Nordic countries security challenges have therefore been met and will be met by further increasing the number of police officers. In Iceland next year, the figure will be up to 2.13, which will already bring it alongside Sweden, which is clearly number one on the list. The figure in Finland is a great mystery. According to forecasts, that figure is the only one that falls as a Nordic country, 1.25. There is a huge difference between the other Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u65	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr S.H.I.E.L.D. for his excellent speech. I can sign everything you just said. Finland has an exciting way of prioritising things and money. This Board's Annual Report 2018 states that according to official preliminary data, the payments for development cooperation amounted to a total of EUR 833 million in 2018. It may be very difficult to understand how much that amount is. But I also dug up this budget section from the annexes to the report here, and it is reported, for example, that the entire budget for police action from last year was EUR 783 million. So that's the difference of 50 million. Just think: it is these things that we have been talking about — how we would need more police, how the country has been less secure, how the police are not enough — and 50 million more will be spent on development cooperation. I can't believe this. Then, as we go deeper into this report and compare what countries Finland has to deal with — we are talking about these bilateral development partner countries — I am reading, namely they are not necessarily all known: Vietnam, Myanmar, Nepal, Afghanistan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Ukraine, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Somalia, Kenya, Tanzania, Zambia, Mozambique. Seriously — that is how many countries we have as a partner country. Finland has an exciting, naive idea that we can heal and intervene in every place in the world and work effectively on development cooperation, but this is not how it works. I remember that when I was still a senior citizen a couple of weeks ago, I did feel such a feeling of powerlessness that this kind of madness in this Parliament can be accepted, and now that I am here to talk about these things, I really am taking that opportunity. And let us also talk about the fact that if we really want to make effective development cooperation, then it would be worth choosing only one country, for example, and taking it up, doing a job there for the whole budget and stabilising one country. It is quite impossible to look at the process that is taking place around the world with regard to Finland's development cooperation, because there are indeed so many of these countries. It's a long shot. If we look at Africa, though, when Finland is working on development cooperation in the Middle East and North Africa too, in reality last year, Finland has been working on development cooperation on one continent, practically from north to south, except South Africa: 5.5 million people on a continent as a whole. This doesn't make any sense. At worst, this is our support for corrupt regimes. My own partner is from the last country I mentioned, Mozambique, and his mother works for the UN. It is quite easy to hear the messages from the kind of corruption, the kind of wages, the rewards that are paid for it. You can say that quite a lot of the money we spend on development is being misused. Also, the equipment they buy there, cars, everything, they've been stolen. Well, then, Finland's priorities for development cooperation. Read more about this report from the Board of Directors: ‘According to the broad assessment published in August2018,Finland has played an important role in promoting women’s and girls’ Women’s and girls’ rights are a development policy priority for Finland.” I mean, this is a very hypocritical thing. In the world, the rights of girls and women are a priority for us, but what about Finland in its own country? What has the government done last year to make it safer for girls and women? I must say that it has not been this unsafe for girls and women in this country for a long time to walk on the dark streets at night. I have received a lot of messages about this and this time I will not read more about what I read last time, but they are constantly coming. I really hope that the future government will address these shortcomings, reduce development funds, allocate them to certain countries — one country would be sufficient for Finland — and improve the safety of girls and women in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u66	Mr President! Indeed, the welfare and safety of girls and women must be improved in this country. Of course it must also be improved in developing countries, but there is a lot of work to be done in this sector, both in terms of prevention and in terms of rapid diagnosis, on the one hand, and in terms of investigations into cases of abuse, on the other hand, and in terms of toughening the penalties and also in terms of rapid implementation, on the other. Mr President! Last season we wrestled with the bogs for months, and it was not scored because of the many weaknesses of the performance. However, the Government's report says that services are ‘customer-oriented’. It was one of the top projects. As such a social worker, I would say that the reform of social services should put the emphasis on basic health care in such a way that we have patients, customers, access to research, care and rehabilitation in a timely, flexible manner. Here I would like to point out that although digitalisation has been taken forward and can bring relief and benefits, we must remember that, for example, the telephone must also be used to catch up with a healthcare professional, a member of the staff. It is important not only for the elderly but also for many others. Personal contact and sufficient time in health care to handle matters well is also important. Last season we talked about high-quality hospice care. It was also in the phase, but I would hope that this season the project will be brought to the end in such a way that quality hospice care for all those in need throughout Finland can be achieved. In this context, I would like to raise the issue of hospice care, not only for the elderly, but also for the younger, and also for the small people who are still struggling to live in the mother's womb. The situation may be that the hospice situation is already at hand there, and we wonder whether the birth will take place or whether we will have time to move to other landscapes before that. Sometimes you get into childbirth and the little one still lives, but in these situations patients, mothers and families are too often left alone and without the necessary support. Better care, support and information are also needed for unexpected pregnancy situations. There was talk of a nurse's appointment. Nurseship, minimum of that, must be brought into the law, but not only is it enough, but it must be assessed what is the care of customers, patients, and the situation in the unit, because health care staff and their ability to cope must also be taken care of. The well-being of children and young people has been at hand during the last period and this theme should be continued. Mental health problems and substance abuse problems are one of the rubble that should be tackled with better effectiveness. Mr President! Was it like three minutes from this place?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u67	Here's what I want you to do. Let's listen to Congressman Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u68	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! As is clear from this government report, the previous government was very successful in its key economic policy objectives: employment improved, even improved more than was generally believed, the economy grew, unemployment fell. I personally believe that the new government will also do what it can to ensure that Finland's economy develops favourably. I'm sure the new government will do a lot of good things. They relate, for example, to investment in education, for example, to the reform of family leave, and also to the development of social and health services. The problem with the new government — I fear — will be that when the new government is not prepared to make sufficient decisions to boost employment and when the new government — I am afraid — will not reach the 75% employment rate that is the key objective, this, along with other factors, will lead to many of the good things that the new government will do, to be financed by tax tightening and to be financed by cutting off children, i.e. by speeding up debt. I hope, of course, that this fear is unfounded and that the government will be able to find solutions to promote employment that would be able to finance these important investments far, but at least on the basis of what has been seen so far and what is known about the mechanisms of the government parties, I am concerned that the government will not be able to make solutions that will improve employment sufficiently and will mean achieving that 75% employment rate during this parliamentary term. In this debate, I tried to get a response when Mrs Juvonen spoke about the nurse's composition and before that, as I recall, Mr Viitanen. The government is now being negotiated by parties that, at the end of the last parliamentary term, explicitly promoted the inclusion of the nursing allowance in the Act on Elderly Services and drove the adoption of 0.7 as a nursing allowance in an enhanced round-the-clock service housing. In the light of this, one might imagine that as soon as possible, even at the turn of the year, a change in the law will take effect, which will make the carer’s size statutory and put the carer’s size at the said 0.7 minimum. This is not going to happen. This is not going to happen, even though there are only parties in the government that are very much in favour of it and in the elections advertised that they are doing so. Why won't this happen? Because it is not possible — if nothing else is done — to put 0.7's carers in the law, because that would mean that home care - which actually has more elderly people than 24 hours of enhanced service housing - would be passed on to a huge number of nurses here on the side of institutional care and that the problems of home care, which are already real, would only escalate. On TV, as I remember in the MOT program, the official responsible for home care in Varsinais-Suomen was asked how he felt or felt after the turn of the year, a discussion about how to be a nurse in service housing here would be tuned to 0.7. He replied that it was shocking. It is a pity that no Finnish media asked this question to the relevant experts before the elections. So it will not be the case that at the turn of the year there will be a situation in which the carer’s size will be 0.7. Instead, I believe that this objective will be widely accepted and decided upon, but it can only enter into force gradually, because home care must indeed also be taken into account, the needs for training must be taken into account and the availability of staff must therefore be taken into account. And this model — that one chapter of that hip is not put into the law and that one thinks the matter is in order — is precisely the model of the assembly. And according to the request of the Assembly, an expert group of government experts was set up to assess the whole, not just this management dimension of enhanced service housing, but the whole, home care, family care, training needs, timetables, funding and so on. And this is what will be done. So we will end up with 0.7's carer size, but it will be done as part of a whole that takes account of these other dimensions, and it will also mean the transferred entry into force, because it cannot be put into practice at the turn of the year. So we're going to do what the Coalition Party said. And, of course, as we have already said before the elections, as part of the whole — if we take these other dimensions into account — the inclusion of that 0.7-manufacturing act will be accepted. Finally, the second point, Mr President, about which I would have raised my thoughts in the debate, is this war. As the government report says and everyone knows, it was a lot on the agenda last year. Now the new government and its programme negotiators are a lot of guards. I believe that this will be promoted, but I hope — and here my eyes turn to the demarcations — that regional reform will not be carried out, whether it be called regions, regions or social societies. We really do not need a new administration in this country, new political institutions, new authorities, new elections and new taxes. In other words, I appeal to the Social Democrats and to all the other government negotiators to make war so that it is developed on a modern basis, to make the necessary decisions at national level to promote the emergence of wider shoulders on the municipal base, but to avoid the construction of this new, unnecessary, unnecessary administrative level between municipalities and the state.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u69	Mr President! Here are a few comments on this Board's annual report. There are fine words here about the development and competence of education, about the way it has been reformed. It would have been honest to admit here that, for example, in second degree, it has completely failed. There is also talk of the welfare of children and families. In this way, as a food for the future government, I might think that more industry should be developed in Finland than the fast-running and recovery industries. These have gained a very large foothold here during the last government. Good speeches have been made here, concerns have been expressed about agriculture, and Mr Zyskowicz also made a very good speech at the end of that. This situation in this country is just one that has become apparent from the speeches made by many representatives, that the elderly are concerned, that families with children are concerned, that everyone is concerned. It is for us and this future government to ensure that our people, their interests, their well-being, are taken care of first in this country, and it is only in the second place that people from other parts of the world are taken care of. You can see this in every sector. It is very ugly to say, but the time for confrontation is not over, now it begins, even here on the right, where you put us. We will certainly work to ensure that the Finnish people are well. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u70	Mr President! Indeed, as stated in this government's annual report, our country's employment performance has been positive in recent years and years, but mainly in terms of the good development of the global economy. Unfortunately, unemployment is still too high in Finland, even after the last season, and very many Finns who work are still struggling with the discipline of temporary work, low wages and high living costs, and many small entrepreneurs also face similar problems. This must definitely be improved. In fact, the Finns have put forward a number of measures to improve the situation and make work and enterprise much more profitable. We need, among other things, a gradual reduction in income tax for low and middle-income earners, a reduction in red tape related to SMEs and a reduction in the cost of housing and mobility, so that the net income left in hand is sufficient to live properly. The legislation on land use and construction must also be further streamlined and planning speeded up. The taxation of heating fuels, the price of electricity transmission and property taxation must be moderated. In addition, for example, the transfer tax on housing sales could be abolished at least in situations where a person moves to another place after work. There are many different ways of improving employment. You have to take them. Working is also hampered by expensive mobility, the price of which should not at least be increased by conscious decisions. Mr President! It is possible to close the general government deficit and bring down debt if employment continues to grow. In order to remain competitive in Finland, research and education must also be invested. As a representative Mäenpää referred above to the fact that the Sipilä Government unfortunately did not have much of a good record in the field of education development, rather the opposite. In the future, Finnish young people must be trained especially in areas where more labour is needed in the future. The importance of in-work learning and apprenticeship training will also be emphasised in the future. Mr President! In order for us to succeed in international competition, the RD effort must be raised to 4% of GDP, at the level at which they were at the time of Nokia's gold age. This requires, in particular, an increase in private sector R & D investment. It is possible to encourage private investment in R & D, among other things, through a sound corporate tax policy. Of course there is also a need for a traditional industry,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u71	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here in connection with last year's Government's annual report. In particular, contributions have been made to the positive development of employment. It is a lifeblood for our Finnish well-being and the further development of the welfare society, and I believe that the future government will continue to work with this goal. I want to raise one thing, perhaps even a little bit, from that annual report. Representative Kilpi mentioned that it would be a good goal to make Finland the safest country in the world. Representative Mr Tynkkynen was concerned about the safety of girls and women, to which my statement now also relates. The annual report mentioned that the violence experienced by Finnish women is on the increase and I find it particularly startling. Finland is the second most violent country in the European Union for women, and I do not think this is a very flattering statistical result. The future government should work on this issue, think about and address the issues behind this violence and the phenomena that drive people to use intimate violence in families and homes. Issues have also been raised in this Chamber today, such as unemployment and economic concerns. I could also add substance abuse, various mental health problems and so on. There are many people who have human evil in their lives that leads to violence being used. To this end, as Mrs Elomaa said in her own speech today, care is needed in the future and in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u72	Mr President! In the Government’s annual report ‘Wellness and Health’, its intransigent piece of armaments and good. The promotion of health and well-being should continue this period. I would hope that, now that things are being discussed on a phenomenal basis — or at least they have been started — loneliness could be one of the things to be tackled, prevention and elimination of it, because, in fact, loneliness and the resulting exclusion are a major problem not only among the elderly but also among young people and also young children, and also among those who are working. As a doctor on such a long line, I think that if we could eliminate loneliness or at least significantly reduce it from Finland, many, many problems and nausea would be reduced. Support for informal care should be increased. The situation of carers was somewhat improved during the last period, but the support for informal care should be clearly increased and tax-free – it has also been in the KD's alternative budget. But then I would like to raise here two different groups of patients in terms of health and well-being. There was talk of indoor air problems last season, but there has not yet been enough improvement in their situation. Another group of patients is patients with ME/CFS — myalgic encephalomyelitis, chronic fatigue syndrome — who may even lose total mobility, functional ability, at worst be in a dark room or sleep, be absent for as long as possible, have seizures, and so on. In other countries, this disease is a separate neurological disease, but it is not yet marked as such in Finland. As a result, these patients are often left undiagnosed, without proper treatment, without appropriate studies and without support for relatives. In many cases these patients are also left without adequate financial support, which means that the problem is very diverse, and I would like to see this taken into account in the government negotiations there. There has been talk of security over the last period and an increase in the number of police officers has been called for. Let us hope that this period will take place in concrete terms. We've been talking about agriculture. We need to take better care of agriculture. And last but not least, as Mr Savio has already pointed out, I would also like to raise the issue of research, development and innovation. They have been at the root of Finland's success and internationalism, and they need to be taken care of much better this season.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u73	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! It has been interesting to follow this discussion culture in the hall. I believe that more than half of the speeches have been other than the evaluation of the Government's activity report. And it is nice to hear, of course, that the content of the government programme is well known from the right. I think we're still running out of pencil drawing. But it is positive that the right side strongly believes that we are handling the paint, that we are handling the nursing system, that things are working out for pensioners, that the income gap is narrowing and that the employment development continues to be good. I think it's great that... On the slope this kind of support is given from the right edge. I fully support what Mr Zyskowicz said at the end of his good speech regarding the finalisation of the social and health reform. I think it is largely the model that the future government will then take forward. The implementation of the government's employment objectives has been widely praised in the Chamber, but it must then also open up the overall employment that it includes. There's a lot of that work there. In some areas, as many as 40% of workers — in addition to having a job — are able to adjust their daily allowance, i.e. not to live on the wages they receive from work. There are 10 to 30-hour contracts, there are rehabilitative work activities, there are work placements. In practice, it takes four hours a month to employ it, and the statistics show it. The objective should be — and I am sure that the future government will have — an employment rate of 75%. Because this welfare society can be developed. But it must also be the kind of work that can then plan for the future and build a family and start a family.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u74	Madam President! Perhaps the worst decisions of the previous government, which most affect the future of young people, were this dismantling of vocational education, in fact, in certain respects. This Annual Report of the Board of Directors contains beautiful speeches, for example: ‘The changes implemented encourage training organisations to organise individual skills in the training institution, at the workplace or elsewhere in the learning environment. “ But for me, this is quite libalaba when I have listened to the feedback that has really come from these students at second grade. I am puzzled by the fact that this annual report talks about collecting student feedback. There is such a record here that the results of the student feedback survey make it possible to estimate that progress has been made in implementing the reform in line with the objectives. I wonder what kind of survey has been carried out here by the government, and who has been asked because that feedback in that field has been very different? For example, in that Ratuary, in Oulu, a young man came to discuss the fact that he does not feel that he has even been qualified in vocational education after his education. He had to interrupt at some point, felt that the training did not really correspond to what he had applied for. And I have a feeling that such persons will not then be giving the feedback when asked later. I think people like this are really not going to answer the question. But seriously, there's been school days in the middle of the week when there's no education. In addition, these school days have become very short, and then the contact teaching, practical teaching, has been significantly reduced and would be the most important part of vocational education and training in order to qualify for the future profession. Another young man said that I now got my degree, but let's see how to qualify for work after this. This is a rather disquieting view of the future. In this respect, I believe that the government has been embellishing its actions quite a bit with regard to the annual report. I hope that the future government will invest in this particular education, and that it will also return funding for vocational education and training.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u75	Mr President! During the Government's term of office, a reform of the education system as a whole has been carried out, from early childhood education to the entrance exams of universities and universities and increased cooperation with upper secondary schools and universities. It has only just been launched and will, of course, require monitoring and, in some places, additional resources for vocational training, for example, which has just been mentioned here, for those who need more support and local education. It is worrying that young people's literacy is deteriorating and that learning differences between girls and boys are among the largest in the OECD countries in Finland. In the future, this should certainly be what you really need to worry about, and in further development attention should be paid to how we can improve basic education in our comprehensive school so that these differences are not so great and that we should give young people a better chance to cope with vocational education as well, and that it is not the case, as it seems at present, that everything must be allowed through primary school regardless of quality. I would like more attention to be paid to the quality of education in the future. With regard to resources: target it specifically for the pupils who need it individually. Putting only mechanically more money is not the solution; money must be allocated in the right way. I would like to highlight, for example, the children who require special support, their attention. Whether a child is in a special group or supported, integrated in a class, the resource must be taken care of so that both the child gets adequate support and the whole group has enough teacher time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u76	Madam President! Mr Laiho made a very good speech here. Throughout our education we really need a posture movement right from that elementary school. I find it confusing to say that in Finland, our well-being Finland, there are indeed students, there are children who go to comprehensive school, but, let's say now, graduate from there, they come out without proper reading, arithmetic and writing skills. That's the posture, starting with that. As I have also said to Minister of Education Sanni Grahn-Laasonen last season, I think that Finland should take care and demand that every child learns to read, count and write well, or at least fairly well, and that is what I think we should invest in this season. Many good speeches have been made here, but I actually asked to speak after Mr Eskelinen. When you said here on the right side and in the middle of this much we believe that the government will be able to correct one, two and three things, I would say that for this reason the citizens have voted for us, that we do not only believe but are working hard to correct the shortcomings. The negotiations are now under way, and if the government base is then modified and the government programme comes, then we will not only believe, but we will be supporting and demanding that the economic balance is maintained, but also that the government actually corrects these many shortcomings during this period. Although the government and parliament did a lot of good in the last period, we still have a lot of flaws in our hands and a lot to fix in this country. We hope and in the opposition we are really following and demanding that these shortcomings be rectified, but at the same time in such a way that sustainable development and long-term and well-being, both in terms of people, the environment and the economy, as well as in terms of the hope, will be achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u77	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee. Congressman Rydman will introduce you, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u78	Madam President! The audit activities of the Parliament are carried out by three statutory auditors elected from among its members and by the audit firm chosen by them, currently BDO Oy, responsible for the audit of KHT, JHT Ari Lehto. The audit is carried out in accordance with a separate audit plan drawn up by Parliament, the Finnish Institute for Foreign Affairs and the National Audit Office. The audit has focused on the administration of Parliament and these two agencies, accounting and financial statements from last year. These three audit reports are on the agenda of the plenary session as three separate items, but when I looked at the previous minutes, they have been dealt with in such a way that they have been the subject of a joint presentation and a possible debate, if the President agrees. The introduction has usually been made by the chairman or vice-president of the auditors, but since, as a result of the will expressed by the people in the elections, neither of them currently has the right to speak in this Chamber, this task has now been left to me as the only re-elected member of the auditors. The administrative audit assessed the legality of management activities and decision-making, in particular from the economic point of view. The key areas were compliance with the central government budget law and regulation, the accounting regulations of the Parliament and the financial rules of the agencies, including the procurement law. Administrative audit also includes monitoring the decisions of the agencies' management and their implementation, control of budgetary compliance and evaluation of internal control and risk management. The administrative audit did not raise any particular comments in the audited sites. Secondly, the audit of the accounts and accounts examined the organisation of the accounts of the Parliament and the two agencies, as well as the financial reporting and budgetary monitoring for the accuracy of the accounts and the functioning of internal control. The annual accounts and annual reports shall be drawn up in accordance with Chapter 8 of the budget regulation and the accounting rules of the Parliament or the financial rules of the Agency. The audits of the accounts and financial statements and activity reports of the Parliament, the Finnish Institute for Foreign Affairs and the VTV did not raise any particular comments. However, a few words about these three items of inspection: The mission of the Finnish Institute for Foreign Policy is to create international scientific expertise in its field of research and to provide it to the needs of Finnish political decision-making and public debate as well as to support international scientific research and debate. The Finnish Institute for Foreign Policy is a net budgeted accounting unit and is a member of the parliamentary section in the budget. In 2018, the Agency received EUR 3.4 million in funding from the budget in the form of a two-year carry-over envelope, and the Agency also had an amount of more than EUR 600000 from previous years. Outside the budget, the Institute raised EUR 1 million, with an increase of as much as 38% compared to the previous year. The majority of external funding came from other government agencies and private foundations as project funding. For its part, the National Audit Office is an independent audit and supervisory authority provided for in the Constitution. The Audit Office inspects the government’s financial management and budgetary compliance and supervises fiscal policy rules. In addition, the National Audit Office acts as the guardian of party and election funding. As a result, the total expenditure of VTV has remained unchanged for the past few years by around EUR 15.1 million in the same year that ended. Parliamentary expenditure shows the transition of the renovation to the after-work phase. By ignoring VAT and Parliament's Ombudsman, Parliament's expenditure in 2018 amounted to approximately EUR 93 million, while the corresponding figure in the previous year was approximately EUR 125 million. Thus, Parliament's expenditure per Finn was EUR 17, while one year earlier it was EUR 23. As a conclusion to our audit, we note that the financial statements and annual reports of Parliament and these two agencies have been drawn up in accordance with the relevant provisions and provide accurate and adequate information on the results and financial position of their operations in 2018. We also note that the activity reports and the financial statements were incontrovertible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u79	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee. I think this is where the introduction came from. Very good.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u80	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee. And there's already been an introduction.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u81	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 10 May 2019. The debate will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u82	Madam President! We are dealing with the report of the National Audit Office on the supervision of party funding. There has been a debate here last Friday on the involvement of lobbyists in government negotiations. In the past, the door of the Regent House was so dense that the loudest critics suggested installing a circular door. This time, however, there is no need for installation, because the lobbyists have been put at the very heart of the negotiations, i.e. to write the government programme itself, not in any position, but even in a private, personal interest. This, of course, resulted in a commotion as a result of the publication of the negotiating formations, and attempts have been made to reassure them at the mouth of the party leaders. The Government Programme is not usually informed in the middle of the day, but now the Regent House is told that the lobby register will be taken to the law. Madam President! Unfortunately, this sounds more like crisis communication than a real problem resolution. The Lobby Register is certainly necessary, but until now the same has been done largely in the form of self-monitoring. I cannot escape the idea that this is a whitewashing of the problem itself. However, monitoring lobbying is a much bigger issue in society than seizing the noise that has been caused itself. In order for the register to have any significance, it is necessary for lobbying to have clear, legislative policies that apply to all lobbyists, i.e. those much called for rules. In addition to the register, it would be extremely important for Parliament to start a parliamentary process to establish lobbying rules. A strong backrest may be the proposal of the parliamentary working group chaired by President Risko. This should be prepared by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice. So I ask the groups involved in the government negotiations: are you, in addition to crisis communications, prepared to really reform lobbying in Finland? We know very well that a simple register has little effect on the way things work, and that is why we have to ask: are you prepared for the parliamentary process of making lobbying rules?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u83	Madam President! Finland is therefore such an incredibly good country compared to many other countries that Finland is very transparent compared to the rest of the world. And it is really good that we have this election financial control.fi website, which is maintained by the National Audit Office, and there we are told about election funding, party funding, and now we are dealing specifically with this report by the National Audit Office on this party financial supervision. The National Audit Office made the point that it is very difficult to monitor certain sources of funding for the parties anymore. And it must also be mentioned that during the parliamentary election campaign I ran into this campaign for the Kingdom of the Freedoms, and although I myself am a major policy consumer — I was also a candidate for the election — it was very difficult to see very quickly what this is all about, but I had to go very carefully to look at the website and find out who was the sponsor behind all this. And we know who this funding was for. 7,000 votes in this country were left behind by the fact that there was no red-green government, 7,000 more votes were received by the Social Democrats compared to the Finns, and a red-green government is now being born.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u88	Madam President! We have here this report from the National Audit Office on party funding and election funding in the debate. Last Friday the speeches were interrupted — too bad, there were more people in this Chamber and not only were there more people but also a few heavy speeches were used. I would very much have liked to have referred to Mr Heinonen's speech, which was a very thorough, careful analysis by a hard-working Member of Parliament, above all on electoral funding. His close eye had gone through the union of trade union funding, and he had, of course, considered the important work that trade unions are doing in supporting both the intellectual expert side and the economic candidates who are promoting things that are essential and important to the employees' population. I admired Mr Heinonen's long, thorough speech. The only thing left was a little edge, which I would have liked to have brought up again, because he went through things with such merit. That was when he drew attention to one of the partners in the labour market, the trade unions. I am well aware that trade unions, as a rule, give support to the representatives of left-wing parties, including other parties, but the other side of the labour market, namely employers' organisations, business associations, to an even greater extent. Mr Heinonen is a member of the Coalition Party, and we all know from the statistics that the average electoral budgets of the members of the Assembly are higher and perhaps the largest of all the parliamentary parties compared to at least the Social Democrats and perhaps this so-called 'green left', which Mr Tynkkynen also referred to in his own speech. So these budgets are smaller here on the left side of the hall than on the right side. Representative Heinos would probably have had experience-based information — I would stress: experience-based information — on more extensive electoral funding. If he had opened that angle as carefully as he drew attention to the financing of these trade unions, the speech would have been complete. It would have been very interesting. We would have had an objective picture of where we are going. Now there's a crack. Outside the hall, someone said that that speech even seemed hypocritical. On that point, I will not comment on it, but I said that I then heard such speeches afterwards. So, in this regard, it would be valuable for us to give experiential information about what we personally know, rather than see the speck in the neighbor’s eye. This debate also opened up this issue of lobbying. I do not remember whether Mr Heinonen spoke about it, but in today's debate this issue of lobbying has been strongly raised. I think it is wonderful that the Group of the European People's Party has paid attention to this issue. The great thing is that they have such a strong experience of lobbying’s effectiveness — or inefficiency — rather could be said this way. I have not been in Parliament during the last parliamentary term, but I have followed, among other things, this social debate which took place in the press and elsewhere, and, if I do not misremember the quotes, at least this was discussed in the city, that there were different lobbyists in the preparation of the war, even in the care industry, a direct interest: they were drafting legal texts in the background groups, in the groups that have been drawn up in a very cooperative way. I am well aware that experience has been learned and that the coalition is now firmly opposed to lobbying. We should listen with a sensitive ear, because they have expertise in this matter. And if it is considered that this kind of lobbying is bad — the outcome of the social dialogue said it was very bad — then of course it is worth being concerned about and listening to the understanding, based on the knowledge base of these wise people, experienced people, of the people of the United States, of this harmfulness of lobbying. In that sense, I do now appreciate these speeches by Heinonen and the Assembly with such a clear and clear message, and that is wisdom, because they have such a strong experience of these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u89	Mr President! It is true that there are probably more lobbyists around other parties than other parties. But it's really about this story. There is one point which arises and which has been clarified and tried to resolve in the past: the granting of state aid, for example, to these limited companies operating in the vicinity of parties. And that's the kind of situation that often gets covered up. For example, these same limited companies may organise party seminars or other events. This report also takes account of the fact that this may also have an impact on the point of view of business subsidies and value added tax. In other words, this must be resolved as soon as possible, in what way all funding would be more transparent — and also so that the party does not pass it through public limited companies or others.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u90	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! From the outset, I would like to respond to Mr Kimmo Kiljune, who, in his speech, thanked Mr Heino in particular, but also, as I understand it, other speakers from the Coalition Party for their contributions based on a solid knowledge base. On my side, I would like to thank Mr Kimmo Kilju for his speech on a sound basis. What you said about how the labour market organisations have financed the coalition in the last parliamentary elections, for example, and what you said about lobbyists in connection with the reform of the war, was based on a very, very solid belief. There was, of course, much less information. As far as the support of employers' organisations for candidates for elections is concerned, I think I know something about it, and it must be said that it was extremely difficult for employers' organisations to even sell seminar tickets, not to mention any more substantial electoral support. In other words, your view that employers' organisations had generously supported the coalition and apparently other so-called bourgeois parties' candidates is, in my opinion, a really outdated concept. We can all read in history how substantial sums have been used to support the fight against communism — and so on — and other activities of the bourgeois and social democrats, for example, after the wars, but if you imagine that today the candidates for the coalition — and I think that the candidates for the centre — for example, the election campaign is significantly funded by the social partners and, in this case, by the employer side, then your view is outdated and wrong. As far as social reform and lobbying are concerned, Mr Kiljunen, I too have read in the newspapers even professor-level speeches about how we all know that lobbyists were significantly represented in the war decision-making process, speeches which now equated the presence of lobbyists in the Regent House as government negotiators to the role of lobbyists in the background of the war positions in the coalition. This understanding of professors and representative Kimmo Kiljunen is based on a belief that is not correct. I have attended a number of social meetings, and I must say that I have not noticed that the social lobby or private companies or their organisations have been represented in any social decision-making situation. I have not noticed that, for example, in the reform minister's group, a social lobbyer suddenly appeared at the table to twist the war. As far as these background groups and the various background contacts are concerned, at least we in the assembly and, I believe, the other parties in the government, and in fact the parties already in the opposition, of course we are trying to listen to the various parties, to their views. Whether it is the public sector or the private sector, it was basic health care or special care, of course we heard and listened to different parties. They had expertise and naturally had their own views and interests at stake. Of course, the actual decisions were made by those to whom they belong. Madam President! As far as this lobbying is concerned, it has gained too bad a reputation. Lobbying — whether by established organisations, such as labour market organisations or by these influential communications agencies, which is a more recent phenomenon in Finland — is a completely legitimate activity. That is to say, legitimate legal action in which these bodies seek to bring to the attention of decision-makers their own ideas or the ideas of those they represent. That is legitimate action. But it has to be open and visible, and so now that in the government negotiations this lobby issue became a problem, Prime Minister's candidate Rinne announced as a poll that there will be such a lobby register. Well, it is a pity that the media or representative Rinne did not notice that, even at the beginning of March, all the parliamentary groups under the chairmanship of President Risiko had decided on such a register of lobbyists and had decided that it should be enacted into the law and that the next government should adopt its programme. So what Rinne told us as great news is that it has now been decided in the Regent House that we should do this kind of lobby register and put it into the government program and the law, so it had been decided a few months ago. Anyone who wants to know more about this, then about this one. The President, Mr Risiko, gave a press release on 1 March. As far as this lobby is concerned, I would like to say that I am surprised at what the Greens are doing here. The Greens regard themselves as a more moral and ethical party than all the other parties combined, and the Greens specifically chose themselves as their own government negotiator — not as a background group, but as their own government negotiator — a person who is a shareholder in an influential communications agency and who therefore receives money for the fact that his company, where he is a shareholder, manages to take the views of their customers into decision-making. They chose Elina Moision — who, in my opinion, as far as I know and know, is a very competent and talented person, and so it is not a person, it is not her. It is a matter of the Greens not seeing any conflict of interest in the fact that a member of the lobby is on their behalf negotiating a government programme. Then, when this Elina Moisio withdrew from this assignment, she too announced that she sees no contradiction here. And this morning, or was it yesterday morning, Mr Haavisto announced that this was Elina. Moisio’s solution is entirely his own and he does not see that there has been any marvelous contradiction. Oh, ladies and gentlemen, think of the amount of noise if the coalition had chosen a member of the lobby as its own government negotiator. There would have been some smoke and this hall full of shouting and commotion, when the Greens would have condemned such an immoral procedure, such an unethical procedure, which the Coalition Party succumbed to in choosing their own government negotiator as a lobby partner. Well, of course, we would never have made such a decision, but the Greens did, and then you can't see that there's a problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u91	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz gave an excellent speech on this lobbying issue and also on the idea of lobbying. I also agree with his statement that hearing experts and lobbyists is part of the job and we do it all the time. We also do it in committees, we hear experts. But it is one thing to consult experts or to take them into decision-making. Now in the Regent House, they have been taken with the help of a government negotiator to the tables where decisions are made in which the Finnish Government programme is made. This simply does not make any sense to me, and I do not think that it will fit most of the voters in the head either: when people have voted to decide the affairs of the people, why are those decisions made by lobbyists? The question arises as to whether the MPs themselves do not have sufficient competence and independent decision-making powers to take decisions there without including lobbyists from interest groups and communication offices on the negotiating tables — tables where decisions are important for Finland. The Coalition Party has refused to take any lobbyists on the negotiating tables during the previous government negotiations, and they have not been on the closing tables. Now that there was a commotion about this matter and the Government negotiator Rinne promised to take this to the Government Programme, just as Mr Zyskowicz pointed out, there has already been a common policy under President Risiko's leadership at the beginning of March, that this sort of lobby register will be set up. But the content of the lobby register must also include the fact that lobbyists cannot participate in the decision-making process. Well, this sort of alignment has been made, but in any way it does not seem to affect now then the action at this stage. Although it is now stated that it will be included in the government program, it will not appear in any way in the current course of action. It's very special that they really take them there. I would like to ask: is it to be expected that lobbyists will also be brought to the committees in the future to prepare for the decision-making tables themselves?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u92	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Zyskowicz for helping to change the idea for information. Surely it was a sincere wish that this should be the case. However, I would remind you of the old saying that you can always doubt words but believe deeds, and when you look at this fake list, I would point out Mr Zyskowicz on two points. When I was talking about election funding and election support from interest groups, you mentioned the difficulties that you, the delegates of the Coalition Party, now have in the South Bank to receive election support from employers’ organisations. You did not refer to the Finnish Association of Entrepreneurs in this case, but perhaps more important than talking about interest groups in themselves... In my own speech, or at least I tried to use, I used the wording that the Group of the European People's Party has received a great deal of funding from the employer. This means not only organisations, but also companies, and at this point you have to believe actions, because you also know those formulations and I also have experience of them, and I know how they have supported various political movements in Finland. For one reason or another, the co-operative candidates are the number one favourites in the election funding provided by business in their different forms. They're deeds. They are acts — and Mr Tynkkynen referred to them in his own speech — which involve gigantic electoral campaigns, and it is the people of the United States who are at their strongest in the nomination of candidates when we are talking about the whole of election funding. The second wording to which Mr Zyskowicz drew attention is this lobbying, and now, if I heard correctly what he said about that toilet, I would almost request it in writing. Did you say that Mr Kiljunen has mistakenly listened to professors and mistakenly read in the newspapers about things and that, when drawing up the social media laws, drafting them, the representatives of these care companies were never at a table where the wordings, the text of the law or the recitals of the text of the law were sought? Is this what you said about it? If that is what you said, I would be happy to return to this subject then, if that was the precise wording. So, in this case too, these actions are actually more important than the words we hear about this Parliament's toilet. Instead — and now I sincerely agree with you — when you spoke about lobbying on a general scale, to which Mr Laiho also referred in general terms, I agree. Lobbying is a legitimate activity. It is an activity which has become part of parliamentary, representative democracy, whether it be the European Parliament, the local Parliament or the municipal councils. It is self-evident that the various stakeholders want to influence the debate by giving them the expertise they have for each theme. I myself am, as this lobbying debate has now been negatively featured in this Regent House discussion, an experienced sting in my heart. I am the chairman of the Finnish Senior Movement and have genuinely tried to lobby in the Government Programme negotiations on pension issues in this Government Programme, and I have always felt that I, Kimmo Kiljunen, am guilty of lobbying,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u93	Madam President! We should be proud of the centre, because in our group the whole negotiating group is representatives of the people, and that is how it should be that those who make the decisions there have also earned their credentials. The most important thing in this debate is, of course, that the register of lobbyists should come. Mr Zyskowicz referred to it in March, and that is how it is that the groups have shared a common view on this. The content will certainly be decided on later, but the most important thing is that it is very transparent. I was involved in the formation of the previous government, and it was great that the President-in-Office: The Sipilä then immediately stated that there would be no lobbyists in Smolna. It may have come as a surprise to many, but it was also outlined there. This is, of course, a matter for each group, but the centre is based on the fact that those who negotiate are representatives of the people who have obtained their credentials.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u95	Madam President! I forgot to point out one point in that speech, which is also relevant to this election funding in my opinion, and it relates to these electoral loans that the parties' candidates take for themselves, and they must also be included in the election finance announcement. After all, MPs are quite hard-paid people, and those election loans are then taken to ensure that the coming period is in place. Just about a few weeks ago, when I was not a Member of Parliament myself, I thought very much about the fact that there is such a situation that the gang dares to take out loans, because even if it does not get into Parliament, then this adjustment money has been secured, which will then be able to pay off those election loans. This was an adaptation pension, but for some strange reason the Members of Parliament still managed to maintain that system in some way so that it was converted into an adaptation allowance. When the National Audit Office talks about the fact that it is indeed difficult to monitor all the benefits that parties have in terms of different routes, I would say that this also affects elections and electoral funding, that the MP has such an opportunity to dare to take out larger electoral loans because they can then be paid off with the real adjustment money. Then there's the second thing about last Friday's conversation. I have always been critical of politics, but that debate did make me really critical of this institution. Of course, the campaign rained quite a bit, the Prime Minister's party — but it must be said that the bourgeois party that used these speeches has actually received huge amounts of money itself, once again, from employers' organisations and businesses and so on. When I read the various comments from the MPs here in the press, they seemed very neutral that we were serious about it, but when last Friday followed that debate, here the right and the left, in turn, laughed at the criticism and it seemed as if this was just such a situation that we were jumping from one role to another and criticising others and still taking terrible amounts of that election support. That's it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u96	Madam President! A couple of points on Mr Kiljunen's speech. In your original speech you spoke of the social partners and this employer partner. That is why I wanted to tell you how difficult it was to collect election funding from employers' organisations. At least my own experience was that even buying a seminar ticket seemed to be an election support activity in which they did not want to participate. As far as entrepreneurs are concerned, I think that it is a positive thing that many entrepreneurs have wanted to support the election work of the entrepreneurial-friendly party, that is, the candidates for the coalition. And when my election funding announcement comes to be made and made public, you will see that, for example, I myself have received an impressive election grant from two different entrepreneurs, within the framework of the electoral funding rules, of course. I very much appreciate the fact that entrepreneurs have wanted to appreciate the work that the Coalition Party has done for entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs and have been willing and prepared to support entrepreneurial-friendly candidates. The second question relates to these lobbyists who were involved in the war. I think I said that I have not noticed that at any table where it was decided on social welfare, there were socialist lobbyists present. Instead, I said that it is only natural for us, at least in the Assembly, to listen to and, I believe, listen to the views of the various parties. For example, the opinion of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities — I hope that you, Mr Kiljunen and the other Social Democrats, will listen to them — has also been raised in public, where there is precisely opposition to the construction of a new government between the municipalities and the state, whether it be called the wars, the regions or the provinces. And, of course, representatives of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, but also representatives of this social sector, from the public side, from the private side, from different levels, have been consulted. I read in the paper that HUS CEO Aki Lindén told me if I understood correctly that during the last few months he spent most of his working time lobating social welfare reform in the right direction. In other words, both public-sector and private-sector social welfare experts — or, if you want to say so, private-sector social lobbyists — have been met and listened to. It is a question of the Greens and Social Democrats having, in line with their best traditions, chosen lobbyists directly at the negotiating table to represent themselves in this negotiating situation. Of course, we did nothing like this when we were in the middle of a mess.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u97	Mr President! We will continue this debate with Mr Zyskowicz just because I was at least delighted that I heard from your own personal experience that it has been difficult for employers' organisations to obtain electoral funding in the same way as before. It was a factual road.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u100	Madam President! Perhaps there are a few things that need to be clarified at the end. Mr Kimmo Kiljunen, the Coalition Party is pushing the tax issue for wage and salary earners and pensioners more than the Social Democrats. For example, our threshold conditions, which we offered to Government Confessor Antti Rinte and who then did not qualify for him, were one of our thresholds for reducing the tax burden on employees and pensioners in all income categories, with emphasis on the average income. In other words, as a social democrat — who is known to love taxes — I would not go into competition with the coalition as to which party is more in favour of reducing the tax burden on employees and also on pensioners. I understand that the demars have not set any threshold for reducing taxation on employees and pensioners in all income categories. I have not understood that you would have imposed even a condition that the taxation of employees and pensioners should not increase in any category of income. As far as entrepreneurs are concerned — I spoke, Mr Kiljunen, especially entrepreneurs and their election — so well, by the way, but things are the other way around. It is not the case that entrepreneurs give a lot of electoral support to members of parliament, hopefully, and that is why the representatives of the Coalition Party are pushing for entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs, but it is the case that representatives of the Coalition Party are pushing for entrepreneurship because they know that Finland's economic success, all economic success, is ultimately based on work and entrepreneurship. That is why we are pushing for better conditions for work and entrepreneurship. And when entrepreneurs, hopefully, are very pleased that we are promoting the conditions for entrepreneurship, which is the position of Finland, then, when they are satisfied with the activities of the Coalition Party, they will hopefully support us in the elections so that we can continue our work. So this is the way it goes, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u106	Mr President! In my last speech I must start by wondering that it is interesting that, although I think I am very clear, my speech will be able to be understood a little in that direction by Mr Kimmo Kiljunen. I was talking about the taxation of pensions, Congressman Kimmo Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-05-14-ps-6.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
