ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u2	Congressman Rantanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u3	Mr President! The operating environment of the police has become more challenging at a time when Finland has by far the lowest number of police officers per resident in the Nordic countries and even the lowest in the whole of Europe. Sweden, for example, has two police officers per thousand, while Finland has a ratio of 1.3. Let it be that the Finnish police are highly educated and skilled, there is also a limit. Within four years, the government is increasing the number of police officers by about three hundred, but this is completely inadequate. It should be noted that government decisions will reduce the number of police officers in 2022 even below the current level, to around seven thousand police officers, unless funding is increased. In fact, the Finns of Peru are proposing to strengthen police resources by training and hiring at least a thousand police officers. Minister of the Interior, can you, like the Finns of Peru, respond to the police and citizens' screams and resource to a thousand new police officers?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u4	Your Honor! Thank you, Mr Rantanen, for a good question. This is a common subject, and I am sure every parliamentary party shares the concern that, in recent years, when police resources have been increased, those resource increases have flowed into real estate and ict expenditure and no more police officers have been brought to work in the field. The strong will of the Government Programme is that more and more people in everyday life see and approach the police, always getting help when it is needed. And according to the government program, the number of police officers will be increased to seven and a half thousand. The first steps will be taken next year, when the increase in the budget of the police should be about 80 new man-years. There is also a debate on their targeting. Sexual offences against children, prevention and investigation of sexual offences, among other things, will become an additional effort. And I say again that this is the first step, from now on there will be resource increases every year, and hopefully future governments will continue along this path.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u5	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u6	Mr President! Clearly, then, it is pointless to imagine and dream of a thousand new policemen. Police resources do not meet the requirements of the current operating environment: terrorism, illegal entry and its lax phenomena, drug crime, sexual crime, cyber and cybercrime, urbanisation, exclusion, organised crime and so on. In order to carry out its statutory, growing and complex tasks, the police would need a stable long-term financial framework that should monitor the level of the other Nordic countries. The police are tired — tired of the constant presence of the workload and the increasing threats associated with the work, because they are too few. As the police in the periphery just said in the paper, the government should be doing a miracle that they can do this. In the light of the facts I have mentioned, Mr Government, is it still the case that you prefer to spend more money on development aid or climate posing than on safeguarding police work and safety at work?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u7	Your Honor! Thank you, Mr Rantanen, for your question. According to the Police College of Applied Sciences, the current levels of education lead to a career in which, at the moment, the number of police officers goes this way, as a result of the actions of previous governments,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u8	President! Just as Mr Rantanen said, the environment in which the police operate is becoming more and more challenging. One factor is the rapidly growing, poorly integrated immigrant population with its mild phenomena. The police have to prioritize their activities. The crime resolution rate is falling, the threshold for people to report crimes is rising. Sweden is a frightening indication of what will happen when the undermanned police are left to wrestle with impossible problems. Crimes are not solved, the attractiveness of the police profession has collapsed, power in the suburbs has been handed over to gangs. Minister Ohio, Finland has faithfully repeated all the mistakes made by Sweden in the area of immigration and internal security. Wishful thinking is not enough. What are you going to do to reverse this worrying development?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u9	Your Honor! Thank you, Mr Halla-aho, for your question. We're going to start the internal security briefing at these moments. The survey of the Monitoring Group has, hopefully, come to Parliament these days, and in that report work we will be going through, among other things, these resource issues over the next year from all the administrative branches of the internal affairs sector. At the same time, we are going through how, for example, citizens' sense of security has developed, in which direction it should be developed. In line with the wishes of the Administrative Committee last year, we are doing, among other things, this work. On the one hand, of course, it is a question of what we are also doing together at European level. We will continue to cooperate with Europol. We are also constantly sharing information, including on organised crime, within the framework of Interpol, and we are also fighting it by international means. No Member State can act on its own.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u10	Mr President! Both in the police and, for example, in the border, the resource problem stems from it, as the Minister also pointed out, that old indecent premises and uncontrolled growth in ict costs are taking so much money that it does not remain in staff and activities. It is estimated that the police alone currently have more than 20 targets with indoor air problems. The fact that many police tasks are no longer successfully carried out means that the internal security of our country is under threat. The urgency, loadiness, failure to perform tasks, indoor air challenges and so on are already reflected in the deterioration of the well-being of the personnel. The basic institution of society is fracturing. I ask the Prime Minister: do you understand that the government and the Finnish State can have no more important task than to guarantee the safety of their own citizens?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u11	Mr President! I understand that the role of the Finnish Government is to ensure that it is good and safe to live in Finland for all people living here. In practice, this means that we must have sufficient resources both to combat exclusion in Finnish society and then to provide security authorities with sufficient resources both for the protection of the external borders and here within Finland. Yes, the government understands this clearly, and that is why, when you read through the Government Programme, we are investing in both the prevention of exclusion in a significant way and the development of the security of Finnish society at the external borders and internally in connection with police activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u12	Mr President! Safety is a basic need comparable to food and heat for citizens and is strongly maintained by the police in this country. Before the elections, all parties, including the current government parties, promised that 7850 police officers would be reached in this country, and that means 650 more policemen in this parliamentary term. However, the Government Programme states that only 300 new police posts are being sought here. Let me ask you something. Is your objective 7,500 police officers or 300 new police posts? And when some 150 new police officers graduate at the starting post of the Police School in addition to retired, what happens in two years' time if you add 300 police officers? Are you counting the starting positions of the Police School or are the police again going to be out of work? Is this another promise that has been betrayed?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u13	Your Honor! Thank you, Mr Jokinen, and also Mr Purra, for the question. I'm going to answer both of you right now. These government commitments will enable us to reach seven and a half thousand and possibly over it, at these levels of education. The fact that no person in this country is unemployed also has much to do with the government. Increasing the employment rate widely is our common goal and, of course, as far as the police are concerned, we are also trying to ensure that no police force in this country becomes unemployed. I will return to Mr Purra's question, an important question about the premises. This will also reflect on the extent to which the various security authorities — rescue, border, police — may in some places be able to distribute facilities in order to make them as appropriate, healthy and safe as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u14	Mr President! In the correct allocation of police resources, the division of police work also plays an important role. I would have liked to ask the Minister whether the Ministry of the Interior is now planning to find out whether police guards could be transferred to police work, for example, the transport of intoxicated persons or the recording of reports of offences or the taking of those arrested. Today the police are heavily burdened, among other things, by the transport of intoxicated persons, and it is of course clear that these are tasks that cannot be outsourced to the private security sector, but it would be possible to make arrangements within the police. Can this division of tasks be clarified — could police guards also take up some of these tasks that are currently burdening the police?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u15	Your Honor! Thank you, Mr Essayah, for your question. This is also a very strong issue at operational level, and I would very much like to hear the views of the police field and the leadership on this issue. I think that, of course, the police are already working very closely together with the various authorities. Whether the police can join forces with social workers, youth workers to an increasing extent — that is what we need in this society. The boundaries must be broken in every sector in order to make better progress in these matters. I cannot comment on this question from the hip, but we can return to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u16	Mr President! The police field has become more challenging and dangerous. The events of recent days have shown that the police must be prepared for demonstrations with force control equipment, which is used in Finland with very great consideration. Minister Ohio, last Sunday you stated on Twitter: ‘The police mission is to safeguard the fundamental rights of demonstrators like bystanders. Trust in the police must be kept strong so that a sense of security can grow. As regards the demonstrations in recent days, I have asked the police for clarification.” In the final sentence, you are not only questioning the police's ability and functioning to maintain public order, but, on the contrary, you are helping to strengthen attitudes towards the police. My concern for this must be taken seriously. In Finnish, the police should not be seen as a opponent but as a guarantor of common security. Mr President! I would like to ask Minister Ohio: do you see that the police could have carried out their duties by some other means in the event of the protestors refusing to follow the instructions and orders of the police and resisting the police? And why, as Minister of the Interior on Twitter, you question police activity, which is likely to increase distrust of public order and security
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u17	Your Honor! Thank you, Mrs Packalén, for the question. This is about, as I have said, the fact that the police are certainly the most trusted in this society. That trust is something that I and this government want very much to hold on to. And when there is a debate about how things have been done, it is good that the police are also openly telling about it. It is quite normal for the Minister to ask for clarifications from his own administration. I can tell you: ‘Minister responsible for the activities of its administration. He has all the rights to demand and to be informed about how he or she is to operate in his administrative field.’ [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u18	Now both the question and the answer went well over a minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u19	Mr President! Firstly, it is clear that the security situation has deteriorated. This is because there are many new threats both from the world and at home — organised crime, cybercrime — and the conclusion has been that there is a broad consensus in Finland about wanting more policemen and women.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u22	Your Honor! Thank you, Mr Orpo, for your question. The number of police training remains at 400. As I said earlier, the Police College of Applied Sciences has said that this brings us to an uplifting career in the number of police officers, and of course the safety of the police is an absolutely central issue. That is why, even before these things, which you referred to earlier — before my request for clarification and this debate in the last week — we have discussed with the police administration that we will also organise a joint debate with representatives of the media on the safety of the police. It is true how, in the case of Porvoo, we heard an example when, among other things, many researchers pointed out that police violence has even doubled in recent years. This is a very worrying trend, and that is why the government intervenes and really takes care of the safety of the police.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u23	Mr President! Mr Orpo, this aspect of safety at work is also a very important issue for this whole, and it comes through education. As Minister Ohio said in connection with education, the number of police officers will continue to rise, and hopefully it will be higher than the 7500 that currently exists as a figure. I would like to say that after the Porvoo incident, I had a discussion with Chief Police Officer Kolehmaa about the equipment relating to police safety and the way in which it operates, because it was quite a difficult situation from the point of view of police safety. Commissioner Kolehmainen said that we have a very good model of police safety, that we currently have equipment in place for those patrols that go on the ground, that there are enough security equipment at the moment, and that action on training has worked in such a way that the police know what is being done in the situation. That even such unexpected situations, as Porvoo came forward, have been prepared.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u24	Mr President! I am very pleased that this government will significantly increase the resources of the police, but I am surprised at the way in which the Finns and the Coalition Party would implement this increase in the thousand police officers, because simply those policemen are not unemployed and the police are not able to train this pace when the numbers of training are already in the pit. In many Finnish municipalities, we have very long response times for the police, and in my municipality of residence, Enontekio, the police response times are already measured in hours. I would have asked the Minister: what means do we have to increase the visibility of the police in a limited number of areas? In what way will these response times be moderated? What means does the government program provide for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u25	Your Honor! Thank you, Mr Kärnä, for your question. We have therefore discussed this with the Administrative Committees, and by May a report from the response working group will be prepared on how the police in the field, the administration is currently experiencing resources, their adequacy and how the response times currently serve. This government wants to build a safe Finland for everyone, no matter where the person lives, no matter where the person comes from. In that work we also need all of you, and this internal security report work, which I mentioned, certainly also includes this question of response time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u26	Mr President! There are few things on which this Chamber is unanimous, but, fortunately, increasing the number of policemen is one of them. That is why it is great that the government is now increasing the number of police officers. It is worth remembering, however, that internal security and the way citizens experience their own circumstances affect many other things than the number of policemen. In Sweden, there was a considerable increase in the number of police officers, but the feeling of security did not increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u27	Your Honor! Thank you, Mr Järvinen, for a good question. After all, reports from the Ministry of the Interior have for years recognised the fact that exclusion is the greatest threat to internal security in this country, and even on those grounds have been built into the government programme of recordings which, from early childhood education onwards, invest in every level of education. As an example of social work, the most vulnerable child welfare customers are taken into account, because it is known that the often accumulated disadvantage also drives more people into crime, either as victims or as perpetrators. That is why the issue of exclusion and the fact that inequalities are broken in many ways in this country is very important for the peace of society as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u28	Mr President! At this stage, it should be noted that safety at work is achieved for the police by increasing the number of other police officers who are protecting a colleague. Now, with your frame, the number of police officers will fall in 22 C.E. I did not get an answer to this: why did I do so, because it will inevitably fall off with this spending limits decision if no money was added? It is good to point out at this point that in previous years the Administrative Committee has repeatedly proposed and proposed this 7850 police officers. Are you going to strive for this same chapter that would be what is needed? True, the True Finns would increase them even more, or a thousand to education and a thousand to work. We have to raise this matter of tweeting by Minister Ohio again. Is it true that you don't trust the police?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u29	Your Honor! Thank you, Mr Rantanen. I have always said that there is a great deal of trust in the police in this country, and I am one of those citizens. [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u30	Next question, Congressman Orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u31	Mr President! Italy, Spain, Portugal, France, Belgium. These are countries that have not been in the headlines in recent years because of particularly good economic performance. In addition to these countries, Finland now received a request from the European Commission for clarification of its budget and financial management for next year. The EU recommended that Finland curb expenditure growth, but this government is making more expenditure, sticking to these expenditures
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u32	Minister of Finance Lintilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u36	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u37	Mr President! A very comprehensive answer from Minister Lintilä, but I would like to say that much more about this budget in general: I have explained to you on several occasions, Mr Orpo, about the policy of economic policy pursued by this government. This government's policy is based on the fact that 90,000 jobs will be created during this parliamentary term. Of the 90,000 jobs created by the Ministry of Finance’s basic career, 30,000 will be created if no change in the economic cycle is made, and we will respond to them in these circumstances, as we did in June with an investment package of EUR 600 million, which will create 7500 more jobs. In addition to this 30,000 basic jobs, Mr Orpo, this government is taking decisive action to build 60,000 jobs during this parliamentary term. Of these 60,000, 30,000 will be the subject of decision-making next August. You can be convinced, Mr Orpo, as I have told you many times that they will be
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u39	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u40	Mr President! The clock's ticking, but there's no sign of those employment measures. We have also read in the news today, unfortunately, how Nokia warns of its results, how Nordea has told us that it will start negotiations. These news is coming now, and when we look around we see how the economy is around us, our important export countries, in which the economy is falling. We now need those employment measures, and we have presented you with our own list. At least take something out of them, someone you dare to take through. They are concrete new employment measures, and they must be put on top of your own. We need action now. We can't afford to wait till next spring, and why? Because it threatens Finnish well-being — that's what you're worried about — Finnish equal society, health centre services or even that additional amount of policemen's promised. Only through its high level of employment, Prime Minister Rinne, will that be possible. Clock's ticking. What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u41	Mr President! I have just told you, Mr Orpo, about the measures that are in preparation. Our aim is to prepare things in such a way that we do not rush them into decision-making when they are prepared, so that we also know the impact assessments. You can rest assured that this will happen. But, Mr Orpo, there is a clear difference between us and your policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u43	Mr President! Prime Minister Rinne, please put down the Minutes of this Parliament or any other evidence that would prove your false claim that we would like to take the path of surgery in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u47	Mr President! The Government Programme states: ‘The combined effect of these andother measures shall be sought at least Half of the above measures will be ready by the August 2020 budget debate. If this is not the case, the budget panel shall assess the expenditure increases previously decided on in relation to the technical budgetary plan.’; This means both permanent expenditure increases, EUR 1.2 billion, of which EUR 100 million have not been used, and it means one-off increases, which have been decided to spend EUR 750 million next year. These will be assessed if this does not happen — but when this happens, there is no need to speculate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u48	Honorable Speaker! Indeed, now is the time to look the facts in the eye. The situation in Finland's economy and, above all, the situation in local government finances is worrying. At the moment, the state is in debt 5.4 million a day, 225,000 an hour. In addition, we use dividends and the proceeds from the sale of these shares to cover the state budget for 6 million dollars a day. And now that I carefully looked at these questions and answers from the Commission, they did indeed say that the debt ratio will not rise because of the sale of state property. So this is really the government line? You want to sell state-owned assets so that these debt targets of the EU Commission can be met?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u50	Mr President! In other words, the Commission's questionnaire specifically referred to the preventive part of the Stability and Growth Pact, not to the level of indebtedness, and in this reply we also state that this budget for next year will have one-off features. At present, there is a situation that the Commission should have reacted within two weeks if there had been a very exceptional situation, that Finland would have been required, for example, to make some changes to the budget/new budget. This has actually happened once, and it was Italy, to whom this happened. For us, this deadline has already expired. In other words, this is not a question of such a serious issue, perhaps, but rather of the Commission's desire to know more about how we are going to stay here within the Stability Pact.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u51	Mr President! Here, Mr Lintilä, the Minister for Finance, referred to this request for clarification from the EU, in fact, with a shrug, as if it had nothing to do with it. The Minister left out the fact that the previous government started with a completely different situation. The government took nearly EUR 6 billion in debt, unemployment was high. At the time, the previous government, in which we were working with the people in the centre, took important employment measures, put the economy in order. 140,000 people were able to work, debt-taking decreased significantly. By continuing along this same path, Mr President, you could have put this country's economy in order, but instead you have opted for debt, the payment of electoral promises, and still, Mr President-in-Office, the Ministry of Finance has not been able to assess the positive impact of your employment policies on anyone, that is to say, on anyone, so, Mr Government, I ask you: why do you leave these employment measures?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u52	Mr President! I have answered this today several times, and I will now simplify the answer, and I will say that those measures are in preparation and, before they are prepared, they will be a little difficult to assess. That is why at the moment the Ministry of Finance, which will evaluate them, has not assessed them, a representative. It is important to prepare matters carefully so that their effects are known when those decisions are made, and then the end result is already seen as a result of it, the goal that the government has set for them. The aim of this government is that the everyday life of ordinary people should not be ruined but that it should be better tomorrow than today. It is a very central political message for this government, which is aimed at everything that has been recorded and taken forward in the Government Programme, in different sectors of life, in different sectors of society.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u54	Mr President! The question of the orphan started with a letter asking the European Commission about the measures taken by the current government. In several years, the Commission has addressed the situation in Finland in its final reports and called for rapid and effective reform of social and health services and its sustainable financing. I will not ask who fucked up with their market model or narrow preparations for social welfare reform last season,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u58	Mr President! For the first time in this Chamber, we are not talking about the reform of social welfare and health care, but hopefully for the last time after this reign. The steps that have been decided to take in this reform are in such a way that this reform will eventually reach its end. For the first time in years, social and health care reform is to be carried out from the point of view of social welfare and health care. Since no municipal reform is now being carried out under the guise of the wars, nor is there a market opening or a major reform, insofar as I believe that these steps that are about to be taken are such that the way in which the country's parliament will also be commended will be the way in which it is being done.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u61	Let us try to stick to the original theme of the question.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u62	Mr President! An EU witch is a serious matter. It seems that even in Europe there is little confidence in the Prime Minister's actions. In fact, the Financial Times stated that the only consensus achieved is that almost all governments hate Finland’s plans around that budget plan. You might ask if we are already getting smaller.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u65	The question not only goes beyond time but also did not remain on the original subject, but nevertheless Minister Kiuru answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u66	Mr President! This is now a good place for the questioner to show whether, in social and health care, things are being put in order to ensure that the costs are:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u69	Mr President! According to a study in the United States, political memory is about three months, and I can see from this study that Mr Orpo no longer remembers that he was Minister of Finance just over four months ago. At the moment, when he criticises the economic situation, he criticises the budget which he himself has presented as Minister of Finance and for which he has voted in this Chamber. Of course, Mr Heinonen went even further, who has already confused the EU and Finland's budgets. [Department :Nominal! — A commotion]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u70	Mr President! The starting point for this government is that people who are already in a difficult situation are not disciplined. The starting point for this government is to find ways to support people in working life, such as through services, through pay subsidies. We want to ensure that those people who are able to work part-time are included in the working life of the people who are required to work in this society with their own contributions. This is the political line of this government. The political line of this government — contrary to what the previous government assembly has intended — is not to ensure that expenditure is cut in order to balance public finances without considering how it affects the everyday lives of ordinary people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u71	Mr President! We in this Chamber have been and citizens and experts outside have been concerned for a long time about how the government is able to manage the Finnish economy and how you react to the deteriorating situation. This is already a matter of concern in Europe. I think this is a serious matter and you should take the view that you need to evaluate it in your line of action. Minister Lintilä is nodding just right. Evaluate this line. Do not increase those expenditures in a forward-looking way until there is any information on income.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u72	Mr President! The representative, Orpo, quickly combined the concern about the budget economy with a significant increase in the cost of the budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u75	Next question, Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u76	Mr President! During the last period, the student grant was cut by nearly EUR 90 per month, and at its current level, the student grant is only approximately EUR 250. While at the same time the student support system was reformed and increased the ceiling on the state guarantee for student loans, the small amount of student funding in practice does, however, mean that students will have to work more and more, which will also extend study periods. Well, before the election, the Left Alliance promised an increase of EUR 100 for student money, an increase of EUR 86 for the SDP, a green increase of EUR 83 for the RKP and EUR 86 for the RKP. Now we see that there is going to be an increase of just over EUR 2 next year,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u77	Mr President! Student allowance is social security for a low-income student, no pay or reward for credits. Under the current system, everyone's social security includes a means test and, in the case of study aid, a means test is carried out at the income limits. We have an increase in the number of guardians and a small increase in the amount of student support anyway, but we really cannot achieve the goals that were before, so we have to think about this too, but of course it is good to look at it. There has been a great deal of concern in previous discussions about how this is generally financed and where money is made available to the Treasury, and that would be one item of expenditure. We hope that the opposition will also support us.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u78	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u79	Mr President! Of course, this EUR 2 increase in student money is a small step in the right direction, but it is very far from these EUR 100 promises. Then this guardian raise, indeed, was achieved in the last period. There is now going to be an increase of EUR 25 as promised by the government, which is a good thing, but it is very small. In view of the fact that the reduced birth rate is linked to the fact that the first child is being delayed specifically by studying families and persons, it would be very important to have a strong influence on the position of these particular student families now. The Christian Democratic Group of the European Parliament has just published an alternative budget in which we propose that this increase in guardianship be raised to EUR 150, and it will only add EUR 5 million to the state budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u80	Mr President! Of course, trust in the future is essential for the birth rate. As we have seen from many studies, there is a great deal of other people to inherit in the promotion of the birth rate and in the number of children, in the way that people make decisions about children or, in general, when happiness comes to people that they can have children. Our government is already raising the income of families who are studying in the custody system, and we are on the right track. And as I said, the indices will also be returned, which means that it will also be a total increase in student income.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u82	At the end of the day, I am trying to get a question and an answer from several groups. — Mr Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u83	Mr President! In the last Question Time, I asked Minister Ohio what he was going to do when the Finnish Immigration Service laid off people. I didn't get a good answer to that. It was just read in the papers that the Finnish Immigration Service is laying off, and then it is called for these times to be shortened. How do these two get together?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u84	Your Honor! Thank you, Mr Harkilo, for your question. Last time, we really started this conversation. I want to correct the suspicions that may be moving. Unfortunately, the budget that the previous government has made for this year has not been sufficient to cover the costs that are currently being incurred.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u87	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u88	Mr President! After an excellent debate on economic policy, I shall move on to everyday matters. Basic health care must be the basis of our health system and, more generally, basic services must be the basis of the entire social and health care system. At the moment, even half of the population cannot be admitted to a health centre doctor's office within a week. Even in 2000, the situation was different. At that time, 80 per cent of Finns received a reception time in a week, even in medically unsolicited problems. The queues and waiting times for the reception are long, doctors have not completed their posts and health clinic doctors have reported an increase in their workload. What plans and measures does the government have to take to remedy the current situation as a matter of urgency?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u89	Mr President! Thank you for the question. It shows that there are many things that need to be improved in Finland. This is one of the most cost-effective projects if Finns are better able to get to a doctor in the future. Raising primary health care as a central focus is one of the biggest things if we also want to keep in mind the control of the cost of the nation. It is important that we recognise that, even in the current service structure, some of us are able to manage people, that is to say, the first meeting will take place within less than a week, but we must also recognise that this is not the case everywhere. Mr Lindén said very well that it is now time to make major changes here. It requires the development of division of labour. It requires that we genuinely increase medical resources in the field, but also multiprofessional cooperation. This calls for a major change in the way things work. It requires a variety of working methods, a change of focus on prevention, but also on the emphasis on basic health care.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u90	Representative Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u91	Mr President! Happy U.N. Day! The UN is the most important international cooperation organisation in which Finland is involved. Messages and signals from the world have been worrying: crises and refugees are increasing, and multilateral cooperation is fragile in a situation where there should be and need to be much more. International agreements and adherence to them are in the interest of Finland and the international order as a whole. Finland’s UN strategy dates back to 2013. It urgently requires updating to meet the challenges of time. The Centre proposes that the strategy be updated and strongly involved in enterprises and non-governmental organisations in addition to state administration. The objective should be a clear road map for Finland to become a member of the UN Human Rights Council in 22 and later in the decade.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u92	First of all, thank you to Mr Savola for a good question, and very good UN Day also on behalf of the entire government. The very good question of how we could strengthen the role of the UN and the multilateral world order in a situation where the superpowers are pulling in different directions and the UN is partially paralysed in the resolution of international conflicts. On the other hand, the UN is doing extremely important work today in areas such as the environment, the fight against climate change and, above all, humanitarian aid in crisis and conflict areas in the world, and of course we are also involved in peacekeeping and crisis management work. After all, the government now has not only a very good government programme, in which the UN plays a very central role, but also a report on foreign and security policy, in which Parliament is strongly involved. There is a human rights policy report coming up, there is an Africa strategy coming up. Of course, the role of the UN is very much taken into account in all of these. If there is a need to put together such a separate and updated UN strategy, it could be a good tool in this campaign of the Finnish Human Rights Council, for example,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u93	Next question, Congressman Petelius.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u94	Mr President! Mankind faces the greatest challenges of its history: how to stop climate change and the sixth wave of extinction. In response to this challenge, the government has set ambitious targets for carbon neutrality and halting the loss of species. This is great, but there is still a lot of work to be done to achieve the objectives. The government has a big role to play here, and the scope for influence is not limited to the adoption of laws. The impact must extend to all state activities, including state-owned enterprises. It is companies that have a major role to play in climate matters, and I think that state-owned companies should set an example here. I would like to ask Minister Paatero: how can the climate and environmental aspects be taken into account when reforming the state's corporate governance policies?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u95	Mr President! Influencing climate change is a shared goal of the government as a whole, and we have set quite ambitious targets, as Mr Petelius said. At the same time, we are also committed at EU level to these objectives of our own. Once they have been agreed in this government and accepted by Parliament, of course, all activities go in the same direction. Of course, the way in which state-owned companies can be affected here is that we require all our state-owned companies, in their own field of activity, to go through different means and report them to us owners. Of course, not all companies have the same means, because we have quite a few dozen companies. But for everyone, this is also written in our country's ownership policy decision, which will then be adopted in the Committee on Economic Policy. That's where they'll be recorded.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u96	Next question, Congressman Kautto.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u97	Mr President! For several months now, we have been following in public the collective bargaining practices of the state-owned Posti. Posti plans to replace the current collective agreement with a worse one for employees. This would reduce wages and working conditions for already low-paid workers. Understandably, workers are prepared to fight for their rights by the legal and only means they have if there is no agreement in the negotiations. Now information has come to light that Posti is preparing for the disruptions caused by the strike by exceptional arrangements. The possible plans of state-owned companies to use temporary agency labour and other criminal labour to break the strike must be condemned. Such action constitutes a serious breach of the right of workers to strike under constitutional and international agreements. I would like to ask: how does the government feel about the state-owned company’s intention to break down legitimate industrial action?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u98	Mr President! First of all, of course, we must hope that, when the collective agreements are negotiated by the national mediator at the moment, agreement will be reached and both sides will find a common solution and that the threat of strike, which is, of course, a right and which has now been announced and to which aid for collective action has yet to be sought from other unions this week, will not have to be used. That is the first objective, and I hope that this will also happen. If you have to go on the PAU side, I have already sent a message to the Post that we do not accept the criminal labour force.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u99	Last question, Congressman Ollikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u100	Mr President, ärade talman! Så arv på FN-dagen är det viktigt att fästa uppmärksamhet vid hållbar utveckling. Skydet av Östersjön är en viktig prioritet i regeringsprogrammet, och åtgärder som förbättrar milön och klimat i Östersjöregionen ska sturkas under denna valperiod. Vi vet att det finns flera orsaker till Östersjöns dåliga tilstånd. När det gäller nedskräpningen av havet och våra stränder spelavfallet en väsentlig roll i problemet. Utredningar visar att av avfallet vid havsstränderna är cirka 80 percent plast. Det är ett problemm som brode gå att undvika. Hur ska vi åtgärda problemmen med platavfallet?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u101	Mr President! Thank you for this important question. Just as you said, marine litter and, above all, plastic waste has been awakened around the world. Finland has also been very active in this; already during the last government term a plastic road map was prepared, which looked for ways to reduce the use of plastic, how we can replace plastic and how we can recycle plastics better. These are all measures that also help to prevent plastic from ending up in the oceans littering. We are also very active internationally in this area of marine plastic waste, both in the joint body of HELCOM, the countries around the Baltic Sea, and also in the G20, where we are invited — precisely because of the circular economy and the prevention of this plastic litter — and now the Nordic countries are working together on such studies as what concrete steps we can take to reduce the plastic litter of the seas,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u102	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Mrs MmVM 1/2019 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u103	Mr President! We are dealing with a proposal from the Government to the Parliament as a plant health law and a law amending Article 1 of the Law on the enforcement of the fine. The proposal proposes to introduce a new plant health law. It would complement European Union regulations on protective measures against pests and official controls and other official measures. The current law on the protection of plant health would be repealed. The proposed law would provide for the competent authorities and their tasks and penalties for infringements. [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u106	Mr President! We Finns are very lucky at it, perhaps more fortunate than we can often imagine, how clean soil, clean waters and the cleanest air in the world make it possible for us, and while we still have the variety of seasons to keep away many pests, that we have the best plant health situation, and then, on the other hand, when we don't have to use protective substances to the extent where else the plants are really clean, and when we eat good domestic food, we don't get the pesticide residue from our food that, unfortunately, people in many other countries get from their food. So we're really lucky to just understand how to enjoy good domestic food. In addition, the long, bright days of the summer, which we have in our own short growing season, ensure that we also have very tasty food plants, berries and fruit. So we're lucky in this respect. It is, of course, important that we have the Parliament to ensure that the legislation relating to plant health is also in order. I would therefore like to thank the whole committee and the chairman of the committee, Mr Kalmar, for his good work. This led to the adoption of a new law in this respect by a good consensus across the Government-Opposition boundary. In particular, this legislation may have to take into account the fact that, as we have read in recent days' news reports on the insurance of crop damage, these are not quite simple in a small market, such as in Finland. In that sense, it is important that Parliament is now closely monitoring the impact of this legislation. All in all, Mr President, I am sure we can accept the content of this law with pleasure, and it is necessary that that statement from the committee should also be adopted in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u107	Mr President! In that presentation of the report, Mr Autto and, in fact, the chairman of the committee, Mr Kalmari, pointed out what I myself would like to focus on, and to say that the committee did specifically reflect on this problem, which, for example, has become a reality in terms of crop damage. The creation of insurance and so that the market is interested in it is certainly still in the long term, so to speak, that we in such a small market as Finland could create an insurance system that would be impeccable and that is why it is particularly good that the committee had this examination. By the end of 21 C.E., we will be informed of how this law has worked in that regard. However, I am concerned that the Food Agency is also involved here. However, as we have heard from the news and know, there is a debate in the Food Agency about whether the staff is currently oversized and if there is a desire to make savings there. At the same time, there are a number of other laws that have a central role to play in the Food Agency, and I am concerned that we are here, on a proposal from the Government, to legislate in which the role of the Food Agency is a key player, but at the same time we should also ensure that the obligations of monitoring legislation can then be taken care of. In that sense, it is certainly good that the committee will focus on whether our resources are sufficient at the stage of the report of the next legislation and hope that it will be able to concentrate on monitoring the law in the same way. However, it is very good that this system is based on the first remark and advice of an unintentional error. However, it would be unreasonable for small operators in a small sector to start making payments immediately or to go through legal processes to take things forward, and in that sense it is easy to support this law and its spirit. I would also like to thank the opposition as well as the representatives of the government for a good, constructive debate in the preparation of the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u108	Mr President! It seems that we members of the committee have raised much of the same points here, mainly in relation to the adoption of this report. I too would like to emphasise the cooperation that has been done above all between the government and the opposition. But on this statement I would like to highlight this, which was raised in the hearing, this administrative penalty payment. It can only be given by the Food Agency. So when it is estimated that it could also be given to ely and Customs, that's not the case, it's the Food Agency's job. I am also concerned about what Mrs Myllykoski said, for example, that the resources of the Food Agency are currently at a very critical level. And it seems that these tasks are going to be quite significant, so we have to worry that the Agency will also have the resources to deal with these issues when the monitoring responsibility comes. Thank you to the members of the committee and, above all, to the chairman. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u109	And the chairman of the committee, Kalmari.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u110	Thank you for a good debate. Representative Autto was the first to raise the value of Finnish clean food. I think it is wonderful that it is being raised here from time to time so that we can appreciate it. Even in Finland, the lowest number of plant protection products are used in Europe per hectare of arable land, and we are at the forefront of the low levels of residues in our food. In fact, most of the residues of plant protection products received by Finns come from foreign food, although most of the food we eat is domestic. This is one thing that the Finnish consumer may not be able to appreciate as much as it means to our health, so it is good and important that we take care, for example, of these pests so that plant protection products do not need to be used in the future as much as it does elsewhere. Finally, there is concern about the resources of the Food Agency, and that will certainly be considered in the context of the budgetary procedure in our committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u111	Mr President! Concerns about plant health and the fact that different plant diseases outside Finland’s borders, especially those from the south, are not quite justified and justified. However, when the climate has warmed up quite rapidly, it is clear that it will create a good platform for bringing some living plants here as if secretly we can cause huge destruction. This has been seen specifically in the fields: for example, a colorado beetle — I think a potato pest — is a very serious disease and causes immediate serious action if one is found in the field of the farm. This is one example, and there are a huge number of others. I do not even know everyone, but the messages I have heard from experts have to be taken very seriously. As chairman of the Committee on the Environment, I could also say that, now that we have had a debate on the total ban on the use of peat or its drastic reduction, there is a huge environmental risk in relation to forest health, because we simply do not have the number of trees in this country and there is nowhere to find it to replace the use of peat. It just doesn't exist. It is a cold fact when you look at the statistics on sales of wood in Finland, how much wood is sold in Finland, how much energy wood is sold, how much wood is used in our neighbourhood. In other words, if this peat decision were taken from next year, it would mean that we have to import huge quantities of wood chips from abroad, and it can't be obtained anywhere but that part of the South, and then shiploads of different plant diseases into Finland. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that now that we are discussing a Finnish energy policy, which would pose a risk to the forests of Finland. Look at what happened in British Columbia, Canada, when a small pest spread into the forests. If I remember millions of dollars, it destroyed forests for about 15 million hectares. Not quite the whole forest area in Finland, compared to the amount, but almost. It's a huge forest disaster. Is that what we want in this country by making decisions that will then drive the health of Finnish forests into chaos? Or, equally, the fact that in Germany, for example, there were huge forest damage in recent summer, in the whole of Central Europe, in the Czech Republic and in Slovakia, for example. About 80 million hectares of forest were destroyed as a result of various fungal diseases and pests. It was the untreated forests and then the over-age forests. If we do this as we have done in Central Europe, we will end the management of forests and the renewal of forests, we will experience the same fate, and I warn you, ladies and gentlemen, that this is not the way to go. Yes, you can talk and say things, but you have to take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u112	Mr President! We Finnish consumers can be very happy. We are fortunate that the plant health situation in our country is very good. We get to eat clean food, that's a privilege. It does not necessarily take it for granted if we do not insist that our producers will be competitive in the future. I would like to thank the chairman of the committee, Mr Kalmar, and all the representatives of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry for their very good cooperation, for the outcome of this report and for the fact that this statement on monitoring came to an end, which is very important. Representative Myllykoski also raised the issue of small operators and their ability to act in the future, as well as concerns about how the Finnish Food Agency will be able to function fully in the future. They are legitimate concerns. All in all, however, this cooperation with this report was very good within the committee, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u113	Mr President! On that previous point, during the oral Question Time, Mr Petelius raised, in his good speech, serious concerns as to how, in particular, the mass loss of insects is causing such a decline in species. Insects are a central pollinator for our food plants, so this also affects food security, not only in Finland, but in Europe and widely in the world. When there is a general suspicion that plant protection products are the main reason why the number of insects is falling, I believe that this too is a key defence to clean Finnish food, because we do not need to use these plant protection products on that scale, which can then be harmful to insect populations, for example. In this respect, it is very important that we can now not only promote Finnish food production by means of legislation, but also by talking widely for those things that make clean domestic food, but also a globally responsible ecology.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u114	Mr President! I will continue a little on the lines of Mr Hoskosen, which is a very good point, to point out that, as climate change progresses, it is very important to take care of the resilience of our entire plant breeding, food production and forestry, and that we have the right adjustment and resource management. That is extremely important. As far as what replaces peat is concerned, this simply shows that it is absolutely vital to develop and invest a great deal in various non-combustible ways of producing energy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u115	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen raised the issue of protecting forests and agriculture from pests. This issue is important and is also relevant to this issue. When we talk about agriculture and domestic food production, we really must remember that climate change also affects food security. Increased temperatures, changes in rainfall and the increase in extreme phenomena make food production more difficult for both us and the world in particular. July was the warmest summer in the history of measurement in the world, and according to the grain industry, the summer was also dry in Finland. Due to drought, spring crop yields remain only satisfactory. Indeed, climate change also affects forestry. Warming increasingly exposes forests to storm damage, drought, forest fires, pests and diseases. Forest use, agriculture and the entire land-use sector must be reformed to meet the challenges of climate change, so that in the future we will also have food, jobs, a diverse life on earth in general. As drought in the world weakens the opportunities to grow food in existing places, it may also be necessary to produce food in Finnish agriculture for a wider number of people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u116	Mr President! It is also about food production when we talk about plant health that we are talking about. For example, Finnish grain varieties have been developed as a result of long, long development work in Finnish fields, suitable for the Finnish climate, and if we were to risk bringing in plant diseases that are a danger to the species we are developing ourselves, the crop species in this country, then we would be taking a huge risk in terms of our own food production, because in the coming decades it will certainly be a country that itself will be able to provide its own citizens with the necessary food — and in Finnish agriculture it actually means decentralised food production — that is the protection of our citizens. There are such different climate zones in Finland that when there is already a good spring in the south, even a good start of summer, there is still a bit of snow and cold in Lapland. So we have an excellent chance of doing this ourselves. And as far as energy production is concerned, plant safety also applies to it, because if we go out here and carry pickets around the world, it is certainly — when those chips are not in any way heat-treated or disinfected, they are brought straight from the cargo to and from the ship — there is such a huge risk that I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you do not even think about that option at all. The second point is that, when we talk about domestic energy, we have been building a huge district heating network in this country for decades, with the book value of which we are talking, I do not know about billions, but probably between 10 and 20 billion that value happens, and if we are going to scrap this — now there is no way to deal with this, nothing more than to continue on this good CHP line, and that is where plant health comes up at the moment when we get those goods out of the woods on the road. If we risk it ourselves, there is nothing we can do to replace it. The work done by Mr Kalmar and the work and work done by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry may seem trivial to many of us, but when we look at it with tiny glasses, we will certainly see that the protection of the health of Finnish forests — both forests and fields — is extremely important, and I hope that it will be taken seriously, as the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry has done in this report.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u117	And would the chairman of the committee perhaps have the last words?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u118	Mr President! I am still drawing a little bit into the global context of this plant health law, which, in fact, in every speech comes as some kind of connection. It is true that timber, for example, carries a very high risk of getting dangerous plant pests. Above all, the comments that climate change has a bearing on this are indeed the right ones. But with regard to the global context, we have good plant health. I was talking about a small supply of plant protection products, and I am describing, for example, the type of activity on the other side of the Atlantic, which is commonplace: They do aerial spraying for pest control. That's where everything goes, every single insect in the vast areas. You can imagine that airplanes are not exactly fine-tuning. It's where the birds suffer at the same time. They suffer for two reasons: direct contamination, pesticides, and then they suffer from insect disappearance. In addition, there is genetic modification that is used to harness plants such as this beta toxin, which causes all or a very large proportion of the insects that come to that plant to die. Although attempts have been made to make them selective, such as corny bites, they then destroy other organisms. One consequence of this type of large - scale pest control is certainly that bees disappear from the earth, the pollinator insects in general disappear. This may be the kind of debate we have had in Finland. We may have a single plant protection product that is typical of us, and yet at the same time, for example, there are very many substances in soya or maize cultivation that are completely banned in Europe, and even more substances that are banned in Finland, where the range of plant protection products is very insignificant and terribly controlled and studied. This is a lottery victory for a Finnish consumer if you understand to stick to Finnish food as far as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u119	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 7/2019 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u120	Mr President! Finland is a long and fine country and, geographically, air transport is an important part of the transport system. Finland lives from export industries, and export industries are located all over the country, mainly in those provinces, so connections to Europe and the world are of invaluable importance. In a delightful way, the Finnish tourism industry has also supported the growth of the national economy in recent years, and, of course, for the tourism industry, air transport also plays a crucial role. So it is great that the government has brought a proposal to Parliament to reduce the air traffic control fee by 10%, and we are therefore able to make sure that air traffic in Finland remains competitive. This is a very good proposal, and the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism is certainly in line with what Parliament can accept.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u121	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 3/2019 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. Chairman of the committee, represented by Vehviläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u122	Mr President! The content of this report is very technical, but I welcome the fact that we are also going to go through what these reports will contain in our deliberations. In other words, the report 3/2019 by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health from the Parliament deals with the amendment of the Act on the Functioning and Financing of the Institute of Occupational Health so that the provisions on the financing of specialist medical training in occupational health care are in force for an indefinite period. Financial provisions for specialist training in occupational health care have been in force provisionally since 2005. These provisions are due to expire at the end of this year. According to the report before us, the law protecting the validity of an indefinite period is intended to enter into force on 1 January 2020. The aim is to align the funding of specialist occupational health care training with the funding of other specialist and specialised dental training. According to the Government's proposal, the preparatory work for integration is to be continued. The current temporary provisions will be added to the law until further harmonisation of the funding of specialist occupational health care and other specialist and specialised dental training is established. The committee considers the draft law to be appropriate and supports its adoption as unchanged. The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u123	Mr President! The chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has just given an excellent account of the content of this law. In this context, I would like to say briefly that in Finland occupational health care in particular is a central part of our social and health services system. It costs a little less than EUR 800 million a year and, in practice, costs about EUR 400 per employee per year because around 2 million people are covered by occupational health care. In practice, occupational health care is divided into sickness reception, which is less compensated by the Social Insurance Institution, and then into prevention, with higher compensation, and in other respects the employer covers these costs. It is excellent that we now have this legislative proposal to establish a core professional group, occupational health care doctors, specialist training and in this way to promote the occupational health care system.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u124	Mr President! Mr Vehviläinen and Mr Lindén, here, well opened up this amendment of the law. I myself would have liked briefly to say that there is a warmly supported change in this aspect of our occupational health care. In a certain way occupational health care specialists are one important part of our health care and medical care. Occupational health doctors are familiar with working conditions and the needs of the workers and, I would say, with specific matters that should be taken into account by the doctor rather than at the health centre alone by general practitioners. That is why we have had a very good system of occupational health care, not only as a preventative but also in medical care and since we have been absent from work. And, of course, financial management is also important. Hopefully, however, we will be able to harmonise all these aspects in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u125	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. In this context, discussion is also allowed on the 7th issue of the agenda. I will first give the floor to the authors of the initiatives, to Mrs Kiljunen and then to Mrs Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u126	Mr President! Pensioners in Finland are the only group of income recipients whose standard of living is being reduced by law, thanks to the employment pension index approved in 1995 — in the national language it is called a folded index. It is good to remember that earnings-related pension is a statutory old-age pension in Finland. The national pension and the guarantee pension, which we are also talking about here, and it is worth talking about, are basic security. The actual old-age pension in Finland is a earnings-related employment pension scheme. 98% of all over 65-year-olds receive earnings-related pension. Mr President! We now have a bill of 7/2019 that we are discussing here, which is designed to reverse this folded index and restore the mid-term index, which was in force at the time of the introduction of the folded index in 1995. However, the bill proposes its index structure to be changed in that two thirds of the increase reserve would be euro increases and a third would be this so-called traditional percentage increase. This is therefore aimed at reducing the income gap, which is also an activity under the Government Programme in this respect. The idea is also to give us an idea of how this new index system would work, that it would be set at the first stage for a period of ten years, which would give us experience both from the perspective of the financial sustainability of the pension system itself and from the point of view of the development of pensions. Mr President! This is not the first time that this Chamber has discussed the repeal of a folded index. This is the third time. For the first time, a referral debate was held in 1997 on the basis of the initiative taken by Mr Kanerva. It moved on to the committee, but it was never discussed by the special committee in question. For the second time in this Chamber, the repeal of the folded index was discussed on the basis of the relevant citizens' initiative in spring 2016. The citizens' initiative had received 85,000 signatures — by then it was the second most widely signed popular initiative of all themes and subjects. However, Parliament did not accept that citizens' initiative, it rejected it. I followed that debate very carefully in this Chamber and remember that there were only two representatives here who were prepared to correct the index and restore the mid-term index: representatives of Sari Tanus and Mr Jukka Gustafsson. They were the only ones who were specifically prepared to work towards the introduction of this mid-term index. It is true that the Socialist Group in Parliament objected to the poverty agenda for pensioners, and in part we are now enjoying its pearls when we look at this current government programme. However, I appreciate the fact that we have two legislative initiatives here today to abolish the folded index. I do not know if the whole Finnish Parliament has been signing it, but a large group. I also approached the Finns of Peru with this joint initiative — we have ten MPs from different parties behind this initiative, which I am presenting here — but the Finns of Peru did not want to join but took their own initiative. That's good. That's good. That's good. However, I would like to remind you that a couple of years ago, when a folded index was discussed here in the Chamber, the Finns Party rejected the citizens' initiative which was taken at that time unanimously.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u131	Mr President! The economic difficulties of Finns have become more and more alarming in recent years. There are problems in all population groups, but the situation of low-income pensioners is particularly serious. There is a strong signal among pensioners that something is seriously wrong. One key reason for this is that increases in pensions have not kept pace with rising cost of living, and this situation has continued for a long time. The Finns have repeatedly proposed improving the position of low-income pensioners, and this too will be strongly reflected in the future shadow budget. That is why I decided to draw up the mid-term index of the legislative initiative under discussion today. At present, an index has been folded in which the change in the price level of pensions has a weighting of 80 per cent and that of the change in earnings of 20 per cent. The current practice was introduced in 1996 and the decision was based on a reduction in pension expenditure. The consequences of this change can now be seen. Pensioner poverty has increased considerably. The adequacy of pensions must be reflected in the actual costs of everyday life. Food, medicines and housing, including electricity bills, have risen year by year, and the situation has reached the point where the lowest-income pensioners are in trouble. The message is clear: increases based on the folded index are not enough to secure sufficient purchasing power for pensioners in a long run, and the development of pensions is not keeping pace with wage developments. The purpose of the occupational pension is to secure a certain income level based on the earnings of the working career for pensioners, but according to the Finnish Centre for Pensions, at present as many as 40% of pensioners have a pension below EUR 1250 per month. Coping with it is really challenging, if possible, at today’s prices. Think about which of us would get along with this EUR 1250. In the mid-term index, changes in price and earnings levels represent 50 per cent of the pension in consideration of the contribution. This would be a fairer way of determining the level of pensions to reflect real-life cost developments. I propose in the initiative the application of the mid-term index to all occupational pensions up to EUR 1500. In particular, the aim is to improve the financial situation of low-income pensioners. Of course, one might think that the ceiling could be raised to between 2000 and 2500, but one should think that these very low-income people in particular are in real distress right now. My initiative was strongly supported by representatives of the People's Republic of Finland and is in line with the blue and white and fair policy advocated by our party. I hope that pensioner poverty will also slow down in the government and that measures will be taken to reduce pensioner poverty and safeguard the purchasing power of pensioners. The nominal increases in guaranteed pensions are not enough, and tougher measures are needed, such as this index reform I have proposed. Mrs Kiljunen has also made a strong point about this situation for pensioners through her legislative initiative, and I thank her for that. I also note that we Finns have been in the government for two years in history, and this burden of government is not very great, because we are no longer in the government. Others did not want us, and the situation became that things came up that we would not have accepted. We presented our own performances and they were not wanted to be carried out. So the sin list for us is a little smaller than for example the SDP, which has been in the government very often in the light of history and was also bringing this folded index — which is still valid at the moment — to the present day, that is, it has now been in force since 96. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u132	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that the legislative initiatives on the introduction of the mid-term index are finally here in the Chamber in the debate. Just three years ago, we had a debate on the citizens' initiative initiated by the Senior Movement and signed by more than 80,000 citizens, which called for the index of earnings-related pensions to be converted into an index of wage levels. So it was necessary to delete the folded index. Three years ago, the initiative was not progressing, and I now have to be a little more specific to Mr Kiljunen as he was present.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vanhanen promised a debate on the subject a moment ago, and that is what I am going to open. Press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u140	Mr President! I seem to have been the longest representative of this House and I have answered thousands of times to the public what Jukka is doing to correct our employment pension system and improve the position of pensioners — that is, thousands of times. It is a stone that chafes heavily among the citizens, the elderly. And we understand that, as Mrs Kiljunen said, this current system legally impoverishs pensioners. I therefore believe that this proposal, the mid-term index, is realistic, fair and there is money for it. And it increases purchasing power. It's not from anyone. It would probably create thousands of jobs over the next ten years with increased purchasing power. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u141	Great. Let's hold on to this minute. That was an excellent example.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u142	Mr President! Mr Tanus gave the floor, which was a complete matter, but Mr Kiljunen, on the other hand, recalled things somewhat selectively. Firstly, the citizens' initiative which was discussed here in March 17. It contained a 100% shift to the wage index, and right away. That would have been a pretty big jump. That is why Mr Elomaa's initiative is realistic and excellent. It favours only the smallest pensioners. Then, of course, it must be said that, at the end of this parliamentary term, if this Parliament now sits and the government stands until 2023, the Social Democrats have been in the government for 20 years and only 8 years since 1995, when you weakened this index.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u145	Mr President! However, I do not think we should have a long debate on the types of initiatives that have been taken in this Parliament on this folded index. Very few of them have been made. As has been said, in a way, three legislative initiatives have been taken and one time there has been a citizens' initiative to open a debate on a folded index, and it is important to note in this respect that there are now more than 30 Members of Parliament here who want to open this debate. So there's really no point in going there and saying who's done what along the way. Too little has been done, it has not been noticed that yes, 95 problems were that the financial sustainability of our pension system was in a difficult position because of the pension bomb and the baby boomers. Today, on the basis of the Mercer Global Pension Index, when assessing the world's pension systems, Finland's pension system is one of the best in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u149	Mr Meri and then other parties will be included.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u150	Mr President! Personally, I am receiving a huge amount of mail from pensioners, particularly those with low and middle incomes, and they are very concerned about how their money will be sufficient. And, of course, there would be very quick solutions for this, which could have been put forward by the government parties in this budget, even if they had already done so. Depreciation of medical responsibilities has an even greater effect on taxation, housing costs, because people are interested in what is left over. It is in itself the same to them as it comes through. And I would be happy to see this initiative by the Finns living in Elomaa move forward, because there are some problems with that initiative by Kiljunen. But I have to say that when Mr Kiljunen started this recollection, I would now like you to speak to your minister when you have the portfolio of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, once again, and you are on the board.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u152	Mr President! Today we have just received a proposal from the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to increase the number of small pensions: EUR 50 for a guarantee pension and EUR 34 for a national pension. And I would like to say to Mr Kiljunen, when you were not here during the last parliamentary term, that it was not so black, it was then three times increased the guarantee pension, for a total of EUR 47. Then a little like this a more political assessment of this situation. I fully understand these initiatives that there are concerns about small and medium-sized pensions here, but I would like to say that in the 2016 Yle survey to the parliamentary groups, no party was in favour of changing the pension index. Not a single party. That is why I am saying this in this context, because I do not think it is realistic that this is going to change, even though two initiatives have now been taken. Then, as an observation, the names of your presidency were missing at the initiative of the Finns. I don't know.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u153	Mr President! In my opinion, there have been changes in the livelihood of pensioners in this decade and pensioner poverty is a fact. We should work together to analyse why this is happening. Of course, it is primarily the level of pensions, then the level of taxation for pensioners, and then the actual consumption of pensioners, i.e., if you estimate where pensioners spend their money, then they spend more on housing and health care than they do on transport in part of the country. This is a big package, and this initiative is a good one, and I myself have written it in principle because I have the right to speak and, as it were, the right to continue to process these initiatives taken by Mr Kiljunen and Mr Elomaa. My position is also the position of the Assembly, i.e. the Assembly proposes the creation of a High-Level Parliamentary Group to examine the sustainability of the earnings-related pension system.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u154	Mr President! I too, as the signatory to this bill by Mrs Kiljune, would like to say a few words on this point. Of course, the most important thing would be for the income level of low-income pensioners to be raised immediately. In other words, this index does not immediately bite because its impact is small, but it will then correct in the longer term. And now the government has already corrected the guarantee pension and the national pension that comes from that side of the budget, and this comes from these occupational pension funds. In this motion by Mr Kiljune, I see that two thirds of the increase in euros would increase the pension for a low-income person immediately and then one third would come as a percentage. I think this is a very, very good solution. And then the cost effect of this, as Mr. Kiljunen said,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u155	Mr President! I was pleased to be able to sign these legislative initiatives. I also signed Mr. Kiljune's bill, but that name disappeared on the way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u160	Mr President! Pensioners are concerned about income, which is linked to the fact that the amount of compulsory expenditure has increased all the time, and when income does not increase in the same proportion, then of course it becomes a problem. This is almost every time we meet pensioners in those turbulent and squares. The opinion of the Coalition Party has been that the main way of correcting this income problem is through taxation, and that is, in fact, the problem that between EUR 1300 and EUR 3600 per month a pensioner pays more tax on his pension than the corresponding employee. But the problem is, of course, that we have a lot of pensioners who earn far less than this amount. And, as Mr Vehviläinen said earlier, in fact, there has been a correction of the full amount of national pension and the amount of guarantee pension in this House today, which slightly improves this situation. Like Mr Eestilä
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u161	Mr President! We are talking about a very important and central issue when we talk about the livelihood of pensioners. Benefits are very important, but I would also like to point out that services also play a very important role in the lives of pensioners and the elderly. Just as much we need to raise the benefits of these low-income pensioners in particular, as Mrs Vehviläinen well pointed out that we have just today received an e-mail — and I also received an information note — that there are going to be increases in the smallest pensions. This is particularly important for us in the centre that we now receive increases in the guarantee pension and national pension. But then it must also be remembered that the government in many ways improves the services of pensioners and is also committed to reforming the Consumer Fees Act in its programme. For many pensioners, customer fees are a very large item of expenditure,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u162	Mr President! The parliamentary working party is certainly to be welcomed. On the other hand, it is great that the Finns have also come up with this kind of bill. But, as we know, a simple change in the index for small pensions is certainly not enough, but I would like that statement, which I have already made in the last period, to be able to proceed in such a way that the government takes action, in other words to negotiate with the various parties to raise the level of small occupational pensions, because that is what is really needed. A few other figures here are quite interesting: if we think that next year's budget is just over EUR 57 billion and the government debt is already over EUR 100 billion, and then if we think that these large investments in destroyers amount to EUR 10 billion, then this huge sounding amount, almost that amount, will come out of the EUR 207 billion,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u163	Mr President! I am also in favour of this bill by Mrs Kiljune and I have signed it. It has already been well-founded in this regard that the money would be enough to abolish the folded index and implement the mid-term index, but it is interesting to wonder why these funds are actually being raised in such huge sums for those funds, when it does not seem to be the intention to use them or even their profits to benefit pensioners. I quickly came up with three reasons: First of all, the EMU criteria. The surplus of pension funds is taken into account when monitoring the state of Finnish public finances in the light of the so-called EMU criteria, and the surplus of pension funds is beneficial when these criteria are applied. It may partially or completely reverse the deficit of central government finances or municipalities. The second reason is the fact that since the turn of the millennium, pension funds have become increasingly risky, and under these circumstances, there is no doubt that: [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u164	Now the President is taking power and reminding us of this minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u165	Mr President! Today we have two very important legislative initiatives to correct the folded index of occupational pensions. Both Mrs Elomaa and Mrs Kiljunen's legislative initiatives are entirely on the right track, thanks very much to the authors of these initiatives. It has been said here today that the previous government raised and that this government is going to raise guarantee pensions, but that is not enough. Many other measures are also needed to maintain the purchasing power of pensioners. The taxation of pensions, among other things, must be reduced to the level of wage income. Mr President! This bill, drawn up by the representative of Elomaa and signed by several representatives of the Finnish People's Party, proposes a mid-term index to be applied for the first 1500 euros of the monthly pension income of each earnings-related pensioner. I would stress that this proposal would benefit all pensioners, but the purchasing power of those receiving a small earnings-related pension.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u166	Mr President! I would have pointed out the steps taken by this regime to improve the livelihood of pensioners, which Anu Vehviläinen has already stressed, and I would have commented on the ‘small dropos’ in Elomaa, which you said in that toilet. I see that these progress, which has now been made specifically in raising the guarantee pension and the smallest pensions, has been significant in my view. In addition, I have often been concerned at the market that not all pensioners are pensioners who are already old enough to be on the couch at home, but some are keen to continue working. I would like to draw attention to a record of the government programme which specifically seeks to facilitate the taxation of the work of pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u167	Mr President! The purchasing power of low-income pensioners should be increased. We know that pensioners put their money around here in Finland. It's not like they're investing in a foreign country. The money's going around. What, then, is fair? Let me take an example: Women, elderly people, many of whom worked at the age of 14 and who have worked in the care sector, in the shop, in the cleaning industry, are said to have a very small pension. Over 40 years of work, pension about 1300. Is that fair? It's not like this. That is why we must now push through the issue of low-income pensioners together, as those of us here will probably think. This mid-term index is one way to deal with this issue. And especially these low-income pensioners are now
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u168	Mr President! The chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Mr Vehviläinen, is quite right that this is an important solution, which has been made, these increases in guaranteed pensions and national pensions. It starts with the most vulnerable group of pensioners, of course, from people with disabilities. He said that it is not really realistic to start talking about this employment pension index and this occupational pension scheme. I am reminded of this statement by British author Owen when he compared realists and idealists and said that idealists want to change the world and the realists, Mr Vehviläinen, believe that this is not possible. But we idealists don't believe it. We change the world. You are sitting in the seat of the king-maker, you are the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and you have the opportunity to take these legislative initiatives before the committee now. Let's change the world. Realism is that EUR 183 million we are now spending on these smallest pensions. We see that budget resources are scarce. EUR 8 billion 25 years in a row have increased on average in the year. We can afford to take some of that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u169	Mr President! As I said, no parliamentary party in 2016 was in favour of this index correction, which is why I dare to talk about some kind of realism. It's only been three years. And at the same time, I would like to say — when I understand and have talked to hundreds of people in squares and squares on this issue, ever since the mid-1990s — that there is something I am somewhat annoyed about. I respect the fact that you have taken these legal initiatives. It is right and you have every right to do so, but then I think that when people are given the belief that if we come to power we will fix this, and some governments have always done the studies, but as I have told you, 2016 was not supported by any parliamentary party and there are no names here for this Parliament either. That is what I wanted to say. But as I said, I respect the fact that you have done these things and raise an important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u170	Mr President! In general, when you do not want to promote it, you want to set up a working group — but the parliamentary group itself is a beautiful idea. I consider Mr Elomaa and Mr Kiljunen's initiatives to be good and worthwhile. However, I would like to raise the issue of reductions, namely labour income and pension income and deductions from them, which Mr Kiljunen well knows. Mr Yrttiaho made some sense about the funds, and I believe that we can work together on these matters. However, I hope for strength and energy for Mr Kiljunen. Now that the initiative has been tabled, he still needs some kind of great aura and a miracle to overcome the greatest obstacle: Mr Kiljunen still needs to empower the Socialist Group and get Prime Minister Rinne behind him so that this can be done — Godspeed!
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u171	Mr President! Reference has been made here to the parliamentary working party and also to the government's actions. In my memory, either a tripartite working group is being set up to assess the situation of pensioners, and it is here that we need a tripartite one, because the social partners are very much involved. It does not go by itself by the fact that the government is taking action and then leaves the legislation as it moves forward. This requires the social partners. This is what we have been talking about with regard to the taxation of pensioners. Indeed, there is more tax on the same pension than on the same wage income, but there are many things that have to do with it: for example, the reduction in pension income is lower than the reduction in earned income, and then, accordingly, employees have different commuting deductions and pensioners do not have them, and the social security contribution remains to be paid.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u172	Mr President! Katainen’s government set up such a task force. I have here the Katainen government program from 11. On page 64, it states: ‘The working group will assess the potential need for a change in the employment pension index system. “ I myself was in those government negotiations and driving this sentence here, and then it happened that such a task force 2011 was set up and, as I recall, 2012 it was completed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u175	Chairman! Personally, I would estimate that when we have nearly 1600,000 pensioners and there seems to be 1350,000 of them on old-age pensions, it is so easy for these people to become an object before the elections and to promise when, as may have been the case. In this respect, I think it would be most reasonable to set up a high-level parliamentary group that takes the livelihoods and other problems of pensioners seriously. There are many things involved, as I said. I myself have been in a couple of parliamentary transport groups which the Minister has drawn up, and there has been a proper attitude, and we have obtained a sensible, even unanimous, result there, and they have been implemented in Finnish politics, that I should not underestimate this parliamentary work. And if I say my own opinion, there is a danger in it because of these little signatories that this whole initiative will go into the trash can, and that is why I would like these things really to be investigated, because these are not simple things, then this thing will stay alive and
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u176	Mr President! I do have the impression that, when we are talking about the mid-term index, its support and support in the various parties is actually greater than one might now understand from some of the speeches. Then there is always this other side, if a little bit of Kiljunen's philosophizing — what I wrote here — that you can feel right even though you are in a minority. I have considered this mid-term index realistic for 15 years, consistently speaking and acting in favour of it. At the time of this citizens' initiative, I realized that we would go like a full index. It was not so easy to move forward, but this is basically possible,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u177	And like this. Now the minute is full, and I will give the floor, Mr Lehto, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u178	Mr President! Pension assets will be sufficient and sustainable for the mid-term index if the income is well and properly invested and there are qualified persons investing. Pension funds are rising all the time, but at the same time, like my generation, they will remain on a later retirement pension if only the ability to work is sufficient, and they will be used less, given that the life expectancy will not rise again. That I don't think these are enough. I would like to ask Mr Eestilä why, on the one hand, he has defended the mid-term index but, on the other hand, he wants a parliamentary working party. I would like to quote from her partner in the party: ‘On the other hand,there is no need for automatic origins,that all the fruits of the productivity growth of today’s active generations belong automatically also to I can't believe this. Our pensioners have built this welfare society,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u179	Let's go to the list of speakers, and there's Congressman Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u180	Mr President! Pensioner poverty is a serious social problem. The government's increase in national and guaranteed pensions next year is a good start in reducing pensioner poverty. The government invests very significantly, EUR 183 million, in the livelihood of the poorest pensioners. The Social Security Committee today adopted a report which will increase national pension by EUR 34 and guarantee pension by EUR 50 next year. In addition to the level of pensions, the income of low-income pensioners is affected by expenditure. It is important to look not only at pensions but also at what we can do to moderate the expenditure of pensioners. For example, housing expenditure, pharmaceutical expenditure and health care fees burden many low-income pensioners. For example, housing policy and the reform of customer charges are of great importance for low-income pensioners. The welfare of pensioners is also affected by public services and their quality, so government plans to improve access to health centres and strengthen elderly services are essential for older people. All pensioners must be guaranteed adequate income and the equality of pensioners must be improved. As in other age groups, there are also large differences among pensioners. Some have large pensions and wealth, others do not. Average earnings-related pensions have risen in recent years, but the pension gap is large. Therefore, pensioners and their livelihoods cannot be spoken of as a single group, and as decision-makers we must focus in particular on reducing pensioner poverty and improving the position of low-income pensioners. Mr President! The occupational pension scheme and its sustainability must be considered in the long term so that existing workers and young age groups can also rely on the sustainability, functionality and fairness of the scheme. Our earnings-related pension system is partly funded, i.e. most of the pensions paid are paid by the employees concerned. About one-fifth of earnings-related pension contributions are funded and funds are buffering the system in different economic cycles and yielding about one-fifth of pensions. Consequently, the employment rate, the wage level and the labour force also affect the sustainability of the pension system. The financing of occupational pensions is planned on the basis of the current index and the additional costs of the mid-term index, estimated by the Finnish Centre for Pensions to be relatively small in the first year but around EUR 571 million per year in five years' time, EUR 910 million in ten years' time, EUR 1.8 billion in 20 years' time and further growth. The result would be a significant increase in occupational pension contributions in order to ensure the sustainability of the system. According to the calculations, after five years the upward pressure would be 0.6%, after ten years it would be 0.9% and after 20 years it would be 1.5%. Depreciation of funds would also lead to an upward pressure on pension contributions, as the income of the funds will reduce the employment pension contributions and the income of the funds will pay about one-fifth of the pension expenditure. The calculations are based on the calculations made by the Finnish Centre for Pensions, and at least I do not have the skills to question the calculations made by the public authority. Mr President! At the current birth rate and the projected demographic trend, earnings-related pension contributions may have to be increased even if no changes are made to the indices. Our earnings-related pension system is sustainable, but current demographic trends weaken sustainability and put pressure on us. If the indices were changed, there would be two kinds of pressure on the system. It should be borne in mind that the employment pension contribution has increased considerably in recent decades and current and future employees pay higher contributions than in previous decades. In the 1980s, the employment pension contribution was about 15 per cent. Today it is 24.4%. Mr President! The mid-term index would give the highest number of old-age pensioners in euro and would not necessarily be a very cost-effective means of reducing pensioner poverty. It is, however, perfectly legitimate to be concerned that many people will have a low pension and that small pensions have not developed sufficiently and that the purchasing power of pensioners will be small and insufficient for many people to live. Consideration should therefore be given to ways of developing a pension system that would increase the equality of pensioners and improve small occupational pensions. For example, efforts should be made to reconcile work and national pensions with a view to improving the livelihood of low-income pensioners. It is also appropriate to explore ways of raising occupational pensions in order to better safeguard the development and purchasing power of small occupational pensions. The Government Programme outlines the launch of a tripartite study on how to improve the position of people with the lowest earnings-related pensions within the earnings-related pension scheme. As part of this study, ways of raising occupational pensions below EUR 1400 will be explored without any increase in earnings-related pension contributions. In this context, it should also be possible to assess the potential and feasibility of the Euro-plus-percent increase model included in Mr Kiljunen's initiative, together with the social partners.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u181	Mr President! To begin with, the fact is that there are a total of 1.5 million pensioners in Finland, some 1.4 million of whom receive earnings-related pension. The average total pension is EUR 1669 per month and the national pension complements a small earnings-related pension when the earnings-related pension is less than EUR 1300 per month. So this is what Tela’s statistics tell us, among other things. The initiatives taken by representatives Kiljunen and Elomaa really concern the livelihoods and purchasing power of people on a small pension, and when I read through the initiatives, I noticed that there are a lot of important points in the explanatory statement about pensioner poverty. That's a good thing. The Finnish pension system, both the earnings-related pension scheme and our national pension scheme and the relatively recent guarantee pension scheme, form a whole designed to ensure the security and livelihood of each Finnish citizen. Of course, there are development needs, and I myself am among those who think, as is the case in my own party in the centre, that these development needs are particularly present in the smallest pensions there, both for national pensions and for guaranteed pensions. That it's the most essential of all these things. Indeed, as Mr Sarkkinen has already said, we have today produced a report on the increase in small pensions, and I think that is a good thing. I am sure that we have all received a lot of feedback on this over the last few years and on the ground, and it is right that this should be done. In other words, the full guarantee pension will rise to EUR 834 and the full amount of national pension to EUR 663. I note that these increases will affect more than 600,000 pensioners in total and will amount to EUR 183 million next year. So, of course, I think these are heading in the right direction. At the same time, however, I see that in the whole everyday picture of pensioners, when we look at not only the level of pension, but also how much money goes into living, food, medicine, a personal life that is absolutely necessary, so it is true that we can actually talk about pensioners' poverty, and we must recognise it together, and I have seen it in all these speeches. For example, last year we had almost 35,000 people over the age of 65 who had a default mark, and that is quite a lot. It is a concrete account of this. There today's report from the Committee on Social Affairs and Health also took a stand on this pensioner poverty. The information we have on pensioner poverty is very fragmented and fragmented, and we think in that way and we propose to Parliament that we should also carry out a comprehensive study of the nature and causes of pensioner poverty so that we can do all the measures we need to do. As far as the government is concerned, I believe that the key and concrete issue will be to bring this legislation on customer fees to Parliament as quickly as possible. You know that there is a lot of unfairness in customer fees and they should be corrected. It has at least two, if not three governments, which have now failed to import. However, a few tens of millions of euros of money has now been earmarked for this by the government, so that we can also make adjustments in order to really moderate customer charges. That's what I think is important. But then I would like to say something about these legal initiatives by the representatives: As I said, I understand this concern, but personally I am very concerned about the sustainability of our pension system, despite the fact that we have more than EUR 200 billion funded. I think in that way that in this future, or already uncertain world, where there are crises at international level and we ourselves cannot know how Finland is always doing here at national level, I think it is a good day for us and the generations that follow us, and a good day for security, that we have funded and that we always have the ability to pay people's pensions. This is also one of the reasons why I personally think in this way that I appreciate the initiatives but cannot support them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u182	Talks about this toilet for a maximum of 7 minutes, from your own seat for 3 minutes. This is for Mr Lehto's information when you were whispering about it just now from Savilo.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u183	Mr President! As has been said here, earnings-related pension is an income-related benefit. Its task is to secure earned income during retirement. However, pensions are constantly lagging behind in the development of earnings levels. In a couple of decades, the pension level will fall to 40% of the earned average wage. In theory, the folded index raises the pension level only by one fifth of the increase in real wages. If the real development of the average pension is seen in different indices between 95 and 2015, the folded index has only increased the real development by EUR 73 per month. The mid-term index, if it had remained, would have increased by EUR 208 per month. And the wage index is just over 400 euros a month. So there is a significant difference between what has happened in real development when you have become a folded index. Japan’s pensioners are making progressive crimes to get into prison. And the reason is loneliness and poverty. According to statistics, more than 21 percent of prisoners in Japan are over 65 years of age, and the rate of crime recurrence is twice as high as that of young criminals. Although offences over the age of 65 are minor, they are also subject to much longer sentences than the Finnish level. Why, then, do pensioners in Japan commit so many crimes? Pensioner poverty is often the reason. There's not enough money for food, medicine, no heat, an apartment. That is why we must ensure that our own pensioners do not end up doing the same here in the future. We have a large number of pensioners who are squirming about a small pension and worry about tomorrow is present every day. Many have made a long and heavy career, yet the pension may have been small, and the livelihood is challenging. There are medical expenses, there are medical bills, and living anyway is becoming more expensive. It's not enough when it hasn't come. There have been some leftovers, and that is a good start for low-income pensioners, but we urgently need changes to this, and that is the solution to the mid-term index, at that point in time. Its impact is not immediately visible, but it will ensure a better growth in the purchasing power of pensioners in the future than in the current form.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u184	Mr President! In my view, pensioner poverty has been affected in a significant way in this decade by different-looking increases in compulsory contributions. We know that, in relative terms, the consumption of pensioners is more focused on housing and, of course, on health care, and in a given country, pensioners still have to move their own cars. If it were considered that an employee spends 100 units in housing expenditure, the pensioner consumes about 120 units, and if the employee spends 100 units in health care, the pensioner consumes 190 units. When you look at these Statistics Finland's data, and these increases have taken place specifically in housing and health care, and my claim is that this is why pensioners have become poorer. That's why the coalition has been holding on to the fact that we should look at this index basket. So, in view of the actual consumption of pensioners, where it is directed, have the greatest increases taken place in the index basket? This means that this 80 to 20 employment pension index, or guarantee or small pensions, has not kept up with it. And when we know that the majority of those living alone are women and they have small pensions, and if they still live in a detached house in a certain area of Finland, then the result is that they will not survive those bills. That is why it is important for Parliament to discuss these pension issues. But now that this initiative has been taken with regard to the earnings-related pension scheme, then it is slightly different from the guarantee pension or national pension. And when we go into these indices, at least I have to admit that these are quite difficult because no one in this Chamber can see the future. We cannot see how these pension funds are developing. All of us are literate and we can see: For example, during the time I have been allowed to be a Member of Parliament myself, since 2011, pension funds have developed by more than 70 billion, but it is not a guarantee that they will develop well in the future. If we look back, then the development of these pension funds has really only been negative in a couple of years — three years, I think — since 95. In the 1990s, when there were the recessions, they fell by 14 million and the following year rose by 14 billion. I mean, they've been up all along. But now we are in such a special world, when we have had a world of negative interest rates for many years, that the world has a lot of money but no one knows where it should reasonably be invested. Stock exchange rates have risen continuously over the last ten years in the Yankees, and Europe and the rest of the world are following. That's why these profits have been good. But that is what we know when we think about future pensioners and when you look at Statistics Finland's data that in 2030 we will have more than 290,000 over 65 years of age than there will be in 2017. In other words, we know that the number of pensioners, or the number of people receiving these funds, is increasing all the time, but then we do not know what the rate of return of these funds will be. Of course they are aiming for a three-and-a-half percent real return — it is a tough thing if it is achieved, if this world continues to be like this, what it is now. This is the problem. The second problem is that we must take care of competitiveness. For example: There is one weak point in Mr Kiljunen's initiative: if we start from always increasing these occupational pension contributions only, in order to make pensions pay — it suggests little — then it may result in our unit labour costs going up again, which means that we are losing the competitiveness of exports, thereby creating unemployment and problems in paying these occupational pension contributions. So this is so hard. With these figures, I would argue that, in the opinion of the Assembly, a high-level parliamentary working party should actually be set up to properly examine this pension system and its future and its indices and the actual expenditure of pensioners in relation to that index basket. And then the taxation of pensioners will be assessed. I do not know today's number, but when I looked at it a year and a half ago, the taxation of pensioners was about 300 million more severe than that of employees, and it was at its best in certain income categories, whether 2.7 per cent was harsh, but then in small pensions again, small pensioners are in a way lower than that of corresponding wage earners. It varies a little where the curve goes, and it cuts itself at certain points. These issues should now be considered together. And I understand that Congressman Kankaanniemi experiences this kind of speech so that as if it were a brake, but it's not really. And now that the minister considers and the government considers that a working group like this will be set up and done for six months or eight months properly working and listening to a large number of experts and forming a parliamentary understanding of how to deal with pensioners' affairs, so I think it would be a big victory for pensioners, for the whole cause. What the end result of that task force would be on this very index issue, I cannot judge, because the general principle is that we should first investigate and then lose, but now we are going to go a bit the other way around. I think that the negative attitude of the big parties and many parties a couple of years ago, to which Mr Vehviläinen referred, is precisely because we want to be careful and not suddenly leave without a more detailed analysis to redefine these issues. So I hope that especially the representatives of the government parties will now take the message to their ministers that this kind of working group will be set up and evaluated on these issues, because these are not simple things, these are complex things, and we know that currently this backwardness for those who have retired in 95 or earlier will be 32 percent. They are big retards, and Mr Tanus here quite rightly pointed out that if mathematically we were to put 2.4 billion more into occupational pensions, then the government will immediately receive about a billion dollars from it and it will come directly to the Treasury. That mathematically it is a perfectly correct estimate, but whether it is feasible, then that is the point of this issue and the problem is because the future we do not know.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u186	Mr President! The real income of pensioners has fallen overall in recent years. The reason is national pension cuts, index cuts in 2015 and 2017 and index freezes in 2018 and 2019. The government has now promised to compensate for these weakenings. However, the most long-term and profound weakening of pension provision has been the so-called folded index of occupational pensions. Turning it back into a mid-term index would improve the real income of pensioners and effectively reduce the poverty of pensioners, as proposed and well justified in the legislative initiative under discussion. We could afford to improve pensions. This has already been proven in several speeches. When the earnings-related pension scheme was set up in 1962, pensions were linked 100% to wage developments. In the so-called mid-term index used since 77, the weighting of both earnings and price developments was 50 per cent. The mid-term index was applied to pension checks until the first Lipponen government, in 95, first cut — or folded — the employment pension index in such a way that the wage level only affects the annual pension index revisions by 20%. This means an increase in the level of earnings after retirement, in the low income of pensioners and in direct poverty. In the public debate, it is often argued that correcting the pension index as set out in the initiative would distort the distribution of income between pensioners and increase income disparities. In this context, it is a particular claim that the employment pension index is specifically about the distribution of income between employed and pensioners and its equalisation with this mid-term index, and this is what matters to the pensioner's livelihood. The purpose of earnings-related earnings-related earnings-related pension is to secure earned income during retirement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u189	Mr President! All of us here, and all of Finland, should be particularly grateful to Professor Teivo Pentikäinen and his team, who created an occupational pension scheme in Finland in the early 1960s. As a result, we have this EUR 205 billion funded, and that has given us this system, which has now been built up for most of our lifetimes. The result of Pent - age work also included the fact that at that time, 1963, occupational pensions were tied to a purely wage index. In other words, it was interpreted that the earnings-related pension is a deferred wage payment, which is then paid to the person who has been paid in employment and paid earnings-related pension contributions and then, when he retires and retires, receives that part of the wages he has saved. This was the case until the late 70s, when it was then established that the wage index would raise pensions faster than wages. This is a bit amazing, but this was actually the case and pensions rose quite briskly — and, of course, especially in terms of prices. Well, then, in the late 1990s of the recession, the Lipponen government decided to implement the transformation of this mid-index into a 20-80 index, and Kari Puro's Committee in the 21st century proposed that this system be permanent. First it was on the public side, and then it was confirmed in this Chamber that it applies to all sectors. I remember well when I was here. I was between 95 and 2000 in those years, and I did vote for pensioners, but I remained in the minority. Mr President! Since then, much has been said about this issue, but there has been no change in the way governments have changed. And the retardation of pensioners from the level that they should have had, in principle, according to the model they originally had, is significant and a fact today. But we don't have any permanent models. Indeed, the citizens' initiative two years ago was such that it proposed a return to the Pentian's original model, a 100 % wage tie, and I did not think that such a model was possible. In my opinion, this could have led to such a drastic decline in pension funds in a few decades that it would not have been entirely responsible. However, these legal initiatives, initiated by representatives of Elomaa and Kimmo Kiljunen, are excellent. Both are viable, both have good elements and both favour small, medium-sized earnings-related pensions, as I believe they should be. If we go to this mid-term index in a normal way without these weightings, the high-income pensioners will benefit enormously, or at least much, in euros. Well, it is said that there are not very many of them, but on the other hand there is no need to increase pension differences in this way. That is why these models are justified and take us in the right direction. It has been mentioned here that pension funds have grown briskly. I checked that at the end of 2010 pension funds had EUR 136 billion and at the end of last year EUR 204 billion, roughly. In other words, the growth in eight years was EUR 68 billion, i.e. an average of over 8 billion per year. During the years of the economic downturn and the difficult economy — especially in the early part of this decade — unemployment was and still is high, but nevertheless these pension funds grew and, of course, a large part has come from investment returns. But more than 200 billion can afford in the funds. If this correction of the folded index were to give pensioners today a few billion — a billion, two, three — what these legislative initiatives would mean at most — then, since earnings-related pensions are taxable income, it would become a significant part of the tax revenue of the state and the municipalities, estimated at between 30 and 40 % of the total tax rate. In addition, it would go into purchasing power, which would benefit society through consumption through indirect taxes and, on the other hand, would inevitably also contribute to employment. It would therefore benefit the economy as a whole, i.e. a significant amount of pension funds would be transferred to the state and municipalities, which would then allow the services of pensioners to be developed and maintained. Mr President! The current government is going to increase the fuel tax, and its policy will lead to municipal taxes going up very much in almost the whole country during this parliamentary term. Consequently, taxation will be tightened and will also be paid by those who are still dependent on a pension with reduced purchasing power, and in this respect, too, it would be appropriate to introduce reforms to improve the position of pensioners. I'm not talking about national pensions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u190	Mr President! As in the previous speech by Mr Kankaanniemi, it was very clear that the backwardness of small pensions in particular is a serious social problem. This bill, drawn up by the representative of Elomaa and signed by several other representatives of the People’s Republic of Finland, for the correction of the folded index is therefore very well designed to correct this problem. In most cases, it is impossible for pensioners to increase their own income, and many of them also have to count each euro very accurately before the next day of payment. On the other hand, the necessary cost of living has risen very rapidly, and especially the cost of living causes problems for many low-income pensioners, especially in large growth centres. Small increases in the level of occupational pensions in recent years are far from sufficient to compensate for the increase in these necessary expenditures. In addition, the taxation of pensions in most income categories is clearly more stringent than the taxation of wage income and, as a result, the taxation of pensions and wages should be harmonised by reducing the taxation of pensions. Mr President! The fairness of the earnings-related pension system is quite rightly a source of ongoing civil dialogue, and many pensioners are very concerned about their financial income. There are problems with livelihoods, especially for the most low-income pensioners. Many people receiving a small pension have made a long and respectable career in a hard but low-paid job, where there has been little savings. In fact, Finns in Finland want to pay attention especially to people who have long worked in low-wage sectors, who receive a small pension, many of whom are women. Their income is very low — yet rents, electricity transmission prices, medicines and other mandatory cost of living are constantly increasing. The pension model of Finns, which is included in the Elomaa Act, would improve the position of these people in particular. Mr Kiljunen's bill is also a step in the right direction, although slightly different in content. Mr President! The indexation of all occupational pensions would naturally increase large pensions in euros more than small ones. However, in this bill drafted by Mr Elomaa, the model has been developed in a fair manner and provides for the mid-term index to be applied for the first EUR 1500 of the monthly pension income of each pensioner.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u191	Mr President! It has also been important that this debate has highlighted the fact that the earnings-related pension scheme differs from this other budgetary decision-making system. The occupational pension scheme and its funds are not part of the state budget, although of course the occupational pension scheme is considered to be part of the social insurance system, which operates in Finland. In due course, the decision-making process and the entire occupational pension scheme have been created in a triangular way by the social partners, with the government involved in the triad, and it is also appropriate to respect the triangular principle that, when the scheme is to be renewed and when resources are to be made available for occupational pensions, it makes sense that these consultations should be held through the trilogue. In this respect, the Government Programme has an important observation, which is ‘revolutionary’, a completelynewalintroduced that efforts are being made to clarify in the triangular position whether the occupational pension system can This is new. This is a whole new issue, and for the first time there is a desire to mobilise resources from the funds, and this is what we are trying to find out here. In this regard, I would like to make publicly the wish that, as in the 2013 report, which examined this folded index for the first time, the pensioner organisations should also be involved in the negotiations and discussions now taking place on the financing of this so-called Mayan crop. It's just the first step. The next step, of course, is to look at the entire occupational pension team — we have 1.3 million people over the age of 65 who are receiving an old-age pension — that is to say, to look at the whole group and the development of their income. I was somewhat surprised to hear Mr Sarkkinen say that if this mid-term index were to be introduced, it would lead to a drought in pension funds. We're going a little bit on a slogan that doesn't look at it all the way. His argument that the pension system must be fair across generations is absolutely right. It is quite clear that all pensions must be guaranteed in a fair way, not only for current pensioners but also for future beneficiaries. The fact that we are now going to talk about pension funds drying up with the introduction of this mid-term index seems overwhelming. He himself gave the figures to which I also referred: ten years after the introduction of this mid-term index, if it were introduced now, in 2030, the pension expenditure would be EUR 900 million higher than the current index, and 20 years later, in 2040, the pension expenditure would be EUR 1.8 billion higher than this index. How can we speak seriously in Parliament that we are drying up the funds when, according to the Finnish Centre for Pensions' own predictions, pension funds exceed EUR 400 billion in the 2040s and, from the time we go to the 2080s, the funds will grow to EUR 1500 billion? After all, this is absurd for the national economy to be dried up into funds, the vast majority of which, 70%, have been transferred abroad. We genuinely dry the Finnish economy into these pension funds instead of creating jobs. The increase in pensions is the most cost-effective stimulus that could be implemented in Finland. Even a small increase in pensions goes directly to consumer demand, and young people would get jobs. This is very important to note here all the time that, in fact, the increase in pensions at the moment is precisely the common interest of both young people and parents. Then it is good to know these basic figures. The Tela, the Joint Organisation for Occupational Pensions Insurance, has given the figures when it is calculated who the EUR 205 billion of pension savings over generations actually are, and it is worth noting that 65% of these funds, i.e. more than EUR 130 billion, are in fact the money of current pensioners and those who have just retired. It's for their savings. On average, a 65-year-old person lives 20 years, and the baby boomers have almost been retired for ten years, and they do not receive the euro for their pension savings, even through interest rates, for their own use. This is a strange situation. In any case, the funds will remain intact for future generations. The share of those born in the 60s is 20%, the share of those born in the 70s is 11%, and the proportion of young people born in the 80s and 90s is 3% and 50%. Young people must still be able to work so that they can increase their own contribution to the fund and thus ensure their own pension provision, and it is therefore unreasonable for young people too to simply transfer resources out, to impoverish pension beneficiaries legally and to find ourselves in a situation where even young people do not get to work. For earnings-related pension contributions: This has been raised all along to the risk that this kind of 100 million, 800 million or 1.8 billion euros in the amount of pension expenditure after 20 years would lead to increases in earnings-related pension contributions. Why? Why would you do that? How far do we want to grow these funds? What is the limit to which we come? There has now been reference to Teivo Pentik, who is the creator of this occupational pension scheme. He was in favour of the wage index, and even in 1955 he said that this should not be done to convert the wage index into a folded index. And another point that has been at the heart of it all along: Originally, when the funds were created, the aim was to fund resources in terms of two years' pension expenditure. In today's currency, it amounts to some EUR 50-60 billion. That has been the goal, and now we have 205 billion. This is an inexhaustible swamp of how far we are raising and drying up the national economy, impoverishing pensioners, and, at the same time, everyone internationally states that Finland's pension system is exceptionally strong and sustainable in financial terms. We will not be able to finance these smallest occupational pensions properly with the state budget, so we will have to mobilise the money that is earmarked for pensions, that is, the interest rates of these pension funds. None of us is talking about funds being dismantled and dried up. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u192	Mr President! There was talk of these names here, and I was wondering if my name had disappeared. I remember well when Mr Elomaa and I discussed the signature of this bill. As Mrs Lehto has said today, there has now been something strange here because names have apparently disappeared from one of these initiatives. But that's it. I can tell you that, my point of view. I find the poverty of pensioners and the struggle for income for middle-income earners shocking. Personally, I get a lot of contact from people and I know a lot of people who have to struggle every day to have enough money for food, medicine — to buy something extra for a grandchild sometimes, going on a trip is almost utopia, there is no money. The other night I was watching Hurst’s food line: There were a lot of pensioners there. There were young people, but there were very many pensioners, and it felt really bad. Sami Savio also spoke about this same issue. It particularly affects older women. Mainly a long career has been made, since the age of 15, sometimes younger, created a foundation for our generation and for this welfare society younger than us, a five-day working week has been fought. There's maternity leave, there's a lot of other things that maybe we all don't always remember. Now this generation will have to fight for it, as has been pointed out in previous speeches, that their money is not enough. For this reason, the True Finns often put a lot of things against each other. This is because things are opposite. We believe that when we share money from the same purse, we should first take care of the generations that have fought for us first of all for independence and then built us a welfare Finland. We owe them very much. It is also worth recalling that it was 2005, before which earnings earned under the age of 23 did not accumulate a pension. Even myself and certainly many in this Chamber are in a situation where they worked long hours at the time. This is one injustice that puts a strain on this generation, which is good to remember in this debate. When this citizens' initiative was in 2017 here in Parliament, I remember that Laura Huhtasaari and MP Laura Huhtasaari, the current European Parliamentarian in Finland, met with the staff or representatives of the Finnish Social Insurance Institution and asked if there ever was any thought that this pension index would somehow be considered progressively rising, that the folded index would be returned with some other thought, so that it would not always be constant, so that it would benefit smaller ones more than the big ones. The problem with these legislative initiatives is always little that it also hits those huge pensions. Although there are not many, but nevertheless — if there is a pension of between EUR 7000 and EUR 8000, perhaps it is not quite the kind of pit that those who most need it. At the time, in the referral debate, we asked the committee to clarify this, but when it came back, this had unfortunately not been clarified in any way, and nothing has been heard since. I myself was thinking about that parliamentary working group, and I thought it was valuable that Mr Kankaanniemi told me about that history. I didn't know this was done once and then buried. In the last parliamentary term, we also completed this kind of work programme for the Working Party on Poverty. We have these different operational programmes. In some ways, I see the fact that things can be clarified alongside this, but it cannot be that we are holding these working groups for so long that time will come to deal with the problems. People need that money now. It is easy for citizens to think that we always move things to all kinds of working groups for years and then there will be elections again and then there will be a new government and then there will be another ten years gone and nothing has happened. For this reason, for example, there will be the same types of things in the alternative budget for Finns, which we have had for the past few years. They would be quick to do, and also an association of Pensioners' Unions. Eetu has paid attention to them. That is why I hope that Mr Kiljunen, for example, will vote with us. We will now vote on these in December. We will have proposals for the taxation of pensioners — a quick instrument, which can be introduced next year. Depreciation of pharmaceutical liability, EUR 50 — can be introduced immediately. We would have to put a profit ceiling on the electricity companies — can be introduced. Tax exemption for informal care aid — can be introduced immediately. The customer fee caps can be combined — for quick use. This would be a big toolbox that would make it easier to be just about the day-to-day relationship with housing and medicine and treatment. And then, of course, it — I wonder if the representative spoke. Still screaming about that fuel tax increase? It does not quite fit the Finnish mentality that people who also need a car for, for example, health transport — as we have heard, health services are transferred a lot so that they have to go further than that. I can't do this. I hope that you will, as indicated in one of the speeches, also get Prime Minister Rinte and the whole government behind you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u193	Mr President! I have to admit, I'm afraid of getting old. How's the health holding up? Is there anyone who can take care of you when you're out of shape? Are you getting along? Pensioners are a part of the population which is in a discriminatory and unequal position. In 95 C.E. the folding index, which had been set temporary, came into force. To date, that folding index has not been restored and has caused growing, significant pensioner poverty. This is a very special phenomenon in a country that is considered a welfare state where everyone should be cared for. Another reason for pension poverty is taxation. Already at the average pension level, the pensioner pays a tax of EUR 20000 per year, according to the Tax Calculator of the Finnish Tax Association, 18.6 per cent, compared with 7.54 per cent of the corresponding earned income. So the difference is as much as 11.06 per cent. This means that the current age group pays EUR 2.5 billion more taxes on an annual basis than those who receive income from gainful employment. That's quite a difference. Mr President! The tax practice infringes Article 6 of Chapter 2 of the Constitution. That provision states that citizens must not be placed in a position of inequality with each other, inter alia on the basis of age. Poverty is a fairly subcutaneous process. It can be easily expressed on the Dickens scale: when the income is 10 and the expenses are 9.5, life smiles, and when the income is 9.5 and expenses 10, life is one nightmare — and too many pensioners have a daily life that is exactly what it is. There are one and a half million pensioners. Half of them have difficulties in making a living, one third have all the money spent on necessary expenses, ten percent have serious problems with living — it is about 150,000 people. So it's not just a small group that's doing really badly. I do not think there is any point in looking for those responsible for this in this Chamber. We're all equally guilty. It is our duty to put this right, to finally do something about it, because that is what we are paid for. Old age must not mean poverty. Mr President! Of course, there are many ways of remedying this. The Convention's medicines are the setting up of a parliamentary working party to examine the sustainability of the pension system and the purchasing power of pensioners. The shopping basket for pensioners must reflect the real costs. The employment rate needs to be raised and the tax burden on pensioners needs to be reduced. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u194	Mr President! Many very good speeches have been made here. I was thinking here about the costs of these index issues and the changes to the mid-term index and the sustainability of the pension system, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, Tela and the GTK, on the other, as if, let me say, the intimidation e-mail were read through, and I wonder that when some decisions are taken in this Chamber, what other decisions and laws we think are going to be clubbed in that rock for the next 60 or 80 years. After all, we are assessing and monitoring situations, the economy, pension matters, index issues each year and per parliamentary term, and changes can be made at a very high rate in this Chamber. But when we talk about occupational pensions and this pension system, then it feels as if we are just talking about snorting something and swearing that it will take the next 60 or 80 years as if it were no longer allowed to be interfered with. This is so amazing. Of course, the taxation of pensioners must be corrected. There are flaws in relation to employees. There is no doubt that a common ceiling must be obtained, and many other changes, as has been mentioned today, should be made to pensioners. With regard to this mid-term index and occupational pensions, we can anticipate the future, but we know history. It has been intimidated by the retirement of the baby boomers and by changing the mid-term index and how the system will last. If we think about it, there were 80,000 retired pensioners in 2009 and yet the funds have been growing. If the mid-term index had been extended back then to 95, 96 and here, then according to calculations we would still have EUR 160 billion in funds, and if initially the wage index, which was originally there, had been extended, it would have been in use all these years, then we would still have an average income of more than EUR 100 billion in those funds. From 95 to 2018, pension expenditure has doubled, but pension funds have increased sixfold. For a couple of decades, the average return on funds has been EUR 7 8 billion per year. If the mid-term index were to be restored, it would cost around one billion, but the average increase in funds would still be seven billion. So, if we spent one billion dollars a year on these funds, then more than one billion would increase each year. With average returns and population projections, the RD has decreased the situation for decades and, according to the GTK, in 2085 we have around 5.1 million inhabitants, of which about two million are employed and 1.7 million are pensioners. At that time, it has been thought that pension contributions would be around 15 million lower than paid occupational pensions, and pension contributions could be much more smaller. But the profits of the increased funds would be 23 billion a year, even if we were thinking only of a three and a half percent return. It surprises me when we think of the messages of the ETSC and Tela and the information they have gathered, that it is often there that, for example, they are intimidated by the rise in these occupational pension contributions and everything else like that, but it is rarely there that the same papers show how much these pension funds are estimated to grow. Because, indeed, as Mr Kiljunen has already done with merit, as many others have done in the past, if we think that, in 2065, even with a moderate return of less than 4%, pension funds would amount to around six and a half billion and in 2085 to a thousand billion, and if we think that in 95 the funds were four times higher than the pensions paid, then in 2085 — and precisely according to the estimates of the Centre for Pensions — the funds will be ten times higher than the pensions. It really does wonder what sense we have to store and expand these funds, while they are, for the most part, still being invested abroad, when we could take a small slice of the profits of their growing funds and use them here to increase the well-being of our own economies and pensioners. We have clever pensioners who have also written to me that does not the current government realise that they could increase tax revenue even without raising taxes, and precisely so that the folded index would be removed, the mid-term index would be introduced, occupational pensions would be raised, and there would really be those tax revenues in the common purse, and they could partly pay for these necessary increases in national pensions or guaranteed pensions and many other things that our elderly people, pensioners and their well-being would require today. That is why I am surprised at this intimidation and I wonder when it is said that when you do not know what is happening to the funds and whether they are going to last or whether this system is going to last. After all, after these changes, we can monitor the situation every year, evaluate every two, three, four years, and if it appears that something disastrous is happening in the world, then we can adopt a new law, as we do in this Chamber every week.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u195	Mr President! There has been a very important debate and a good debate today on pensioners and the mid-term index. Raised guarantees and national pensions: Government raises them a little, very good thing. I'd have to lift a lot more than that. But that's a good thing. But since today we are really talking about these occupational pensions, I am now focusing on that in my speech. The income of those who have participated in the construction of our well-being must also be taken care of after the end of their working lives. The situation of low-income pensioners is becoming very worrying. The bread lines are growing, and there are also an increasing number of older women. I would particularly like to highlight the situation of women who have worked a long career on a low wage. Many have gone to work in 14 summers, worked a long day, often a six-day working week for dozens of years, and the pension may be about EUR 1300. Would it not be right and reasonable for society to provide them and all pensioners with a small pension with an adequate level of income, even for what is absolutely necessary for their daily lives? It is also a question of fairness. And it is a matter of value choice for the government: when money is put into circulation and budgets are made, what is the money spent on? Who are now in a position to put more money into improving their life situation? Quite a lot of older people, though. A lot has also been said about pension funds today. It's known they're getting bigger and bigger. There's over 200 billion in there. I would like this to be clarified very carefully. Somehow I feel that such a small veil of secrecy is not now but the veil of uncertainty is around pension funds. Since they are growing all the time, I would see that it could be possible to remove some billions and head for low-income pensioners. Why could this not be possible? And yet, of course, it must be borne in mind that future pensions for future workers and our young people will not, of course, be put at risk. But I think there'd be something there. Those who are now retired have made it possible for us today to have this welfare society. They've earned it so you can give them something more. The guilt, too, has been some, that older people are just an item of expenditure and are being blamed on them. It's a shocking speech. Such a talk would immediately need to be made of boys — it is obscene. Representatives Kankaanniemi, Savio, Meri and Lehto put forward a basic Finnish line to improve the situation of low-income pensioners in their speeches. Representative Meri still identified a great many of the measures that the Finns of Finland will present in their future shadow budget. And it's a sustainable one, it's not a woo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo. Thank you for that. Of course, there is Kiljunen here, including the author of this second bill, Aittakumpu and Tanus. Looks like S.H.I.E.L.D.'s already gone. Thank you, too, for still being here, because it is a very important matter. There's still a few people in the paper. I wish this bill, which most of the Finns have signed and the rest had probably signed, but when not everyone is there, it may be that someone’s name will be omitted. I'd remember seeing the name of the sea there, but I have to check it out. He too has worked very hard on these matters. I hope that this will now stimulate the debate to the point that results and actions will also come. And now that we are probably voting on these initiatives, I hope that all the initiatives that will lead to an improvement in the situation of pensioners, especially pensioners with low incomes, will receive support. And thank you very much for this bill. I hope this produces fruit. Thank you all!
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u196	If possible, ladies and gentlemen, let us try to keep the speeches as close as possible. Today we will have to suspend the proceedings by 20 a.m. and the sitting will have to decide that this will then be brought to committee before November.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u197	Mr President! Just as Mr Elomaa said, we have now had a very diverse and interesting debate on the livelihoods of pensioners on a number of occasions. I have listened to this with interest and I believe that I have learned something new from this very complex question. Many speakers have now referred to and talked about these increases in pensions decided by the government, which are indeed about the guarantee pension and national pension. I would also like to say that it has been particularly important for us in the centre that we should now be able to target those increases on the lowest-income pensioners and in this way reduce pensioner poverty. This national pension increase is now fully EUR 34 per month and the guaranteed pension will receive an increase of EUR 50 from the beginning of next year, and these increases will affect more than 600,000 Finnish pensioners in total. It is a very large group, in whose everyday life these increases will now be felt quite significantly. Perhaps I wonder if these increases in pensions that the government is now making are being underestimated in any way, because they are, however, very important. I myself know that the euro, even the euro, can and does matter to many people, and yet we are talking about increases in the tens. It is very valuable that we now receive those increases for these low-income pensioners. The government has also made sure that these increases in pensions are taken into account in such a way that they do not have a significant impact on housing support, but are fully taken into account for these pensioners receiving a guarantee pension and a national pension. These improvements really do come in handy, but the debate we are having now is very valuable and important, and it is quite clear that these increases in pensions are not enough, but much needs to be done. And just as has been well mentioned in this debate, for so many pensioners, it is absolutely crucial to make it difficult to live in everyday life because living is expensive in many ways: medical and healthcare fees, medical costs — living in other ways is quite expensive. And, perhaps on many occasions, in sparsely populated areas and a little further away from the centres, it becomes even more evident that the cost of living is considerable, and that is why we must, in particular, now think extensively about various solutions to improve the situation of pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u198	Mr President! I would also like to remind you that pensions are made up of the work of an employee. Every earnings-related pension is strictly tied to the length of the working life and to the accrual of pensions. Legally and morally, pension is a pension paid by a pensioner during his or her working life. It is, as it were, a deferred salary transferred to the Funds, a part of the salary which is transferred by common accord to be paid as a pension. The pension contributions collected from these salaries cover almost all pensions received during the entire duration of this earnings-related pension scheme. Over the last few years, the revenue from the funds has also been used, but to a very small extent. The funds themselves have not had to be tampered with at all, and they have grown: since the mid-1990s they have increased sixfold to that amount of over EUR 200 billion. At the same time, pension expenditure has only doubled — funds have increased sixfold, expenditure has only doubled. After all, employees pay an average pension contribution of around 7 per cent and employers slightly below 12 per cent. Until 92 C.E., occupational pension contributions were paid only by employers. While employers' share in this contribution is higher than that of employees, it must therefore be borne in mind that pensions are part of the value added created by work, crystallised work, formally paid by an employee or employer. Moreover, the fact that some pensions can be paid from pension funds, or specifically from funds, does not change this basic issue. The value transferred from funds or their output to pensions is part of the value added of the national economy created by work. Although, in the current situation, this process of value added in terms of income from funds is already quite global, as has been pointed out here. Most of the investments in the funds are abroad, 70 per cent. As far as occupational pension contributions are concerned, it seems that employers are seeking a lighter liability, and perhaps here, Mr Eestilä's speech on this matter also referred a little to it. It is worth remembering that the earnings-related pension scheme has been saved in many other ways than this folded index, which is now presented as the mid-term index. For example, since 2010, pensions have been reduced by an annual increase in life expectancy. For example, in 2030 it will already reduce pensions by almost 10%. The pension reform, which entered into force in 2017, increased the retirement age and reduced the pension accumulations of older age groups. Early retirement has been reduced, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u199	Mr President! I too would like to thank colleagues for the debate that has taken place. To be precise, I assume that Mr Elomaa, like myself, has had the main objective of this initiative in general, that we are discussing this occupational pension scheme, that we are discussing pension funds, that we are discussing this statutory impoverishment of pensioners, so that we can open each other's eyes. That's the most important thing. I also think that these various speeches are very good, as we have been going through today. Mr Meri already left, but he regretted that his name was missing from some initiatives. It may be a blunder if it concerns Mrs Elomaa's initiative, but it has been known for my initiative. He signed another bill that I have taken, which has not yet been handed over, to stop private parking supervision, that is what he signed. I think he made a little mess of his own side. On the other hand, Mr Elomaa made a very good point about the big issue, which is the starting point for this whole case. We have an excellent pension system for financial sustainability, but the pension system will not be successful if 40% of the customers of bread queues are pensioners. Pensions must guarantee basic income for older people, and that is not what the current pension system does. If the statistically largest single group of customers in bread queues is the elderly, someone is seriously wrong. In that sense, Mrs Elomaa raised it very well. That is the big challenge that we are discussing here, and on top of that challenge is the fact that the older the pensioner becomes, the poorer he becomes. So we're punishing people for getting older. Seven per cent of 65-year-olds are below the poverty line; it is average for all Finns. When a person is over 75 years of age, there are already 22% below the poverty line, and when you go to over 85 years of age, there are 30% below the poverty line, and nearly half of the 100-year-olds who have not been properly recorded but are visible are below the poverty line. The older people get, the poorer they get. Perhaps sarcastic happiness is that no 110-year-olds living below the poverty line have been recorded in Finland. The problem is solved by nature, not by social policy, and we in this Parliament are now making decisions so that we can solve this problem and take it seriously: the impoverishment of pensioners in the way they get older. Some speakers referred to this working group which, following the 2011 elections, was set up to assess the employment pension index system. Some may not have been fully aware of the fact that the report went into the rubbish bin. It didn't go into the trash can at all. The 2013 report did not support the repeal of the folded index. Representatives of pensioners' organisations left a different opinion there that the index should be 30-70 instead of 20-80. It was a different opinion, but otherwise the report was not in favour of changing the index. In that sense, it did not lead to what it wished for. Then there has been a lot of talk here that younger generations today pay more employment pension contributions than previous generations. This is a fact — this is a fact. They pay higher occupational pension contributions, but they pay much lower income tax than previous generations. Admittedly, the life-time factor is based on the fact that younger people work longer, but they also start working later than previous generations. There was also reference to the fact that in previous generations until 2005 pension accumulation began only when man was 23 years old, although many began working at the age of 15. People now start later and then live longer and work longer, so a systematic comparison of this kind across generations is unnecessary, completely unnecessary. The essential thing is that everyone performs their statutory obligations and everyone is guaranteed that earnings-related earnings-related pension, as is the case for everyone. Then there's been one big question: forecasts. In the public debate, we are in a strange situation where facts that are only known to us in the past are not taken seriously. Instead, we are building on all the predictions, the predictions that extend up to 2080, and these predictions become facts for this public debate. Every single economist knows that no serious economic research institute ever makes predictions for more than 20 years. Trust intervals become so vague that it makes no sense to predict even rough predictions so far. We are having a serious debate on the situation in 2070 and so on. The only statistics that could be stable to some extent, and that too is unreliable, are population projections. With regard to ageing, demographic statistics are interesting in that we have just received Statistics Finland's recent population forecast, to which the Finnish Centre for Pensions refers and which tells us what is the increase in the number of people aged over 65 in Finland. It is the following, now quite statistically, that the fact is this: 1995 Finland had about 700,000 people over the age of 65, then it was 14 per cent of the total population. Today there are 1.2 million people over the age of 65, which means that half a million have increased the number of people over the age of 65. From now on, in 2070 — this figure was already heard from Mr Tanus — it is 1.7 million. So in the next 50 years there will be an increase of half a million people over the age of 65, which we have just experienced in our own lifetime in this last 25 years. We have endured this drastic change, that is, the retirement of the baby boomers. At the same time, the funds have grown nicely — partly in the sense that the current pensioners are really getting poorer, and that is where we are. This unnecessary intimidation of the fact that the dependency ratios are deteriorating, that the population is ageing, is, as it were, a huge load for Finnish society, is absurd. At the moment, 100 000 people over the age of 65 are in paid employment, and when we go to 2070, we are certainly in a situation where the employment rate for those over the age of 65 is completely different from today. We must not start to build on such predictions on the decisions that apply to today's pensioners. Our current pensioners are entitled to their earned income,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u200	Mr President! I have asked to speak again to raise the issue of pensioner poverty in particular, because I see that, when we talk about Finland as a welfare state, we cannot really speak of Finland as a welfare state if we have hundreds of thousands of pensioners below or near the poverty line. And just as has already been pointed out here, 7 % of the 65-year-olds and 30 % of the 85-year-olds are under the poverty line, so, of course, these increases in guaranteed pensions and national pensions are also needed, and in the alternative budgets of the Christian Democrats they have been and are – they are indeed needed. Of course, we are grateful that the government has already done some of them, but more and more can be done. Similarly, we have pension income reductions in the alternative budget and so on. But why is this situation? One big reason is indeed in the folded index made in 96, because the original earnings-related pension for those who have remained on occupational pensions has fallen after 22 years of purchasing power in proportion to the current average wage, and its purchasing power is only 30 per cent. If that change had not been made then, i.e. the folded index would not have gone, but the mid-term index would have been extended, then we would have better pensions and there would not be such a number of pensioners below the poverty line as there is today. Various measures are needed, and I would also like to thank all pensioners on behalf of them for this good and varied debate, and also thank the authors of the legislative initiatives aimed at removing the folded index. But I would like to see many of the measures needed to improve the livelihood and well-being of our pensioners really taken. I see it in that way that it is, above all, a matter of attitude and will. If we have a strong enough will and cooperation, then we really have the opportunity to take more measures, and we have the opportunity to do them at a very rapid pace. And to take such measures that we really have the opportunity to take care of these elderly people, who have largely built up the welfare of this country, laid the foundations for it and worked extremely hard, long hours, and have not called for many services then years and decades ago. I can see that it is not only our privilege, but it is also our duty and honour to care for these elderly people — our distinguished citizens, pensioners in such a way that they have valuable old age and can safely grow old. But thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u201	Mr Kiljunen, if you have the floor for three minutes, we will have time for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-24-ps-56.u202	My speech is less than three minutes, I promise. — I wanted to make a further speech of thanks here. We thanked each other for a good debate, and I also think that this was a good debate. I would like to raise one representative here in particular, and he is Sari Tanus, Vice-President of the Finnish Seniority Movement. As chairman of the Senior Movement, I can say that we have worked hard together on this issue. We already have a great group of parliamentarians across the party lines, and I hope that this is something that is not party politics, but that we all recognise the problem that exists. We have resources, and pensioners are unnecessarily impoverished in this regard, and that is something that can be resolved. It is indeed, as Mr Tanus said, a matter of political will, and politics is a matter of possible skill. It is our joint task across party boundaries to do this.
