ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 21/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u2	Mr President! This is a criminal law based on the EU directive, which will be the subject of two new articles on the abuse of EU funds by a Member of Parliament. The fact that, according to the report received by the Committee on Legal Affairs, it is not possible for a Member of Parliament to commit such new crimes under any circumstances. Consequently, a situation in which the characterisation of a new crime would be fulfilled cannot be fulfilled. The Finns cannot accept [Fresh—The President-in-Office] These new articles were justified in such a way that they are necessary for the implementation of the EU Directive. The background is problems with the misuse of EU funds managed by MPs in some Eastern European countries. Parliament's authority is weakened by the fact that the adoption of criminal law becomes purely EU policy-making and new provisions in the criminal code are laid down in a manifest way, in complete violation of legal rationality. Our line is that Finland's criminal law should not be given directly to the European Union's decision-making powers, as was done in this case. It may be considered quite unusual that the government's proposal would provide for the abuse of EU funds and the gross act of such funds in the Criminal Code as a separate section, but not the corresponding abuse of national funds. Indeed, the other parties act exactly as the EU says, even if the orders do not make any sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u3	Mr President! Of course, it is very interesting that the Finns themselves do not want to be involved in the fight against corruption in Europe. I believe that this is a very strange attitude that we cannot jointly contribute to the adoption of legislation that will enable a proper fight to be fought against corruption in the political system in the EU countries, if any. This does not conflict with our own legislation. It has only required that we specifically mention this criminal activity, and in that sense I do not see that this is a distinction between big and small. Finland also disappears by increasing corruption in Europe, and in that sense this is also very much in the interest of Finns to fight corruption in Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u4	Madam President! This legislation is mainly made for the needs of the EU. I do not remember whether Mr Tavio was involved in Romania, for example, when the Committee on Legal Affairs took a visit there. There we could even see terrible examples of corruption. With this, we want to ensure that legislation is in place in certain countries in the EU, i.e. that this deliberate misuse of EU funds can be prevented. It really is in the interests of all of us. In that, Mr Tavio is absolutely right that at the moment, fortunately, there is no example in the Republic of Finland of how we parliamentarians could be guilty of violating this law — fortunately so — but we do not know the future. If we come here with the EU funds that we can use in a certain way and someone is going to abuse them -- that is, this willfulness is precisely raised, not just a bad one, not even a basic one, but an increased one -- then we must also be prepared for the future. This legislation in the Republic of Finland is not from anyone, that is to say from no one. It is good this kind of legislation to combat corruption, financial crime to be ready if something really bad happens, but above all this is important in the EU region so that we can get certain countries in control and order when it comes to misappropriation of EU funds. It is in the interests of all of us, including our Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u5	Madam President! I understand Mr Tavio's way of thinking on this point, but I do not understand why this should not be accepted now, because this key message is that Finland wants to be strict about how EU money is being spent. I have had the opportunity to visit the European Fraud Service in Olaf, which deals with these frauds within the EU, several times, and when it profiles who is the potential fraudster within the EU and the misuse of these funds, it unfortunately refers to high-ranking EU officials and parliamentarians. So they are the most likely fraudster with their own know-how and then with their vulnerability to corruption. I think it is very important that this issue is adopted today and that it is possible to tighten up the controls in this way. For example, just as Mr Tolvanen mentioned here when we visited Romania, it turned out that there were 20 billion EU subsidies, of which only 6 billion had gone to their destination. There is a need for a firmer grip on these issues, and here comes the grip.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u6	Mr President! This conversation is now beginning to sound rather strange. The committee has visited Romania to see that there is corruption in Romania, although everyone knows that there is corruption in Romania without even going there. And now that there is corruption in Romania, there is a law in Finland that will now reduce that corruption in Romania. I do not quite understand this process of thinking which the committee and the government have had in this proposal. In his speech, Mr Tolvanen admitted that Mr Tavio's speech was correct: in the interests of certainty, legislation would be adopted without a national basis. This doesn't make any sense. In addition, these comments by the representative: Mr Tavio raised this point, and I would like to add it - correct it now if I am wrong - that I personally understand this in such a way that, if this law were adopted now, the use of EU funds would be regulated more strictly than the use of national funds. In other words, we would be more precise with regard to EU funds than with regard to the money of the Finnish people. Can this interpretation be correct, and if it is correct, how can this be so?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u7	Mr President! It is a fact that there are significant corruption problems in some EU countries. They are in Romania, Bulgaria, Greece and probably Hungary as well. I also had the opportunity to visit Olaf there to see the Finnish President and CEO Ville Itälä, and it is quite clear from there that Olaf needs more support and more opportunities for action in order to deal with the abuse of EU funds that is taking place in different countries. And yes, I think it is in Finland's interest now, because we are still net contributors to this EU activity, in addition to that,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u10	Mr President! The use of common funds must be particularly careful, whether at national or EU level. The chairman and vice-chairman of the Legal Committee have already in a very sense responded to Mr Tavio's criticism, with which the Finns of Finland have now returned to the EU's critical line, which, in this case, was not a cause for concern at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u11	Madam President! Mr Mäkelä, we are watching our own money, just as Mr Satonen described well here. In fact, I would have thought that the basic Finns, as European critics — whom I myself am, by the way, say that I am very critical of the EU — support such legislation, which specifically monitors the money that Finland is giving to the EU. Then I will say that legislation can be proactive. It is one of its nature, as it were, to prepare for a future danger. Let us now give the Finnish Ville Itälä a very good piece of work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u12	Mr President! During the years when I was a Member of the European Parliament, there were some contacts from the Finns about things they had seen, for example, while travelling in Romania, with these scandalous contacts, which suggested that something should not be done about these matters. I am surprised that someone in the Finnish Parliament is opposed to measures that can also be taken in Finland through concerted action by EU countries to curb corruption. As many of my fellow Members have already said, it is the EU's money that is ours.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u13	Mr President! My main criticism was this, because criminal law has the principle of the criminalization of the ultima ratio and that it should only be punishable if it is a last resort. In this situation, I think it is quite clear that it should be considered that the national implementation of the directive is sufficient for a Member of Parliament not to be able to administer EU funds in Finland at all. In Finland, this should not be put into the personal hands of MPs either. As Mr Tolvanen said there, if such a theoretical possibility were to come in the future, then theoretically this theoretical EU legislation would apply here in Finland. Personally, I am not in favour of making criminal law on such an EU-based and theoretical basis. On the other hand, corruption itself is a subject on which Parliament should certainly discuss much more seriously even in the run-up to the elections, because Finland often has a reputation as a completely corrupt country, partly depending on how the international list of countries is made. Personally, I would see that this listing is largely too favourable for Finland and does not correspond to the reality of what is happening in Finland, because Finnish corruption is more of a hidden crime that does not just come up, and it also has very difficult screen problems, because when planning is decided in the municipal sector, these things are often agreed behind closed doors, and then money usually changes the owner at some point. It would certainly be a good thing if, as a result of this, electoral funding were to become accounting duty and the publicity of these documents, and more so for the parties, because it bothers me when it comes to the election declarations of the candidates that they have received funding from the party, but then it does not really follow at all where the party funding actually comes from when, for example, the centre has received election support from Attendo and apparently also in the assembly, the party has received election support from large-scale health waste — as well as this so-called round door phenomenon of the assembly and now, recently, Minister Berner's transition to the Swedish bank, where it has been proposed as an alternative to the transition of politicians to work in the private sector. I believe that all these are issues of corruption that should really be tackled in Finland and not just the act of legislation because of Romania's problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u14	Mr President! However, Mr Tavio has not been very interested when we have discussed the state of the rule of law in Poland. Even then, I understand that you have not thought that Finland should intervene, and it may be that there is a slightly different view here as to whether European matters are common or not. However, organised crime, corruption, the erosion of the rule of law in the various EU countries also affects us all in the end. It also means that it is really difficult for the economy to operate in different countries, because it cannot be trusted that the systems are such that they treat us all equally. That is why it is very important that we also try to give to the EU. If you criticise the EU, if you do not give the EU the instruments we agreed together to combat these problems and crime, then it will be quite empty.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u15	Madam President! That's right. The European Anti-Fraud Office, its work, must be effective and must also have the means to act. The effectiveness of its work has not always been the best possible. President! I would also like to draw attention to the fact that Mr Tavio's criticism of the EU is very selective. For Finns, an EU card is good if you have to dump the dirt, but then you don't see any problems in the situation in Poland or Hungary. On the other hand, incorrect information on the activities of other parties is being disseminated, and you have been spreading it in Question Time and just now. I do not think it is very good, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u16	Mr President! In this debate on the EU, I would like to say that the question is that if Finland were to do wrong now, it could be a fall of hundreds of millions for the Finnish people. That is the bill that the Finns of Finland want to avoid by taking this matter into account. That's all it's about. Now that more than one representative raised the issue of the rule of law in Poland and Hungary compared to Romania, I think there is a structural difference between them and the fact that the debate on the rule of law in Poland and Hungary is of a political nature. The fact that those countries are being accused of the problems of the rule of law is based on a political basis, on an ideological basis, on the fact that their governments are implementing a policy that is unacceptable to the European elite, and that is why they are being tried to punish them by means of a political rule of law process, whereas in the case of Romania, for example, the question of corruption is probably genuine at a fictitious level, which is where corruption is to be tackled. Now, however, a number of speeches here seem to address corruption in Romania in such a way as to turn Finnish criminal law into a sort of stick horse and a plaything in this matter. I cannot understand this idea, which is the source of this logic.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u17	Mr President! It has now been discussed whether the Finns are EU-critical or what we really are. We have often said in our programmes and speeches that we are opposed to the federal development that is taking place in certain areas, and that is precisely the transfer of powers. We have very individual circumstances here, and what applies to certain, perhaps corrupt, countries and what applies to us is two different things. There was also talk of social reform. This is indeed a question of, as Mr Mäkelä said, if this system is changed and subsequently found to be contrary to EU law, we will, or may be, lose hundreds of thousands of euros. Perhaps the biggest problem is that there is no system to go back to. I have told you here in the Chamber that it is all right for the people of Peru to take the logical line that the government now seems to have, that it is being treated in an over-the-board manner and that it is being thought this way, as the representatives here say, that there is no question of the EU. Let us not ask, but when the decision comes that your system is contrary to EU law, it is said that we do not comply with it. Then let us be consistent to the end in that attitude. It is all right for us to try those limits of EU law at times, but obviously none of the parties in the government has said, at least until now, that if we have a negative solution, we would not follow it. But if we take the risk of not following that decision together, how do you feel about this? Shall we go all the way to that line? Yes, we are prepared to try it because it feels that the structures will not change if they are not shaken. I welcome the fact that Mr Tavio is considering these issues in many different ways, and it seemed very reasonable to me that representatives should not have such funds at all. It seemed kind of crazy to me that it could be at all. But it's a good thing we're discussing these, and we need to talk. Please answer me: shall we go along with this line, and let us begin to refer back to these decisions of EU law, to try borders?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u18	Mr President! In response to Mr Biaudet's question about Poland — perhaps Mr Ala-Nissila, who has spoken since me, can contribute to the response of the Polish friendship group — the problem is that the European Union and the The question of Poland is therefore not at all comparable to this corruption problem in Romania at hand, but as far as Poland is concerned, it is a question of how far a third country can say about the situation in another country, what it is about. Here in Parliament, when this matter was also dealt with in the Committee on Legal Affairs, there was by no means a Polish representative, and this is a little difficult legislation just because one should always hear the other side in all matters. It should be a very comprehensive principle in legislation. It has now become the case that the EU has, as it were, conducted its consultation with Poland and here in Finland, once again, has no role in our EU policy other than that rubber stamp for EU regulations. I even called the leading officials at the Ministry of Justice and asked them how detailed they know about this matter in Poland, and yes, the answer was rather that it is not even in their interest to investigate these issues in the whole of Poland, because they are being investigated in the EU and then we are being sent to them with ready options for change, which we will then decide on in favour of the EU. And in my personal view, there was a problem with the rule of law in the Polish Supreme Court, but it was actually corrected by Poland. I am sure that this international pressure, which I think is quite desirable, played a role in this. If there are serious problems in the legal system of a country in the EU, this is the right way to act: through discussion and through international pressure to get it right. That is what we should hope to do. But instead, the EU wants to be much stronger with weapons. It wants to intervene directly with its own power and its funding by regulating and blackmailing these governments of democratically elected countries. And this is very serious for the EU to intervene in this way, in my view, in the internal policies of the nations intended to be independent. The reason for this is that it is often seen that it is precisely the policies of countries that are nationalistic or EU-critical, as is well seen in the EPP now in the case of a coalition that wants Hungarian Orbán out of it precisely because this is nationalist. But I would just like to ask you the question that, when one side of European law is on one side, what if, for example, in the European elections, nationalists are going to take a crushing victory in the EU: will you then be:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u19	Mr President! Of course, Finland complies with the agreed provisions, which will ultimately be resolved by the EU Court of Justice. But when we have issues that are in national competence, then we try to deal with them nationally, and if there is any doubt as to whether there are problems in EU regulations, then first Finland must make its own proposal and take it through with great determination, as has been done at the Ministry of Transport, light cars and others and even this winter time has been taken care of. If we start by asking EU officials in advance that there are problems, then they will probably find problems already on their behalf to protect their backs. But this way for Finns and others to ask the EU for a statement on such matters as national competence — where the EU does not even want to make a statement, as we have heard — is indeed an attempt at the EU itself. But that's what I'm going to be surprised to see is that the EU card is good enough, like the Soviet card, when it serves its own interests, but the national interests are forgotten.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u20	Mr President! It is precisely on this issue that we are dealing with today: it is not a supranational issue of this kind, but it is precisely a question of a joint decision in the EU to have national control over the funds which will then be allocated in the EU, i.e. to the EU countries for jointly agreed purposes. In that sense, of course, one way of making sure that every country controls these funds and tackles the problems is by jointly deciding that everyone should take steps in the same way if there is a problem. It is true, of course, that we are fortunate that our constitutional system is such that Members do not direct the money to the regions or so. That is a very good thing, but there is no harm in this either, and it is vital that we find ways, for example, within the various EU countries, to take the right measures to combat corruption. In this situation in Poland, however, there was a very multilateral order in which both the Council of Europe and others had intervened, and at the end of the day, the EU Court of Justice could also be turned, because the criteria of the rule of law were being dismantled. In that sense, it may sound like a matter of principle, but it is also very much a practical issue for the EU as a whole and for the economy of the EU region. No company can invest in another country where it cannot be trusted that the court will treat you impartially.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u21	Mr President! We may have strayed a little from this, but I would nevertheless like to comment on that situation in Romania. Mr Biaudet, I think Romania should never even have been accepted as an EU country. Their human and animal rights are a model that I do not understand how it can be an EU country at all. Maybe we should have discussed it more then. Representative Ala-Nissilä said that the Finns have spoken about this EU-notification, which is a difficult concept. So the Constitutional Committee has spoken unanimously about it, and we have interpreted the matter — I myself am a member of the Constitutional Committee — and this is the concern we have been raising for a long time. The representatives of your party have also been involved in this unanimous statement. In other words, it is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has drawn attention to this and called for certainty in this situation. You might want to get to know it. It has now been displayed in many media, i.e. it is a pity that you have obviously missed it, that it is not really a motion from the Finns of Peru, but a unanimous statement from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u22	Madam President! It is extremely important for us to be able to control, just as our own funds are controlled, including the use of EU funds. In that sense, one might say that promoting all this transparency and good governance should definitely be most welcome. In the light of this economic crisis in Europe, one can say that it was mainly a wake-up call to many Member States to understand how important it is to stick to every single tax euro and, for example, to be able to better control the overpayment of taxes by large companies in a country. All in all, this kind of transparency, this kind of transparency increase, can only be worthwhile and take forward. In fact, what has been disrupted all along by the use of EU funds is that there has been too little ability to assess their effectiveness. For example, I remember from my own mepsies that when certain targets, such as the improvement of the living conditions of the Roma in Eastern Europe, were allocated certain targeted amounts of money, it was extremely difficult to determine whether the money had been spent at all on what it was intended for.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u25	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 36/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u26	Madam President! This very emotion and the sense of justice of the citizens and the accompanying motion is now finally here in the Chamber. The proposal therefore concerns the adaptation pension for MPs, the adjustment allowance. The chairmen of the parliamentary groups put forward a unanimous motion to make the system fairer. I believe that this is also in line with the expectations of the public as to how, when his work here ends, a representative of Parliament can really adapt back to society. There are a wide range of adaptors: there are those who sit for one season or perhaps only two years, and then there are those who sit for more than 20 years. For many it may be that the skills acquired, the sector from which this work has come, have already changed its shape, grown, moved on so much that it is impossible to return to that former work, and that is why such a system has been built. This proposal is now quite balanced, although I think it has clear shortcomings which I am also making known here. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers it justified that all Members of Parliament should be covered by a similar system of benefits after their term of office. In considering this post-adaptive life, account has been taken of the impact of various other benefits on this adjustment allowance, and unfortunately one thing that is quite significant is missing: it would have been important to provide more precisely for income that reduces or does not reduce the adjustment allowance, and for example, I am now raising a very important issue which is a meeting fee for municipal trust. It should have been clearly recorded as a result that does not reduce the adjustment allowance or reduce the adjustment allowance — a lump sum. This is now at the discretion of the tax authorities, and we can all know what the tax authority will propose in this matter shortly. Now that there is this obligation to declare this adjustment allowance and the associated income to the Keva region, this is the constant practical situation in which, if I am quite specific, every month I have to declare what kind of income and rewards I have received from my municipal trust, and this will become a heavy procedure. I therefore hope that we can return to this issue with a more precise definition in some context. And then, in all fairness, it must be said that somehow, from those who have made a long career in this Parliament, whose parliamentary work is capable of ministerial periods and so on, this proposal does take an excessive amount and should have been better taken into account in this proposal. I consider it fair that when a person gives his whole life to serve the entire nation, then he does not add to the discussion the idea that he has sat here just to benefit from some future privilege that is not even unreasonable. I think that the committee could have taken these matters into account even more seriously, and this is just a few years of transition for these people. So I am talking about those who, possibly over 20, have been in this house for more than 30 years and who have ministerial periods behind them. Now, for them, this proposal is not reasonable.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u28	Mr President! That was where the previous representative said that we were going to reform in such a way that the people and representatives who fall from here would be in the same situation, and we went to correct it when there was a lot of public coverage of these people who, for years and for the rest of their lives, received an adaptation pension and then earned capital income, and it was contrary to the public's sense of justice. This is the reform we started with. We, as a group of Finns, were also happy to set out to correct this injustice, and this has also been a bill from our group. This has also been a citizens' initiative and has been widely demanded by the public. But it was not long before this group of chairmen of parliamentary groups met — there was a variable composition due to people's absences — and other things, smaller nuances, related to maternity allowances and things like this, began to appear on the table, which sounded very important. But then at some point they began to talk about the adjustment money and their future for present - sitting parliamentarians. I have to say that many Members have spoken in such a way that I feel somewhat bad when we go out here and regulate these matters by means of parliamentary legislative initiatives, but this has progressed. At this point, the Finns of Finland felt that they could not be involved in the fact that we were also raising the adjustment money for the MPs who were currently sitting, and this is where our dissenting opinion started. We are happy to accept that we will correct this excess, which we have been talking about for a long time, but we will not accept that, at the same time, when there have been all kinds of cuts, we will raise our own adjustment money. We would have agreed to be put on the same line as all the citizens if changes were to be made, that is, when we fall out of here, we are in the same kind of obligation as the rest. If we receive earnings-related daily allowance, good, but we have an obligation to work, we will have to go to education, we will have to seek work actively, or if we do not receive earnings-related benefits, we will receive other unemployment benefits, but we would then also have the responsibilities that other people have. We have talked about the fact that, because of the obligation to act, a lot of money has been cut off from the citizens when they are unable, for their own sake, to fill it, but now there is a situation in which Members of Parliament are in a different position, that is to say in a better position than ordinary citizens. In addition, this draft law proposes that the adjustment allowance be paid if the representative's office has lasted at least one year. This is an improvement on the current situation. Today it has had to last at least three years — an improvement in the current state. In addition, there is an opportunity for the Staff Committee to apply for an additional adjustment allowance for the MPs, and it has then become a matter of this kind that discretionaryly can be considered for various social reasons. I think there might be old friends there to think about these things. It may not be the best way. On behalf of our group, Mr Arja Juvonen, Member of the Parliament of the People's Party of Finland, has lodged this objection, and I would like to say here that our group rejects this objection. In other words, we accept this third draft law in accordance with the report and we object to the amendments to the first and second draft law by amending Article 2(3) of the first draft law so that the pensioner who has a pension to be abolished by this law is entitled to an adaptation allowance under the Act on the Pensions and Adaptation Allowance of a Member of Parliament for a period of two years from the entry into force of this law. This bill is currently proposing three years. So for all the listeners to know that now that we are abolishing this system of jam poles — I call it now by this name — this will be a transitional period. This came from the views of the constitutional experts that a certain transitional period must be put in place, and in this bill it was put forward for three years. At some point there were such views that for two to three years, and apparently — and obviously — most of the constitutional experts were in favour of this three years, and this bill has now been put into place for three years. However, we propose that it be two years. I'm sure in two years you'll be able to adapt to smaller incomes. Then, on the second draft law, we want to amend Article 2 'in such a way that the adjustment allowance is paid for a maximum period of one year, provided that the representative's office has lasted at least three years. In other words, now that it is three years that we have to sit here for adaptation money, we are not now prepared to reduce it to one year, that is to say, this improvement. In addition, we would delete Article 19(3), which reads: ‘In the case of an application by a committee of inquiry, an additional adjustment allowance may be granted for a maximum period of 12 months,if there are health,economic,social or other special reasons. “ In other words, on this point too, we believe that the same line — no additional decisions made by old colleagues or by current friends of the Commission. We are therefore pleased to welcome the removal of the jam pole system, but we are not looking well and we cannot be involved in raising our adjustment money system, when we are not even prepared to take on the duty of activity which the rest of the opposition has criticised here with us. Now, come on, let's not raise that adjustment money without us putting ourselves under an obligation of activity. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u29	Madam President! I bring such everyday realism to this debate. This adjustment money is now something of EUR 1700 and does not even correspond to our current earnings-related system. Now this new adjustment allowance, its minimum level, still does not correspond to this earnings-related income level, which would be around 2,400 of the salary. I do not quite understand this kind of hatred of the Finns and the representatives of the Sea against the fact that the basic security of people working here in society is being managed in this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u30	Reply representatives Anttila, Modig and Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u31	Thank you, Speaker! Only a minor correction to Mrs Merelle, when you called for this system to be as consistent as possible with what other people have. For example, this 15-year period, which is the basis for the collection of pensions by MPs, makes it a fact that when you are here you are eating your own pension and that is not fair either. It's not what other people get, because usually when you serve longer, it's usually for your benefit, but it's the other way around.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u32	Madam President! I cannot help but marvel at this position of the Finns, because in the past you have suggested that the adjustment allowance should be earnings-related, exactly as it is. In other words, you have proposed a higher adjustment allowance than what is being proposed here, and now you are suggesting that this cannot be done because of the unequal situation. In my opinion, this is the culmination of populism. So it is presented as less adjustment money than the Finns have previously demanded, but the Finns cannot accept it because they think it is too much, even though it is less than what they have previously proposed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u33	Madam President! I must continue with that speech by Mr Modig. In some ways it is incomprehensible that we are first calling for earnings-related daily allowance for Members of Parliament. Yes, I would have agreed, too, but I would not have agreed to what the Finns of Finland put it up to, i.e. a earnings-related daily allowance. In my own proposal, I felt that there should be a system such as earnings-based per diem, which would also exclude capital income. But in the model of the Finns of Finland, earnings-related daily allowance does not make the very special thing happen, which was that it was intended to eliminate the abuses that some people on MP pensions enjoyed, that is to say, raised the company's capital income and, at the same time, Parliament's pension. And the Finns of Peru were fully involved in this sled, calling out that capital income must continue to be allowed on the basis of the earnings-related daily allowance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u34	Mr President! Of course, I understand the attitude of those who are behind the bill, because they do not say that we are currently changing the system in which people receive an adaptation pension for their whole life, up to retirement age. That's not the same thing as putting you in the same position. If you put unemployment benefit in the same position, it depends on your background. It may be unemployment allowance, it may be earnings-related daily allowance, but in any case it is in line with active obligations. And besides, you have both of them in this show now. It's a choice. It says here that you can choose either a earnings-related daily allowance or an adjustment allowance, which is more advantageous to the representative. It's your choice. You don't get to pick a normal person. I do not understand it when it is said to me that you do not understand “hate.” I'm not hostile. I'm in charge of my own income. If I fall out of here, the question is my own coming. I'm not ready to raise my own income here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u35	Madam President! In the past, you were prepared to raise them more than is proposed in this proposal. What many people may miss in the debate is the fact that the MP has not had the opportunity to receive earnings-related unemployment benefit, because we are not in paid employment. We do not have a contract of employment, this is a trust, and that is why we do not have a duty to work here, so to speak. So this is a very special situation. I personally think it is all right and I believe that it fits in with the people's sense of justice, that the pension system, as it was, was too generous and at least war against my own sense of justice. However, I cannot help but think that those very experienced representatives who have made a long career as ministers are being treated quite harshly here. But I stand behind this motion and I believe that it is better to continue with this, and I believe that the people will be satisfied with this when this is resolved.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u36	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u37	Madam President! In spring 2016, I took the initiative to abolish the adaptation pension for MPs, which was signed only by the Finnish Parliament Group. Well, the media then took this booth after this bill and began to write in the papers about the abuses that have occurred as a result of the adaptation pension. Snowball began to roll, and then a citizens' initiative came, calling for the abolition of the adaptation pension for MPs, and now we are here because of the legislative initiative before us, which aims to abolish the adaptation pension scheme for MPs and to transfer all former and present MPs to the same adaptation allowance scheme. This is a good thing and a good thing to support, but the draft amendments to the basic Finns' protests would make the bill even better and even fairer. That is why I support the proposals made by Mrs Mere, which she has just made.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u38	Madam President! This law is good and bad. The good news is that this adjustment pension will be abolished. The bad news is, there's gonna be some bad mistakes, some really bad ones. Here the bad mistake is what should be removed, that the pension should be counted for 15 years, either from the beginning of the career or from the end of the career, excluding the intermediate years. For example, for the 38 years that have been signed, this would not reach either end. The law must therefore be amended so that a single period of 15 years, with the exception of intermediate years, can be started from any point in order to achieve justice. I mean, this is a big mistake. They don't treat us the same way. This is precisely the problem that we wanted to change and correct, but it has now failed. Moreover, at the beginning of a career there may not be significant confidence measures. It cannot be that some Members of Parliament are treated correctly and others are mistreated, that some may receive pension from ministerial years and that others are not. There is nothing fair and fair about this. I will also pay attention to another matter. Several Members of Parliament who have served for a long time in Parliament have been concerned about the injustice of pension laws. We have discussed the problem in a group such as Mauri Pekkarinen, Sirkka-Liisa Anttila, Seppo Kääriäinen, Ilkka Kanerva and the undersigned. As far as I can tell, there are others involved. We have also told the leadership of our groups and the President, Paula Risiko, about the problem. Parliament's Ombudsman's attention has also been drawn to this issue. What's going on? There are cases where, for example, a representative has been present in Parliament for more than 35 years, i.e. three times for the 15 years required for full pension. There have also been ministerial years at this time, but as a result of so-called coordination, the former Minister, for example, would not receive a cent of the pension for ministerial service. Such a representative will be punished for having done more in his life than the work of a representative and a minister. So it would have been better to be unemployed. That would not have created this problem. We believe that attention should now be paid to the problem and that there should be no coordination which is totally incompatible with the general principle of pensions that the entire working life affects the size of the pension. It has been claimed that a stronger accumulation of us, Parliament, would be an obstacle here, but this strong accumulation could be reduced to the extent that it had been fair on the basis of their years of accumulation. In other words, there have now been absolutely terrible errors in this legislation. Of course, it is quite nice to retire from this as a member of parliament after eight years of work and after 38 years. Sometimes in this room, you have to tell things exactly the way they are. Now they've been told.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u39	Mr President! I can agree with Mr Salolainen on every point. And it actually comes to my mind when I myself myself have been sitting for three parliamentary periods in the work of the Constitutional Committee, that this proposal would have needed to be examined now by the Constitutional Committee from the point of view that we are not being treated equally here, just as Mrs Salolainen described very well here. When the legislators themselves are unable to treat each other fairly and equally, then of course the alarm bells should ring. I'm not complaining about that. I guess it'll give me the retirement I can get out of here. But it is totally wrong that 36 years are spent here in the hope that it will increase the pension and, on the contrary, the last two parliamentary terms have eaten it, EUR 500 every month.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u40	Madam President! When this issue was first discussed in the Chamber, I raised these shortcomings that the Members of Parliament who have held ministerial duties should be left behind in this reform. They're being mistreated according to my sense of justice. I have to say, this is what happens when you put things in the hands of amateurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u48	Mr President! First of all, Mr Salolainen justified this point and it would be reasonable to hear why no one would object to these views expressed here in his speech. In my opinion, it is a somewhat peculiar situation in which one cannot escape the impression that his argument is 100% correct. I think it's the right one. But what can be the basis for such a ghost decision-making — particularly now in my view of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health — that, despite the fact that these arguments have been available there, nothing is going to happen? And now that there is a debate here about every slump in the road, so clear about the injustice that Mr Salolainen opened up the debate on, no one here is willing to stand up and say that this is the right solution that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has made here. I am now challenging those who are members of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health here to justify what is wrong with that Saloian argument. What's in it that Parliament couldn't sign? We have had a lot of discussion about this, and it is known to Parliament's leadership, it is known to the group leaders, it is known to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and it is also known to the Committee on Compensation, which unfortunately did not include this – it could have been if it were to be dealt with. But above all I stood up to ask, What is the point that the line put forward by Salolainen cannot be considered right here? Tell me now, at last, in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u49	Madam President! I must say that we are in this situation because this external pressure on Parliament forced us to make a decision that cannot stand a fair interpretation, and the groups accepted it in order to achieve a solution. So I am one of those who, in their own parliamentary group, have accepted this because I did not get my own views through, with which I would have liked this proper, thorough preparation, so that these issues raised by Mr Salolainen and many others within it would have been reasonably feasible when we had first made a decision that capital income should not be raised when you are on a parliamentary pension and then peace for preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u50	Mr President! If only the Left Alliance had initially supported us in these debates, for example. We often talked about it in the early stages — I spoke and many others, I do not remember who said it — that we had to go and correct this mistake in this adjustment pension and remove that accumulation of capital income in that it is not possible, for example, to obtain capital income when this adjustment pension can last for years, decades. I had to go and fix this, but they wanted to keep these on the table. It may be as Mr Myllykoski said that they wanted to make an agreement. Well, I don't know, don't give up now if you don't want to settle. And you just said that you wouldn't agree to this kind of earnings-related daily allowance, which includes capital income. So ordinary people and everyone who is now on earnings-related per diem, other people, can earn capital income. Here the committee’s opinion states, if you have read this, that ‘at the end of the mandate,the representative may choose to apply for an adjustment allowance for unemployment benefit’. You have it with you here. There is no line here as a difference of opinion between the left-wing union, as you said, so let's be quite open about what you've been driving, and this was to be done... However, it must be said that the left-wing alliance did, as we did in these negotiations, suggest that this should be decided by someone else, that only this problem should have been corrected and that this whole system, which could have taken account of these various aspects, should have been put in place for more extensive preparation. While the group leaders went out to upset it, you could see it now when there was no proper preparation of the officials behind it. But then I would like to ask now that people are listening there, representatives Anttila and Salolainen: you said that this is a really bad situation when you do not make money, and many citizens are asking after the pension ceilings. Can you tell me now what the pension is, what you are going to have to get along with, because I think quite a few citizens think that when a small pension has been taken out of life, 40 years, why would we be in that situation now? I assume you'll get along with your pensions. If you now want to open this debate here, tell us what it is about the little pension you will have to make.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u51	Madam President! We are getting along with the Parliament's basic pension which is now being given to us, but do you think it is right for us to have two types of parliamentarians and former ministers here, some of whom also receive ministerial pensions and some do not?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u58	Mr President! In my opinion, the steak in this matter is still that the Finns of Peru were opposed to and are opposed to the increase in the amount of the parliamentary allowance for adaptation. It has become apparent in this debate that at least the Left Alliance is obviously going to some kind of trouble because they are now attacking the Finns of Peru. I believe that your arguments are based on very inadequate and misleading information, and the fact that you repeatedly present them is just your way of trying to discredit the basic Finns' line here. When Mrs Myllykoski started to talk about and appeal to these negotiations between the parliamentary groups at the time, I personally find it a little unpleasant that there has not been a record of them and that I have not been there myself and it is difficult to see in some way why you feel that this is what you are saying here. When the Finnish People's Party decided on this among themselves at the time, before those negotiations, it was said that it was acceptable that MPs were on the same line as employees. I still think that is a pretty good starting point, and that is not only the benefits, but also the obligations, such as unemployment insurance contributions or the active model. The essential questions here are, in fact, that instead of focusing on the Left Alliance to blame the Finns of Peru with these misleading and ill-informed accusations, could the Left Alliance also answer why you want to increase the amount of the allowance for adaptation. It would also be nice for the SDP to hear the answer to this same question, as would why the SDP, or even the Left Alliance, do not want Members of Parliament to be included in the active model. Answer me this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u60	Mr President! One aspect which I am not sure has come up with in this debate is, of course, that the MP is not in employment and this is not the kind of job that you could actually apply for with any activity other than every four years. In fact, that time is nearing when you can apply here, and then it will soon not be close. The group chairmen who have signed this initiative will also be able to respond to that speech by Mr Kanerva, who will probably know what they have signed. And I also agree that some sort of remuneration committee arrangement on this issue would perhaps have been better, because it is a reasonably grotesque play that MPs themselves discuss and decide their own fees and subsequent adjustment funds. But in such a large picture, forgetting these beauty flaws, it is good that this legacy of the old world and the lack of these adjustment pensions as such is being corrected and removed. Of course, it is unfortunate that improvements were added to this, but it is still possible to live up to the active regret that you support and vote in favour of the amendment to the Finnish Constitution.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u61	Mr President! In the light of the debate here, I propose that the matter be left on the table so that the Council of Presidents will now consider whether it is appropriate to ask for the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, given that it is obvious that the debate here has also taken place.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u64	There's a list of speakers here. I would ask the representative to take the floor. — Representative Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u65	Madam President! If one piece at a time, those answers to the True Finns: When Mr Meri says here that it is possible for a Member of Parliament to choose, I would like you to read the basis of the report. What's it meant to do? It is intended that only a short-term MP should be given the opportunity to maintain earnings-related security on the basis of the merit of his previous employment. Thus, no earnings-related daily allowance is paid on the income of a MP. There's a big difference. I have to say, according to my sense of social justice, that if a person who is here for less than a year and does not receive an adjustment allowance were to fall even in terms of unemployment security, then I can never accept such injustice that a person who is here as a Member of Parliament for a moment would be rejected from the social support network of power.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u73	Mr President! Perhaps, unlike this debate, I understand that this is a very good thing for everyone, that we can change this adjustment pension system, which has been disproportionate, and that we can get to a situation that is closer to what is, as it were, a normal situation in the field of paid employment. Of course, we parliamentarians have the speciality that we do not receive a salary, but a reward, and that is why we then had to make changes to this law, which are considered to be more about the type of salary than about the remuneration. That is why, for example, at some point when this reform was carried forward by the groups together, the concerns and the question of whether this could now lead to a retroactive intervention in pension benefits for other citizens. But that is not the case, because indeed this adaptation pension for MPs is not the same type of pension as what employees or entrepreneurs pay for their own work. All in all, I do welcome the fact that we are going to have a clear change in this. It is true that, of course, it is a little silly that we ourselves have to make this amendment of the law and that this proposal could not be made by the commission. But since this requires changes in the law, it goes this way now. Of course, it is a good thing that we are doing this now for the future Parliament and not for the new Parliament to decide on those matters. In that sense, it is a good thing that we are now going to finish this. This was also the case when we looked at other aspects of social security which had already arisen when the last amendment of the Parliament's adjustment system and the transfer of part of the Members to the adjustment allowance were made, and in that opinion the committees stated that it would be appropriate to deal with these other shortcomings and see how they should be changed, so that there are no disproportionate situations in which, after their career, a Member of Parliament becomes ill and then that sickness money, or anything else, is not calculated on the basis of its representative's remuneration, but at a minimum level, so that it is closer to the normal employees. All in all, I think it is important that we get this law adopted now. I understand that there are some small points here that have been tried to find solutions, but in the big picture this is an important step forward, and I hope that this will be accepted.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u74	Congressman Anttila has made a presentation on the table. I would ask the representative to complete the motion: which part-session would you like to put this on the table?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u75	Mr President! My idea was that there should be a debate in the Council of Presidents to see if there is a need to consult the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in this regard when we talk about equality between parliamentarians. And then the sitting will be determined by the Council of Presidents' consideration of the matter. I don't know if you can do this, but this was my idea.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u76	Let's go over this presentation by Congressman Anttila. — — — — We must now, if we are to support this, have an idea of which part-session this is to be transferred to. So we'd have to look at one of the plenary sessions now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u77	Mr President! Next week, maybe Tuesday. Then the Council of Presidents will have time to go over my question.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u78	Mr President! I support Mrs Anttila's proposal specifically in terms of equality of representatives on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u79	It has been supported that the matter should be put on the table next Tuesday at the plenary session on 12 March. We can now discuss this timetable as to whether this is appropriate for the representatives. — Representative Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u80	Thank you, Mr President. As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I have no direct objection to this in itself, but I think it is a little surprising that this has been before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u86	Sirkka-Liisa Anttila, supported by Pertti Salolainen, has proposed that this matter be put on the table next Tuesday, 12 March 2019. So it stays on the table. Any other suggestions for putting them on the table?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u87	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u88	Mr President! Such a proposal must always be in principle correct and it is to be supported that, if the government's action is to protect and harm those major predators, then the damage must also be borne by the society which exercises its protection and force it to do so by law. Of course, it must be noted that not everything can be replaced by money, such as the fear that comes when schoolchildren go to school and there may be large predators along the routes, or if pets suffer and die in the hands of great beasts. It cannot be replaced by money in itself, but perhaps with money you can get some value for it. The fact that the committee considers it important that the police have sufficient powers to intervene in the prevention of the danger or damage caused by wolves to people is an important principle, but I also believe that it should be extended to allow a certain kind of self-defence in these situations more easily and with a lower burden of proof for the hunter or defender. Perhaps this need is best borne out by these Green Left protests that have been put forward in this motion. In some ways, this defending of wolves seems quite strange.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u89	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Audit Committee on TrVM 11/2018 vp. It is now decided on the basis of the reports.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u90	Mr President! This consideration of the Board's annual reports is an important part of parliamentary supervision and supervision of the Board's work. It also has established procedures and is also involved in this work in the form of a separate report from the National Audit Office. In this context, we will also look at the way in which the government has implemented previous parliamentary statements, i.e. positions binding on the Government of Parliament — and so this time too. I would like to highlight a few issues that have been addressed in this work: First of all, last season the Audit Committee carried out a thorough work on the functioning of the Senate's property management and the Senate's operating principles. It also led to Parliament's positions, which have then guided the action of subsequent governments. In this respect, it can be said that Senate properties have undergone a very significant reorganisation of their operations, have listened better to tenants and have sought to clarify the criteria for the determination of rents both in a manner that serves the overall interests of the State and then taking into account the options and needs of the tenants’ activities. This implementation of the Senate opinion of the Parliament has also been examined by the current Audit Committee and states that the government has largely acted in accordance with the line taken by the Parliament on the matter. Separately, then, we have found that there are still some problems here. They relate in particular to the Ministry of Defence, the way in which the buildings of the Defence Administration are treated and the principles in which the Senate shows invoices from these properties to the Ministry of Defence. In this regard, it can be said from that consultation that the committee had a lot of understanding of the points of view of the Ministry of Defence. It should be considered that safety needs guide solutions and that their bills do not become excessive. After all, it is suspected that, over time, in the next few years, a situation could arise in which up to a fifth of the expenditure of the Ministry of Defence would go into real estate control. However, when there are hardly any alternative uses for these properties, it must be considered, in the name of society as a whole, that these real estate needs need to be properly managed in such a way that the Defence Forces also have access to well-functioning, modern and well-managed buildings. Well, then it turned out that there is also a little different interpretation of the way the Senate can sell its activities outwards. It is a question of restrictions imposed by the Procurement Act. This 5% out-of-commerce limit is rather narrow and has since led to slightly different interpretations, where the position of the Ministry of Finance on this sale has been a little more informal than that of the audit agency, for example. This applies to cases where the State sells 100 % of its own company’s Senate services. They will also be counted against this 5% out-of-sale quota. In this respect, the Audit Committee has concluded that this position of the Ministry of Finance is in line with the State’s overall interest, i.e. that, in any event, when certain properties exist, it is justified that they can continue to be used and leased within the State Group. Another major element in this report is the future of regional cities. The closure of Savonlinna's teacher training centre was followed by a major debate, and the Audit Committee has previously proposed Parliament's positions, which have been adopted here. In line with them, the government has carried out such a regional city survey, which has been extensively covered by the development perspectives of the regional cities. Our concern continues to be with these regions in declining regions, which are facing major problems and at the same time run the risk of leaving both the state and then the private sector. In the past, the committee has taken the view that the government should clarify the need for change in the university law so that universities in the university law are invited to take into account these regional aspects, i.e. the needs of regional development, when decisions on the location of teaching are taken. This Savonlinna case is in that way, one can say, sad, that at the same time that the large-scale dismantling of blocks of flats in Savonlinna — perhaps even 20 blocks of flats are being demolished — they will then be rebuilt elsewhere, and these are largely explained by this abolition of teacher training. The committee specifically asked the Minister for Education to explain what measures have been taken in response to this statement as to whether there was a need to amend the university law, and the answer was that it has not actually been clarified. The committee therefore reiterates its position that this amendment to the university law should serve as an example, so that it does not happen that the one hand of the state does anything else than the other hands of the state. Well, then there has been a wide-ranging examination of the problems of moisture and mould, and there is also a very thorough report from the previous Committee on Audit on these issues during the last period and the parliamentary statements relating to it. There has been an incident in this area, but it can still be said that it is insufficient in relation to the seriousness of this problem. The Government has launched the Healthy Facilities project, which has started at the end of the parliamentary term and whose results are not yet available. This is how it can be said that there are no significant developments in this area of Healthy Space and humidity management for this parliamentary term. As a result of this problem of moisture and construction, the committee proposes to Parliament a separate position that these liability issues should also be addressed by amending the legislation. It seems obvious that as long as there are no stricter positions on liability issues, there will be phenomena in which new buildings will have to be opened within five years because of moisture problems. This cannot be considered acceptable. We know from earlier work that this is a big economic issue. It is estimated that the annual impact of moisture problems on health is worth half a billion, some EUR 500 million — economically significant and even greater as human suffering. The committee proposes that the next Parliament be briefed on the Health Facility project, and then a new position be proposed to clarify these responsibilities. Finally, there is one specific issue that was raised separately in this work. It's about security at the State Department. The committee went through the security solutions in the delegations and found that there were surprisingly large shortcomings. They mean, for example, that the delegations do not have access to discussions, consultations that are protected from listening — or that is the case, but some of the delegations. Of course, in modern times it is hard to imagine that this is the case because it is known that listening and a different effort is being made both to know and to influence our affairs abroad in a broad way. Similarly, there are significant gaps in data protection contacts between delegations and the capital. This, too, cannot be considered acceptable. We know that there has been a serious leak in the State Department several years ago and would have assumed that this would have led to improvements across the board. However, the committee's consultations have shown that these appropriations have not been preferred to in the ministry's internal decision-making process, although in some respects they are small, in some cases even a few tens of thousands and, in some cases, hundreds of thousands of people, the money and even the vast programme are only referred to as a few million. The committee considers this to be so important for the security of Finland that it proposes that Parliament should make a separate statement or statement on this, which would mean that measures should be taken during this year to correct these security problems immediately and that the additional budget for this year should include the necessary appropriations. This therefore requires immediate improvements. The committee's report is unanimous in keeping with the good tradition of the Committee on Audit.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u91	Mr President! Thank you very much to the Audit Committee for this report. It became clear that there are certain issues which seem to be very long-term and move from one parliament to another, as is the case with this issue of Senate real estate, which has already been taken into account in the past, and it is good that it has still been on the list of the Audit Committee. This is where Mr Heinäluoma raised the issue of this Ministry of Defence, for example. After all, it is quite intolerable if more than 10% of the defence budget now goes into real estate and it threatens to rise to up to 20%. Then it goes a little to the wrong end, especially when we know that these buildings are located in areas, which is actually impossible to hand over to anyone else. In that sense, it is good that the next Parliament will also continue to keep this issue on the table and will consider whether there is a solution in the matter that, for example, some types of security property could be separated into a separate entity and directly owned by the state. That might be the most sensible thing to do in that case. Then I am really glad that these indoor air problems are not buried anywhere but are still active in finding solutions to them, because as has been said here, they are an absolutely intolerable health risk and a problem. Many of our children and young people, many of our schoolchildren, suffer from these public buildings with indoor air problems. Health care staff is one group that has to work on these premises, and the garrison is in fact one where there are many indoor air problems. It is clear that we should be able to deal with this in such a way that no more such building would be built in this country where these problems arise, and then, on the other hand, to ensure that these buildings, which are in poor condition and cause health problems, can either be replaced or repaired which actually eliminate the problem. This information security issue of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which was also raised here, is extremely important. I very much hope that it will be possible to intervene quickly, because it will be intolerable if it is that the security of our State Department facilities is not in order. This is something that needs to be corrected. Then there is the issue of the region, which was raised here: the funding criteria for universities are, of course, the problem if you think about Savonlinna, where kindergarten teachers and teachers are graduating, where they are clearly graduating directly into the profession, so that the research work is not so important that when much emphasis is placed on the research work in the criteria, it is necessarily of a different type.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u92	Madam President! The Audit Committee had to deal with this Savonlinna case a little more broadly. This drop in teacher training there is, of course, possible but not necessarily the best solution for the whole, according to the autonomy of the university law. It was stated in the Audit Committee that at least half of these twenty apartment buildings are being demolished because there is no market for them, and as a result this matter was also discussed during the Senate audit, because Savonlinna is, however, known as an important organiser of the summer opera festival and as a long-term, successful actor. However, Savonlinna is a locality that lives freshly in the summer. There is a lot of summer cottage housing, which is why there is demand during the summer, but the winter season is different. I have long wondered: Olavinlinna is a national relic of its time — unfortunately it is an ancient relic. There, in the summertime, opera parties can be held. In time, it was not even to be covered by any solution to prevent rain; now it has been something like that for twenty years, so that, in the event of rain, the public would not get wet. However, if it were further developed throughout the year, when the capacity of the Finlandia House is practically full, the marketing of the Finlandia House could also take responsibility for working towards a sufficient number of congresses. It would be a year-round activity that would also bring additional overnights to the locality, so that these buildings, which are now being demolished, could be used for accommodation. There could also be external investors, or at best there could be co-operative housing, so that people could visit them during summer and winter, depending on what is there at any time. This solution, which has now been made, must have been repugnant for the National Board of Antiquities, but for the public this security has not necessarily been thought through to the end. If there is a disturbance, there are 2,200 seats and then staff who carry out or support the display, several hundred, with a total of around 3,000 people in a small area — some of this security risk was mentioned during the Senate hearing. The relevant CEO stated that whenever an acquaintance of his goes there, he tells them that if any fuss arises there, go up, do not go outwards. The corridors that lead from there to the fresh outdoors and off the island are narrow, mainly covered with cobblestones, so that there are a wide variety of risks in the event of a disturbance. This issue is also under the fingertips of the National Board of Antiquities and under decision-making authority, but for the overall benefit of the state and, above all, Savonlinna, this situation in Savonlinna should be examined more extensively than how to dismantle 10 buildings. Consideration should be given to how to get Savonlinna back on the growth path, and also to Finland's point of view, one more congressroom with international export earnings. Finland is a prestigious place for international congresses, and the Finnish winter and lake landscape, which Savonlinna has at its best, is an important competitive factor. But most of all, I fear that in a situation of disruption, when panic occurs in a cramped state, the mark can be really harmful to the reputation of Finland as a whole. Situations like this will then exceed the global news threshold. Of course, it has been considered here that this legislation should be amended, but I think that this issue should be raised in some way to ensure that this situation in Savonlinna does not deteriorate further. If, at the end of teacher training, this purchasing power is permanently reduced, then the service providers, the shops and the various companies will then be in a tight position to try to sell their businesses profitably to households, individuals, in a shrinking market. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u93	Mr President! The chairman of the Audit Committee, Mr Heinäluoma, quite rightly referred to the work of the last parliamentary term on Senate property, and thank you for the fact that the Audit Committee has now continued its work during this parliamentary term. And I fully agree that there are still problems. The military is one, the museums are the other, the research institutes are the third. Let me just give you an example: at one point the Senate at the Sarka Museum took on so much rent that more than half went to rent. It's completely unreasonable. Now that situation has changed, it has been managed, but this needs to be closely monitored and looked for ways, for example, to deal with the building needs of the defence administration in the future, because the current system will then lead, as has been said here, to a fifth, 20%, going into rents. It's completely unreasonable. It is now up to the government and the next parliamentary term's Audit Committee to find a solution to this, because if we continue to do so, then the situation will be that the Senate cannot be used but must seek another solution. For example, research institutes and museums, when they cannot leave their properties, will then be imprisoned. They are trapped in it by the monopoly, if we say so frankly. This was an in-depth opening during the last parliamentary term, and it revealed, among other things — and I will take just one example — that in the municipality of Jokioinen, the then Agricultural and Food Research Centre, it was called then, there was a very large gap in rents: rents at the level of the capital region were collected in a situation where the rent level in Jokiois was quite different, i.e. it was not possible to negotiate those rentals according to the existing level of the locality. As I recall, 60 percent of the premises of its research facility were overbooked.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u94	Madam President! The chairman of the Savonlinna City Board and the vice-chairman of the Savonlinna Opera Festival delegation must also, of course, take the floor after Mr Lehde's speech. It is a real shame and truly regrettable that OKL moved to Joensuu from Savonlinna. It has now been well seen from these applicant statistics that Joensuu is certainly not as attractive as Savonlinna and Joensuu were combined. Even these numbers of candidates have completely collapsed, and in fact the whole of Eastern Finland is now facing the challenge of how teachers, kindergarten teachers, can be reached in Eastern Finland in the future, because there is only one place of education in Joensuu. Yes, there was work to be done on this, but for some reason the university's principal and dean felt that yes. Joensuu is very attractive compared to these two options. But this has now led to the dismantling of rental houses in Savonlinna. Of course, we try to do so in the most controlled way possible, so that our housing market there somehow recovers and then there is a reasonable supply of housing for different needs. As far as Olavinlinna is concerned, at the moment there is an entirely accepted and a good rescue plan in existence naturally. That way, the opera party can be held safely there. If it were to be covered, it should be done in such a way that Savonlinna’s opera festival would then receive a completely different amount of public funding from what they currently receive. At the moment, at Savonlinna Opera Festival, the share of funding is 80%, compared with 20% of public funding. Then, if the state were to go on spending more than 4 million annual opera festivals, it would certainly also be appropriate for the opera party to reduce the number of seats, the number of audiences. Then, though, we can keep the opera festival of high quality.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u95	Mr President! There the local rescue authority has granted a temporary permit to 2200 viewers, but it is a temporary permit which I understand is now granted 40 times in a row. In my opinion, in such a case, we need to consider what kind of permanent risk arises when this situation is repeated year after year and whether, with temporary authorisation, it can be considered that this security has been resolved. Now there is a slight shift in shipping, which could also make the island another bridge to the other side and improve safety to some extent, not to mention the possibility of putting a sprinkler system in it that, if a fire broke out, would prevent it from spreading. Yes, in this security — all those who have looked at it — decisions have been taken that are inadequate in terms of safety. I understand that the National Board of Antiquities opposes the further development of this castle from its own principles, but in Finland different public buildings have been developed over the centuries as needed. From the Turku Cathedral you can see where the material has been transferred to, and that is how it could be done in Olavinlinna. It appears that the State is obliged to take care of this sort of thing and, in this context, also to finance opera festivals in such a way as to keep the situation under control.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u96	Mr President! A few comments on the speeches that have been made. First of all, we must thank those who took part in the debate. This has been a very one-sided debate and, of course, gives strong support to what has been done in the various parliamentary committees and in the Audit Committee as a result of the annual report. Then there are a few things. I share Mr Lehde's concern about the security situation at the Savonlinna Opera Festival. This would certainly give rise to a separate examination, and I hope that this debate will be heard by the appropriate authority both in Savonlinna and here in Helsinki. And then to the Senate. This has been the long-standing commitment of the Parliament to renew the rental system for Senate properties. So it has gone in the right direction and is better and more transparent for the tenants. Last season it turned out that one could even say that: Senate rents had been used as additional cutbacks to operating expenses because it had lower control. This has now largely been avoided, and satisfaction has clearly increased. These observations of the last parliamentary term have been made, but there is still work to be done. I will return to this example of Savonlinna in the region. Yes, I must say that it is not very desirable that when different positions are taken in Parliament, then the ministry is not really being replaced. In this case at Savonlinna, it turned out that, in principle, the continuation of teacher training in Savonlinna could have been managed through the performance guidance system, and that would have been one option. However, it is also possible to protest against this, but a more reasonable option would be for universities, which are part of a large group of states as independent public-law entities, to voluntarily consider the fullness of society. That is why I will continue to insist that the preparation of the amendment to the university law is needed in order to ensure that universities, which are really big players in regional development, voluntarily take into account in their own work what the regional impact is, that it is one aspect when decisions are taken. We have quite an advanced culture and governance system, as far as the Government's proposals, legislative proposals to Parliament are concerned. There are so many aspects to be taken into account, starting with equality and gender equality also for regional development, and now that universities have been given increased decision-making rights, the will of Parliament and the whole country should be seen that even that university's decision-making can not only take place from a narrow equation of its own line of results, but rather from a broader perspective. I would assume that the whole idea of the university itself goes from there,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u97	Madam President! It is easy to agree with Mr Heinäluoma's view of the university's social role and its impact on its environment and also its responsibility. I agree that the University Act did not work here in that it can be relied on in relation to the transfer of OKL from Savonlinna. It would be good to ensure that Parliament is able to influence these specific locations, because we here in Parliament look at the matter from a slightly different perspective from that seen in the universities, which means that we have an overall view of Finland's regional development here, and as has now been seen in both Kajaani and Savonlinna, it is not necessarily in the universities in that way — although in the University Act itself, in the first paragraphs, it says that the tasks of universities are the most important tasks of social interaction at the university. I have to say that when it was in Savonlinna's question that it was about all the parties who felt that it should not be postponed, but the university disagreed and yet they ended up with this transfer decision, we can ask at this point what the social interaction at the time was.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u98	Mr President! I remember when universities began to be established across the country, the aim was precisely to balance the development of the country, and, quite rightly, I estimated that the university would bring vitality to the region and that education would help to improve the region. The University of Joensuu is one of these arguments, and now if the university examines the matter from such a narrow point of view and has taken the wrong decision — which every organisation makes — and when no irreversible damage has yet been done in this matter as long as the apartments are there, it would be worth noting that the person who has knowledge and understanding and who is not just a person who is pursuing authority will correct the decision before the damage is permanent. I would still like to see if teacher training could be restored as long as those apartments are standing and classrooms and other classrooms are still available, so that this cycle could be cut off at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u99	Mr President! It was not possible for me to take part in this debate earlier when I was at another meeting to reflect on Sitra's future, but, President, I heard here at the end of that previous debate where the representative I think the newspaper has just made a very important speech. This report by our committee has certainly been on the agenda for this region, and this has come up not only in this report, but also earlier in our housing policy, in which we talked about how a more balanced regional policy should ensure that a solution somewhere does not cause some kind of disaster in a particular policy area. Even in Savonlinna, for example, the situation became difficult because it was a huge loss to the whole region and at the same time a disaster, such as a housing policy. This is a rather serious message and it is therefore important that Parliament has also intervened on several occasions. Our report also deals, among other things, with these key projects, and some reflection on them. For myself, I would see that many may be good enough to try more to ensure that some of the good things that have been found are permanent, and not so that then there are certain problems that, once someone good has been achieved, how can it be established? I myself brought this up simply because for me, such an important subject has been culture and its promotion, and I know that we in Pirkanmaa, for example, have had an excellent activity in the name of a leading project in terms of culture and its welfare effects and all this thought about how to promote and see them. In order for it to continue in the future, it will continue to require investment and additional money, and we would have to be able to use such practices that these good things would be more than just temporary. President! I believe that there may have been a debate here on a rather serious matter, namely that the committee also made observations on its own records, that these information security issues should soon be put in place. Today's society is such that it is quite a wild thing, if we know clearly, however, that there are problems with information security, for example, in the State Department, and it is a little confusing as to why something has not already been done about it. It is very important, and I assume that now that this comes up in the debate and with relatively little effort, the matter could be dealt with with with little resources, the booth will be taken up and this matter will be rectified as a matter of urgency. After all, we constantly have amending budgets and others in Parliament where the necessary resources could be secured.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u100	Mr President! This Savonlinna issue deserves a bigger debate after the decisions of this Parliament, and, as Mr Lehti pointed out here, decisions can be taken every day to restore development in a more rational way from the point of view of society as a whole and also of the people of Savonlinna. I am also talking about this because I do not happen to be an elected representative of Parliament from South Savo, that I feel that there is a need to take a stand on an issue which does not concern my own constituency but which affects the whole of Finland and, therefore, also the people of my constituency. In Savonlinna, these difficulties, which are already known, will not end in this matter of teacher training, but we know that there is now a debate on the future of medical training, which hospital services are available, and if these hospital services are limited, will be the result of the end of health care training in this case in Savonlinna. And they are quite a blow to the region that has already had to take heavy blows, and all these decisions are of a social nature, so they do not come from the pressure of the market forces, so there is a need for both mental awakening, concern for the development of Finland as a whole and practical decision-making. When I said that previous parliamentary decisions have been taken into account in this statement on regional development and led to the appointment of a liquidator, as required by Parliament, then I have to say that the narrower aspect is what has happened since the liquidator left his proposal, that is to say, there are very few practical measures that would support the future survival of these troubled neighbourhood cities. Then we still have those regional cities that are doing very well, where business is expanding, especially on the west coast, and where there are jobs leading up to exports that may even be labour shortages. They must also be answered, but we have major problems regionally, especially on the Eastern Finland side, and they have been on the horizon for some time now, so real action would be needed in many areas in order to reverse this trend. Finally, on this matter of moisture damage: The first audit committee, led by Matti Ahte, did a very large job in the fight against the shadow economy in 2007 and made a long list of measures, more than 20 measures. As I recall, 19 of them ended up in the 2011 Katainen Government Programme. It was an important turning point in the fight against the black economy. Now we would need this same turn — even if we were a little late, anyway. When the next government starts, there will be a large number of positions on this report and on the building of Parliament in the past, which relate to the management of moisture.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u101	Mr President! Neither have I. I'm from Savonlinna, but I'm happy to go there. I would certainly go more if I were a warm supporter of the opera, but the scenery is so nice that it is just for them. Now that this situation has developed, I'm guessing there's 0.7 or more of a social and health care standard in this Parliament for the person being treated. In practice, this means re-training or training several thousand people in this field. The duration of its training must be several years before it can be completed in addition to this normal training, so that this 0.7 can be achieved. Then I would like to say that it would make sense for the state to consider the option of using Savonlinna in nursing training, while there are apartments and training facilities, so that they do not become an empty pledge and under the threat of demolition.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u102	Mr President! That was an important speech, and I welcomed the fact that it was already a little anticipated that this dimension would come into the law and that it would be 0.7. It goes without saying, of course, that this should be done in the name of humanity. I would also like to see the will found in all the parliamentary parties. I think this is the speech of the representative. The paper used it. It was very good. I could not wait to ask for one speech just to praise the history of the Committee on Audit in this problem of moisture control and mould. I have also followed it closely, and here the systematic work of the Committee on Audit has been recorded over the years. Some of these entries may have been taken forward, but, as Mr Heinäluoma pointed out, there is also so much that is absolutely essential for the future government and for the reign of our agenda, because everyone understands what a great human tragedy is, too, if you are trapped at home. It cannot really be understood how we can still have so many schools or day-care centres or public buildings with mold problems or indoor air problems in Finland today. Sometimes I feel that our skills today should be enough to ensure that when we correct these problems we do well, but too often we do not fix them well and when they get worse and worse. That is why this problem cannot be considered small. This is a very big matter, and I think it is very important that the authoritative committee, such as the Audit Committee, systematically keep this issue on the agenda. I remember how I also had the opportunity at the time to act as a minister who co-ordinates the mold performances of the various ministries. Even then, I thought it was very important that I kept up with what the various ministries might be trying to do on the basis of these records, what had already been done back then. It's very valuable. In the past, in my opinion, in an excellent, historic housing policy programme adopted unanimously by Parliament, we also determined that the quality of construction must continue to be an important factor. What came out of it was, for example, this responsibility, that the responsibilities should be clearer and that there should be an awareness of where mistakes have been made, and then those who are, as it were, the perpetrators of the error also have the responsibility issue, and that this will be verified is very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u103	Madam President! I also had to take the floor just because a different picture of Savonlinna is also being transmitted to this Chamber. We have an excellent situation there on the private side. There are many investments, tens of millions of euros have recently invested in Metsä Wood's factory, UPM's plywood factory, Woodworking, Sahakuutio among others, and yesterday this kind of possible 100-job factory project was announced, which manufactures fire safety technology. In addition, we have a very advanced fibre laboratory there, which has also received significant input from the state, and a strategic centre of the Natural Resources Centre, to which EUR 2.7 million has also been invested in this period. In a way, the views here on the private side are excellent. But then it is precisely this educational vacuum that is currently there, apart from Xamk's good educational provision, that is clear and that should be corrected. Last year, when we did a new law on early childhood education here in the spring, and because of that, we need, for example, an entirely new number of early childhood education professionals by 2030, that is not enough to train in Joensuu or Jyväskylä and elsewhere. Savonlinna could well be the place where these early education teachers are trained, for example. I would also like to see the possibility, at least, of continuing teacher training and conversion training. There is still excellent expertise in digital learning, among other things. There was a very progressive normal school, and these teachers are still there, they are nowhere from our fine, beautiful The one who wanted to move out of our Savonlinna. Hopefully we'll get more training places like this. It's a place where you can rebuild your concentration. I don't think the city's against it, anyway.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u104	Mr President! Perhaps one more concern at this end of the debate is about how consistently each government always implements the will expressed by Parliament. This is where we want to have shortcomings from time to time, to a lesser or greater extent, for all governments. It is of particular importance then that Parliament itself over the government-opposition boundaries defends what Parliament has consistently said and what Parliament has required. I am thinking here of this housing stock, which was indeed significant, as Mr Viitanen pointed out — an important consensus on the guidelines for housing policy, both for the end of this government and for the future government. In fact, there was one point which has now not been quite crystal clear and which concerned this Housing Fund position. Parliament clearly stated that the Housing Fund will continue to be needed and its capital will have to be used for housing needs and housing construction. However, in connection with the additional budget for Parliament, we have received a proposal which proposes that the capital of the Housing Fund be decoupled, exported and transferred to the needs of the transport sector. Not that the needs of the transport sector, such as these special purpose vehicles and related projects, are not necessary, certainly they are necessary, but once Parliament has recently considered that there is much to be done in building housing — I am referring here to these problems of moisture and mould, and then to the needs of special groups and also to the needs of affordable rental housing production in growth centres — it is intolerable that this small amount of money should be absorbed elsewhere. This same view should apply to every party, even when it is in the government, so that the people in this Parliament, and the people in the government parties in particular, understand the importance of upholding the will of the Parliament and demand this regardless of the pants on which they sit. The good thing about our system is that there is a cycle here, however, in this regime, that this is not a permanent privilege or burden to be in the government, not even in the opposition. But what is important is that the opinions taken unanimously in this House are the same. If Parliament itself does not watch its own positions, then no one will speak for it. I believe that this statement is beyond the current government-opposition threshold.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u105	Mr President! Mr Heinäluoma, in the run-up to that, raised a very important, important issue, namely precisely this idea of parliamentarianism and the fact that the government enjoys the confidence of Parliament and not the other way round. It was therefore very sad to see that in the amending budget, this 73 million was completely contrary to the rather recent unanimous approach and position of the Parliament, which had been withdrawn from the ARA or the VAR Fund, as it were, to cover these rail investments. As has been said, these should by no means be pitted against each other in that way. But in it Parliament must feel its own dignity, that if we have taken a unanimous or significant stand here to ensure that the ARA money is actually needed to build more affordable homes for people, to make these home repairs, to improve homes, to build lifts, to do all of this that the world needs today, then it cannot be that we made unanimous policies here just before Christmas, and then suddenly we do exactly the opposite. That is why, when this proposal is presented in this way, I myself thought and dared to say that it is hardly even necessarily acceptable to Parliament, because it is not in any way relevant for this whole project, the railway project itself, whether it takes 73 million from the ARA or not, but, on the other hand, it is very important. If we now take a new principle that, for the first time in history, there will be an additional income from the ARA Fund for a completely different purpose than it is intended for, then surely it will be, when there is a shortage of money, and the next time it will be easy to do and act in a similar way, and that is why I consider this, in principle, not only relevant to the matter, but also to the authority of Parliament. It is good to say, and it is good that it came to this, because we are talking here about the report of the Committee on Audit, and the Committee on Audit is, in my opinion, a fine and authoritative committee, that it is seeking consensus in its own statements, and in a very good spirit we have achieved many, many important things beyond the parliamentary term. Let this be, too, my wish.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u106	A point of order 6 will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report TyVM 16/2018 vp by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities. A statement on the report will now be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u107	Madam President! The Ombudsman for Gender Equality has submitted its first report to Parliament in December last year. In its report, the Ombudsman for Gender Equality wishes to highlight a number of observations on the promotion of gender equality, as well as the findings of the report and their recommendations for action. The Finns believe that the social debate and the exercise of freedom of expression and thus the democratic process should not be reduced as the report of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality suggests. This may have consequences in such a way that the threshold for participation in political and other social activities may become too high and even insurmountable because of the so-called fear of hate speech. In the report of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality, hate speech is also highlighted separately as a matter of social importance. We already have many factions who claim to be hate speech about things they do not support themselves and want to silence them from political intentions, even if they are not. Similarly, the Finns of Finland raise concerns that the Ombudsman for Gender Equality will forcefully highlight gender diversity in our educational institutions in his report. We are also critical of the many ideological ideas of education and feminism that have now emerged in our schools. We think it's important that in the future too girls are girls and boys are boys. The Finns also want to draw attention to the fact that freedom of choice for family leave must continue. We are in favour of family responsibility and responsibility. We want to support the family's own responsibility and our own solutions and at the same time think about what is good for Finland in the wider world. The report also links gender diversity to multiculturalism. In this context, emphasis is placed on the employer's obligation to prevent discrimination in a targeted and systematic manner. The report explicitly highlights the need to organise training in workplaces on multiculturalism. In the opinion of the Finns Party, this undermines the values that we want to maintain, and in addition, this can lead to the creation of a cheap labour market in the workplace. The Finns Party believes that the report should have included a separate section on the problems of equality between men and boys and the related problems. Now it is not enough. In general, we are concerned about the development in which, in many respects, men's rights are being trampled on in modern society, even at the expense of immigrants, under the pretext of so-called positive discrimination. The Finns Party wishes to draw attention to the transformation of the transfiguration mentioned in the report during the next parliamentary term. The Finns of Peru are opposed to the amendment of the transfiguration. We don't think a father can give birth. Finally, in this context, we highlight the so-called anonymous job search which has been tried in Western Europe as a trend towards the fashion of working life. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u110	Mr President! I support Mr Lehdo's proposal and support his views more generally. As I said in the referral debate on this subject, this report by the Ombudsman for Gender Equality is thoroughly political and ideological. It has very skilfully included key green left religious beliefs and Seta’s promises: ideologically motivated early childhood education, restricting freedom of speech under the guise of an undefined and abstract concept of hate speech. The Ombudsman for Gender Equality also says in his presentation that he has little interest in equality between men. I looked forward to seeing whether the committee would react to these shortcomings and how it would react to them. The answer is that it responds in exactly the same way as to the ideologies and problems corresponding to the report of the Ombudsman for Equality, i.e. by signing and not taking up this propaganda as such in its own explanatory statement. Contrary to the report of the Ombudsman for Equality, the committee has not put all these issues in the hands of the representatives of the government parties, i.e. it does not directly violate the Government Programme, as was the case in this report of the Ombudsman for Equality. In any case, however, they can be found in the explanatory statement, and that is why I am in no way in a position to sign these arguments and indeed to support Mr Lehdo's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u111	Mr President! First of all, the Ombudsman for Gender Equality deserves warm thanks for the work he has done well. Equality issues are much broader than what has been mentioned in this report, but I think it is a very wise choice for the Ombudsman for Gender Equality to choose certain subjects for more detailed consideration, and he has done a thorough and good job in the areas chosen. I would like to make four brief points about the report of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality in this speech: Firstly, the majority of the suspicions of discrimination against the Ombudsman for Gender Equality continue to be linked to the discrimination against pregnancy and family leave. In practice, it is seen, among other things, as a limitation of the duration of fixed-term employment relationships due to pregnancy and family leave, as difficulties in returning to work after family leave and as inappropriate questions in job interviews. Pregnancy discrimination occurs in all sectors. Discrimination against family leave also applies to men. In order to remedy this situation, it is necessary to implement the reform of family leave on a timely basis, since a more balanced distribution of family leave and responsibilities among parents is key to improving equal labour market status for women and men. The reform must also increase the flexibility of the family leave system and take greater account of the diversity of families. The Equal Opportunities Ombudsman has also pointed out that there are particular concerns about the implementation of prohibitions on pregnancy and family leave in respect of fixed-term employment relationships, zero-hour contracts and temporary agency work. There is therefore a great deal of need for clarification and development in the legislation on fixed-term employment and temporary agency work. This requires a thorough analysis, and any need for legislative changes in the work to be carried out through so-called platforms should also be investigated in order to combat discrimination on the grounds of pregnancy and parenthood. Another important theme of the report is the implementation of the Istanbul Agreement. Article 8 of the Agreement requires adequate financial and human resources to fulfil the contractual obligations. No separate appropriation has been allocated in Finland for the implementation of the contract, but the funding of the implementation is confirmed annually in the Ministry's own allocation plan. Adequate funding must be provided for the implementation of the agreement and the implementation of the agreement must also be monitored, and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities therefore proposes that Parliament receive regular information on the progress made in the implementation of the obligations under the Istanbul Convention and on the effectiveness of the measures taken. In the view of the Committee, it is appropriate to examine whether it would be possible to designate an independent institution to monitor and evaluate measures to prevent violence against women and violence against their families, and to make recommendations for the development of measures and the improvement of the status and rights of victims of violence. Thirdly, the resources of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality. The mandate of the delegate has increased, but the resources have remained the same. There is a gap between the mandated tasks and the resources available. The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities has repeatedly, almost every year, expressed its concern about the adequacy of the resources of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality. For example, the existing resources are not sufficient to promote equality and prevent discrimination, i.e. the gender equality Ombudsman is unable to do preventive work, as he himself would feel necessary. This would mean, among other things, raising public awareness of equality issues and equality legislation and monitoring of gender planning. Mr President! Finally, I would like to remind you that equality work in educational institutions plays an important role in dismantling the various stereotypes. In order to achieve this in an optimal way, the issue of equality needs to be included more strongly in teacher training and also in teacher training. And, as the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities states in its opinion, practical equality work must be developed at all levels of education from early childhood education to find solutions to the challenges of school and student work arising from gender, learning and other differences at all levels of education. Mr President! Finally, a lot of work has been done on equality issues, but there is still a lot to do. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u112	Madam President! I would like to join Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen in his own speech, firstly in his thanks to the entire office of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality, and precisely in this first edition, that we can now read the whole report. It is truly valuable and highlights all the knowledge and expertise the office has, and also highlights the importance and importance of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality in Finnish society when things arise in the debate, things are talked about, changes are created, there is a need to communicate with someone who can get information and turn to them when they have experienced unequal treatment. One important part, if you look at both that report and the own report of the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, and also the opinion of the Committee on Education and Employment to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, is that there is one important aspect in all of these, which is mirrored, that gender diversity has now been raised in a significant way when it comes to equality and equality between men and women. The importance of the overall reform of the transfiguration is highlighted and it is said that the reform is immediately needed, that it is an integral part of the protection of people in relation to their own identity and gender and equality in Finnish society, whether in employment or in education. I personally think as a representative that this is a significant change, and at least when I read these statements I felt that things were moving forward. I myself think that about five years ago in this house there was a great deal less courage to talk about transgenderity, transgenders or transgenders, their daily lives and their rights. There were many rooms and situations where they were silent because they feared that we were still too scattered about these issues, and we had no knowledge or understanding. I think this is an absolute demonstration that we now know, now we understand, and every time we talk about these things, people's everyday life and reality and identity are becoming more and more visible. Of course, the next important step now is that, when the next government is formed, whatever parties go into that government, it would be firmly committed to the whole reform of the transfiguration and, in particular, to the part and to the consideration of what it means, especially from the perspective of the translators and young people, in what way we also secure for them the safe and good everyday life in which none of them would experience discrimination or bullying, but would be faced by its own identity. The Plan for Gender Equality is an important element in both working life and at all levels of education, the reform of family leave, and it is also important to highlight men and boys and their role in society, to highlight the different taboos or obstacles that may be associated with being a man, which also prevent boys and men from being a visible part of society in a natural way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u113	Madam President! In fact, I would like to address or highlight two points in this report by the Ombudsman for Gender Equality. The second is equal pay. It is known that these pay differentials between women and men have continued to narrow slowly and that in Finland the gap is still around 16 per cent, but then it has to be taken into account that the sectoral and task comparison has come close to each other, that difference is very narrow today or even zero. The most important issues here are, however, these differences between sectors, which then go far back to that history, the 60s to the 50s and the way in which the strong occupational segregation of the various labour markets has developed. On the other hand, we women also have to look in the mirror: what are our wage hopes, whether they are as hard as men, and what career goals we have. Although Finland is a very equal country in terms of women's education and decision-making, we are a long way from many other countries, yet we still have a long way to go to complete equality, and next season's family leave reform will be one way to achieve this equality. Then the other thing is exercise. There too, the pay, the prize issues are still a little unequal, but I would also like to highlight the fact that there are still very few women in managerial positions in the field of sport, and I am encouraging all women to strive for them — we need men and women in a variety of ways, including those in the field of sports. Then maybe I'd like to raise a woman's picture in the media, what it's like out there in sports. There is still a very traditional catalogue where a woman may be seen as this kind of beautiful traveler, and then a man is the winner or author, a hard athlete there. I would like the media to take its strong role in this display of the catalogue and also take responsibility for the fact that that picture of a woman would change in that column of magazines and elsewhere in the media.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u114	Madam President! The report of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality before Parliament is one in which the report of the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities contains an objection from the Finns of Peru. In my opinion, it highlights the negative nature of equality work in schools, for example, and the equality of all people, especially schools, all children and young people, and I think it is necessary to comment on this from the point of view of the educational world, schools. It is true that the new curricula for basic education, which were introduced from 2016 in all our schools in grades 1 to 6, and in the upper grades of basic education in grades 7 to 9, have been phased into this current year by 2019, will also take a strong gender perspective and support equality. The Finnish National Board of Education issued these national curricula in 2014, and the organisers of education, or municipalities, have drawn up their local curricula on the basis of them. The reform of curricula aims to ensure that the skills and skills of Finnish children and young people remain at a good level both nationally and internationally in the future. In addition, the criteria define pedagogical approaches that allow schools to develop their policies in such a way as to maintain the students’ interest and motivation in learning. With regard to this reform of school policies, I would like to raise a few points. National curricula have defined guidelines for developing a school culture with the aim of building an operating culture that promotes learning, inclusion, well-being and a sustainable lifestyle. The principles guiding the development of a culture of activity highlight school as a learning community that creates the conditions for learning together, and the aim is to ensure the well-being and safe everyday life of each student — each student. The development of a school operating culture is also guided by the objective of promoting inclusion and democratic activity in all our schools. Students are given opportunities to participate in the planning and development of school activities. Structures and space are created for participation in the school's everyday life. Furthermore, Mr President, according to our national curricula, the development of a culture of action is guided by the principles of equality and equality. This means that the members of the school community will be treated as equals regardless of any person-related factor. Equal treatment requires that the opportunities for participation be guaranteed for every pupil and that individual needs be taken into account, and I would like to point this out, Mr President, when we discuss the report of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality, on which different positions have been put forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u115	Madam President! The report of the Ombudsman for Equality was recently discussed here and now almost immediately after this report of the Ombudsman for Equal Opportunities and his report. Equality work is important. It is part of one of the tasks of a civilised society to ensure and ensure that equality is achieved. This means everything: the whole population, all kinds of ideas, views, genders and professional groups. Equality must be widely understood. The report does not contain a separate section on the problems of equality experienced by men and boys. I do find this a bit unfortunate, and I would have liked this too to have been treated in this report. I'm sure it'll come later. I believe that there is a sensitive ear in the Ombudsman's office to listen to these speeches and then to take these matters into consideration. On the basis of this report, it seems that, if you look at the expert consultation of the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, the vast majority are focusing on the position of women in society in one way or another. In order to maintain equity, we also need to discuss these issues from the perspective of men and boys. Like this. Today, I would like to draw attention to a concept that this report is full of and is ‘sexual harassment’. It comes out in many forms, in many different ways here. Now a few thoughts about what is sexual harassment of a child and who is considered a child. At least in the Christian Democrats we have received huge contact from schools about the fact that sexual education has started to talk about other gender, gender identity, and then there has been a variety of material available for people under 12 years of age, which has not been available before. Not long ago I learned from a citizen that an 11-year-old had been taught prevention at school and the installation of a condom in his place. This raises the question of where there is a limit to sexual harassment when, however, we have an important common understanding of the need to guarantee peace in growth and development for the child. I repeat: peace in growth and development must be guaranteed. I wonder what this new approach is that a child should not be a child just as long as he wants to be a child. Why is his mindset brought into a thinking and model that is difficult for the older population to understand — or even if it is said that it is not so easy for a non-full-aged 17 to 18-year-old to perceive? In the past, we had the understanding that the sexual awakening of children was protected, protected and thought that it was important to understand that the child should have peace in growth and development. There was a mother who contacted me. She told me about her daughter — she was very young too, under 12 years of age — who had come home from school crying to her mother and asked that Mother, what I am if I am not a girl. My mother asked me, well, where do you get such thoughts from? The teacher at school had said, with the new equality guide, that it is not so sure who you are. Here, when you get such contacts, now without any religious fervor or anything else related to this, I would like society to discuss more about what these age limits are when we bring this debate to the school world. I understand that the aim of this equality guide has been that this equality guide should be made available to all schools and that it will then bring this new gender ideology to light. In a certain way, I understand that it is written in there, but I would like to ask for responsibility for how young people receive such education. I take it as a point of view that when we are currently dealing with, for example, blackmailing sexual offences, the child is defined as under 18 years of age. I mean, we talk about under 18s all the time. When the so-called criminal law defines sexual harassment, we talk about 13 to 15-year-olds. And now that we are considering the penalty scale, we are talking here in particular about how this action has affected the sexual development of the child. Well, now we bring such definitions and concepts to schools under the age of 12 without anyone considering how they affect the child's sexual development. I would like a good and constructive debate in society at all about what are the age limits and stages when we come and — sometimes even at the end of our children’s lives — when they still have their own self-sexuality, knowledge of their own bodies, analysis of their bodies. They reflect on their own development, and then adults bring along elements that adults themselves cannot always fully comprehend for themselves. Mr President! Here, for starters.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u116	Mr President! Mr Laukkanen put forward an important point here as an aspect of the right of children to be a child, and I think it is entirely wrong that such things should clearly start to confuse the heads of young children at school by society. It's not right. We have to fix it. In actual fact, however, I wanted to speak on the issue of the pay gap mentioned in previous speeches, which is, in my view, the same pay for the same work must be paid regardless of gender and other factors. This is clear and simple, it is part of the social balance that we must pursue. The fact that it is stated that the pay gap between sectors and jobs is either small or zero, and the inexplicable pay gap in general is between 3 and 4 per cent, actually shows that, at the moment in Finland, these equality issues in pay are quite good, and I am surprised at this ideologically colored debate about the euro for women, whereas in reality the difference is so small when it comes to the issue of pay. So what is the direct purpose of this discussion? Even when I was working — I worked as a system expert — I was paid less than a female doctor. Is it wrong, then, for a woman to receive a higher salary because her job is different from mine? Should I raise my salary or should this woman's salary be reduced? These are interesting questions which I would be happy to receive from those who think there is a major problem here today. But money is just money, and what we will never get back is time. There is a difference in life expectancy between men and women that this report hardly takes a position on at all. So if we're talking about a woman's euro, why don't we talk about the man's hour? Calculatingly, the man's hour is a little over 55 minutes, and there is no position on this now, which could be the cause of this, or what measures should be taken to remedy this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u117	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Ombudsman for this good report, which has raised these problems of equality, which we should work on together here. After all, equality is not progressing unless we actively work and take measures to promote it. It is not something that we may think we are always moving forward — it is not, but it really requires a determined will to move things forward, and, for example, at the moment equality has taken a step backwards. Finland has fallen into the fourth equality index of the World Economic Forum and is one of the few EU countries where equality of economic and social power has been declining in the last four years. Similarly, according to the European Gender Equality Index, Finland has also taken a step backwards in terms of equality of time, i.e. more and more housework for women, and these are the things in which we have gone backwards over the past four years. There is also talk here about the pay gap between women and men, which is a real problem — the female euro is still 84 cents and the immigrant woman is only 60 cents. And why is that? This is because in Finland the labour market is highly gendered. Compared to the Nordic countries, they are the most gender-sensitive, i.e. in sectors such as care, where there are many women, the wage level is low. This nursing work is not appreciated. This care work has, of course, been on the agenda in this parliamentary debate, for example, how we ensure that the pay level is good in the care of the elderly and that the burden of work is not excessive, as it seems now to be when people do not have enough time to do their job well. It was pointed out that there was no separate section in this report on the problems of equality experienced by men and boys, but they were mentioned there in their own paragraph, and I think this is very good. These are the problems of equality that had been raised there, which affect men and boys in particular, and I am sure that the Ombudsman for Gender Equality will be working on this in the future. In that sense, I believe that this has already been raised to some extent. All in all, this gender diversity and how, for example, in educational institutions this is taken into account are important issues. We have this unfortunate shame, intimate violence and sexual violence, where we should definitely work more in Finland. I hope that we can move forward with these. And this report contains good, concrete recommendations on how we can continue to promote equality, and I really hope that the next government will take these forward, because they will not go forward on their own, they will need political will and strength.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u118	Mr President! Inspired by this debate, I wanted a few ideas to come here and tell you. We still have a lot of work to do to promote equality between men and women, but also social equality in general. The main problem of gender equality, which causes income inequality and exclusion, is unemployment. In everyday working life, we need high-quality equality and equality plans, and I say this because, as required by law, these do not exist in all workplaces as they should be. It is a good tool for promoting equality in everyday life. A few words about the transformation of work and its impact on equality in society. Much is said about the effects of digitalisation, automation, artificial intelligence, robotisation so that the labour market is polarised. There are higher-skilled and higher-income occupations and, on the other hand, women-dominated service occupations, often dominated by lower wages, which cannot be driven abroad. With this change, the share of the average wage and average income may decrease in working life, and this is, of course, a challenge because the average income pay a significant part of our taxes, and this can therefore tear apart the pay gap in a new way. In this respect, the challenges are also quite great. We have a divided labour market in Finland. We have very few sectors and occupations with equal numbers of men and women, and in part it has to do with what has been said here, that we have a fairly large public sector, women-dominated sectors, but these roots are really deep to break down these divided labour markets. But if you think positively, then digitalisation, artificial intelligence, the entry of new technologies into working life will create a lot of jobs and professions that we do not yet know what they are. Must it be a natural law that the occupations of men and women are divided sharply? Women have a higher level of education than men. Why can we not make a major gender change and change, so that these new occupations will be more equal between men and women in the future or have some chance of breaking down these divided labour markets, which, of course, we all hope for here? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u119	Mr President! I believe that many good speeches have been made here and that the right things have been taken into consideration. When it comes to equal pay, I think that Mr Mäkelä's speech was quite good at it, and other speeches also pointed out that perhaps the main reason is that we have too many sectors of men and women, these sectors and occupations have become too sexually involved, and this perhaps explains most of it. It must be acknowledged that, when we look at different professions at the same level of education, such as the male-dominated sectors of industry, the level of pay at the same level of education is clearly better than at the corresponding level of education in the female-dominated sectors. This is a product of history, and it does not change in the moment, but is certainly perhaps the biggest single factor. When we talk more about equality, which often also comes up when we talk about family leave and their division, it is important that we should also be able to change attitudes in working life so that they would encourage — perhaps here I say quite frankly — employers’ attitudes — that men might be more easily placed on family leave. This problem will not be solved by quota in a certain way, because at the moment we have the situation that the small father's quota will not be used for most of it, that is to say we will only use a very small part of it, and that is why I believe that the main issue is the issue of attitude. When we talk about the division of family leave, I myself represent the view that equality does not necessarily come true, even though it appears to be true, if it is divided evenly, but is best achieved when gender as such does not matter who stays at home, but can be freely considered what the family situation is. I know that there are many situations, for example, where it is terribly difficult for a female entrepreneur to put a note on the door and stay away from work for a long time, and then it may have come to the conclusion that it is good for them to stay at home. I myself represent the view that equality is best achieved when both have equal quotas and then there is the largest possible part that can be freely chosen according to the real situation of the family. In this case, it does not matter which sex this person is. The same applies to these issues raised here, for example, the division of housework. The most important thing is that different family members themselves are satisfied with the sharing that is taking place. Finally, Mr President, I would like to raise one more point concerning the number of decision-makers, the number of women in decision-making. This is a more difficult question because, for example, citizens vote freely as MPs and delegates, and it is not necessarily possible to direct them very easily.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u120	Mr President! A few comments: First of all, I would like to say to Mr Laukkanen that I remember a time when it was thought better not to talk to children and young people about sexual matters at all, but the practical experience of Finland has shown that if we want to reduce teenage pregnancies, abortions, venereal diseases and so on, this is exactly the wrong line. You should speak openly, but you must speak in a manner consistent with your child’s age. For example, perhaps today every child - rearing guide gives advice on what to answer when a young child starts asking where the children come from. I also think the same applies to the way in which gender diversity is spoken to people of what age. I do not think it is in itself impossible for a school not to have done this in a clumsy way, in such a way that it may have caused concern in children, but it must be remembered that there are children and young people who do not feel that they can fit into such a dual-boy model, and their confusion in this regard must also be thought of and their development supported, and school education must be developed in the light of this issue. Well, then to Congressman Mäkelä, when he threw this idea of the man's hour in comparison to the woman's euro. This is a good illustration. Congratulations on that. I do not know whether it is invented by Mr Mäkelä or from somewhere else, but it does draw attention to the fact that, quite often, the Finns of Peru are opposed to things that could increase people's lives, such as tightening air pollution limits or reducing the proportion of meat in the diet or favouring public transport and cycling in transport, so that everyday exercise that is essential to our health can be a daily part of an increasing number of lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u121	Madam President! Mr Hassi approached this rather difficult issue very well and, in my opinion, moderately and respectfully. In fact, my focus is precisely on how to secure this peace of growth and development, and it obviously requires individual perception at the teaching head. Of course, we in the Criminal Code are quite clear in that the basis for punishment is that it is considered that an act has made the sexual development of a child difficult and wounded, and I considered it an important discovery for myself, as it were, to expand how well we ensure that our children are allowed to develop according to their own developmental curves and abilities. Then, on this equal pay between women and men, Iceland made quite rapid progress here and passed the law on the fact that it is now punishable there if a woman is paid a different salary from a man, and they showed a model for Europe as a whole here. When I read this text of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality and the text of the committee, I cannot help but marvel at it — perhaps Mr Ihalainen can open it — why trade union movements, when they are as strong in this country as they are, do not stop the whole country and force the whole society to produce legislation to ensure that this issue is dealt with. As long as I have lived and understood this matter, I have heard discussions about it, and I think that this is a disgrace in our society. It shouldn't be like this. I wondered when my mother was a single parent, she had three full - time jobs, received a very small salary for them. Then a stepfather came into the house when I was a teenager, and he did one job and got more pay for one job than Mom did for three. I was surprised at the time, but I was not able to think about it as analytically as I am today. And yes, if the women's movement goes to the barricades, I will be carrying the first sign on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u122	Mr President! Thank you to the Ombudsman for Gender Equality for the report and to the committee for the report. Indeed, the lack of equal pay is one big problem for the Finnish labour market and one big shame for Finnish equality. This is something that must be taken more seriously, not only in the trade union movement, in working life organisations, in the workplace, but also here among the political decision-makers. As such, there is no one thing to solve this. There is a great deal to be said about this gender segregation of sectors and a different appreciation, which will then be reflected in remuneration. In addition to achieving legislative progress, such as in line with the Icelandic model, it would be particularly important to be able to break down the gender gap in the sectors. In fact, sex is already from the childhood, from the models we get, from the models that children are given, what children think, what is possible for them, what are suitable occupations for girls and boys. Gender-sensitive early childhood education and school education are important here. This does not mean that we are getting rid of gender, no, but that we are supporting the child’s own strengths, individual interests. I think that this prevention of sectoral segregation is already leaving. Domestic violence and sexual violence are a major problem in Finland, and it is a gender problem when the majority of the victims are women. Victim support services are still out of order. The additional budget under discussion will help to improve it slightly, but a great deal of additional resources will then be needed for support services and for the prevention of intimate violence and sexual violence. The status of immigrant women is one of those things that requires special attention. It may be based on multiple discrimination on the one hand, gender and ethnicity on the other. It requires special attention from the labour market perspective, for example, but integration also needs to be tailored to meet needs, and this really requires special attention in Finland. When we talk about the problems of equality between men and boys, I am very concerned about this issue of education, that is, that young men are very much behind women at the level of education, and this is, in my opinion, a major social problem. On the other hand, there is also the inequality of parenthood, the position of men in parenthood and, for example, in divorce situations, and the right reform of family leave could strengthen paternity and the position of men in the family, while it could also strengthen the labour market position of women.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u123	Mr President! Now I cannot fully remember whether this concept recognizes a man's own invention, but in terms of equality, one thing is my own invention. So I once said, playfully, that then I believe that a person genuinely favours equality when he presents quotas to women as sewer divers. The fact is that many of these heavy and dirty jobs are very male-dominated, and perhaps we should consider why they have come to this and why women are not prepared to take responsibility for such heavy and demanding professions. As far as wage discrimination is concerned, it is illegal in Finland, at least as far as I am concerned. It is not legal to pay a different salary for the same job, for example on the basis of gender. If you say it's legal, at least I'm in the impression that it's not legal. To Mr Hassi, as a comment on this rather strange idea that the Finns of Finland would oppose things that would raise life expectancy: I thought it was a very special speech. After all, life expectancy in Finland has increased all the time with the development of medicine. In fact, there was a debate here about the difference in life expectancy between the sexes. In my opinion, air pollution affects men as well as women in the same way as life expectancy, and if it were assumed that meat food in itself would reduce life expectancy, or assume that it is now likely to be increased by physical exercise, is there now a great difference between male and female sex in these matters that would explain the difference in life expectancy? Then again, if we were to talk about, for example, drugs or related life - styles where there might be a difference between the sexes, it could make such a difference in life expectancy, but should we not ask why this is so? What would drive men, as sex, more than women to drink, and what should be done about this? That is what I would have liked to hear in this report.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u124	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 40/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u125	Mr President! After all, the change in some of the articles of the Mining Act currently under discussion is due to the government's proposal to amend the Mining Act, i.e. the previous proposal 10/2017, which had also been accompanied by these articles which were now being amended, but at the same time there was a change in the Act on the Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure, which led to the conclusion that, when this process was in progress, it was not at that stage that the articles on these priorities were changed, but Parliament made a unanimous statement that the government would then have to bring them here separately for amendment to Parliament — I would like to emphasise: a unanimous statement. According to this, the government has acted and has brought this proposal, and this has been dealt with in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, to which the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has issued an opinion. When considering the content of this proposal, it is perhaps best described in the title of that paragraph presented for amendment, that is, Article 32, where the title says that ‘preliminary order’. So here we are going to make a small change, mainly to the stage at which the prospecting permit, mining permit or gold-washing permit is given priority to the applicant who applies for it. So the privilege between the actors is now at stake. In addition to hearing the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has heard a significant number of experts and notes in its report on the impact of the proposal, inter alia: ‘The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy stresses that the main objective of the proposal is toimplement the statement referred to above by the Parliament, which has been referred to by reference to,’and that it is possible tosubmit an application for the creation of a preferential right before a The proposal is expected to streamline and speed up licensing processes and reduce the administrative burden on the operator. In the Government proposal, the proposal has not been estimated to have a negative impact on the environmental impact of exploration, mining or gold leaching. However, the proposal estimates that the proposal will allow Natura 2000 evaluation and the Yva report to be carried out within a more flexible timeframe and with a higher quality of implementation." Mr President! That is actually the key message I want to make here. In other words, with minor amendments and appropriate clarifications, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is proposing the approval of this proposal and is really familiar with it. Although I know that when the referral debate on this issue took place, that this gives rise to a great deal of emotion and may have different views on what this is all about, this is the picture that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, after a wide consultation of experts, received.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u126	Mr President! The Government's proposal to amend the Mining Act was not prepared in accordance with normal good practices. The Ministry of Employment and the Economy, which prepared the proposal, did not ask for opinions, and the opinion was not even requested from the Ministry of the Environment, although this bill concerns legislation and procedures on Natura legislation and environmental impact assessment. This is a very limited review of this amendment to the Mining Act only from the point of view of mining companies. There has been little reflection on the environment or inclusion and no proper impact assessments. Mr President! This proposal is justified by the fact that a company that invests funds in a particular area may retain its prerogatives in ore resources, even if it does not have time to prepare the Natura assessments and environmental impact assessments required by the exploration, mining and gold leaching permit. In other words, a privilege is created in relation to competing companies. Due to the lack of preparation of the government proposal, it has remained unclear whether this objective of securing the privilege could have been achieved in another way, e.g. by obtaining an extension of the time limits for applying for a prospecting permit or an actual mining permit for justified reasons. Unfortunately, we do not know this because alternative methods to ensure privilege have not been described. So in future, Mr President, you can apply for a mining permit before the environmental impact assessment has been completed. This is a problem because the environmental impact assessment is the first stage through which residents of the region are officially informed and able to comment on the mining project. In addition, a key feature and key role of environmental impact assessment is the examination of the various project implementation options before determining the actual way in which the project is implemented, and the evaluation should take place at a time when these options are still genuinely open. The results of the Yva and Natura studies and their opinions should already be used during project planning. Now, after this amendment of the law, when an application for authorisation is submitted, one implementation option has already been chosen before the environmental impact of the options has been compared and the various parties consulted. This is the central problem of this legislative amendment. In other words, the central problem is that this change of law in the government proposal threatens to undermine the steering effect of environmental impact assessment and the fundamental importance of its entire law, and so, of course, the threat is that in some cases this could lead to a reduction in the level of environmental protection and consultation of local residents. That is why this bill should not be adopted, but should be rejected. Just as Mr Salmon said, this is the background to the unanimous stance given by Parliament in the past, but it also did not explain these effects and perhaps did not fully understand the relationship between the steering effect of the EIA procedure and its deterioration, and, in addition, since its adoption, these laws relating to the assessment of environmental effects have also been amended. The opinion therefore requires the government to prepare a legislative amendment, but Parliament does not have to accept it if it does not consider it justified. The Left Alliance Parliamentary Group does not consider it justified to adopt this proposed legislative amendment because this preparatory process has been problematic, but also because it is problematic at the level of the principle and undermines the environmental impact assessment procedure and it is possible that in some cases it may then have negative environmental and participatory effects. Mr President! Indeed, this amendment to the Mining Act, which is now under discussion, is very limited. This is a limited issue, and this must, of course, be dealt with as such. Of course, there has been much discussion recently about the need for a broader reform of the Mining Act, which would strengthen the environmental responsibility of mining and mining companies and ensure the tax benefits of society from mining and the exploitation and exploitation of our national assets. That is also what Parliament was committed to when it dealt with CETA, but unfortunately this review of the Mining Act and the proposal to reform it have not been brought to Parliament in accordance with Parliament's obligations. Then perhaps the next government will.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u127	Mr President! As Mr Sarkkinen said earlier, Parliament has unanimously adopted two powerful mining laws. For the second effort, which has been adopted on the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and which states that the Mining Act needs to be reformed before the entry into force of the EU-Canada Trade Agreement, the CETA Agreement, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, has mainly referred down. On the other hand, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy has taken the view that this proposal has certainly not been asked for opinions, not even from any authority, not even the Ministry of the Environment, although, as has already been mentioned here, it is, to a very large extent, also about Natura and environmental impact assessments. The Committee on the Environment has issued an opinion on this draft law, which is by far the most critical of the opinions and reports adopted by the committee during this parliamentary term. I do not know whether the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in this millennium has adopted an opinion as critical as that of the government. In other words, the committee notes, first of all, that this is going in a different direction from the reform of the Mining Act in 2011, with the aim of improving the quality of applications and of submitting applications as fully as possible. The Committee on the Environment also notes that the reasoning behind this government's proposal is contradictory. On the other hand, the real point that this bill has been made is that a mining company which has been searching for ore in some region would retain a privileged position vis-à-vis its competitors to use its territory, even if it did not have time to complete an environmental impact assessment within the time limit of the current law, but this matter has not actually been examined in the explanatory memorandum of the proposal, but instead it is claimed that this would lead to an improvement in the environmental impact assessment. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection notes that these arguments are contradictory, if not incorrect. The committee also notes that, on the basis of the arguments put forward in the government proposal, it is impossible to assess the need for this proposal. The committee also notes what Mr Sarkkinen said above that the environmental impact assessment is the first official issue through which the residents of the region, environmental organisations and others, as well as others, can be informed of a mining or gold-washing project. The key idea of the environmental impact assessment is to consider options. Well, if a mining application is submitted, then at that point one option has already been chosen, for example, as to where to place the dumping areas and where to dig, and so on, all these solutions that need to be made when planning the well. So there is a risk that they will be chosen when the environmental impact of the options is still being weighed. The Committee on the Environment also notes that, in a way, the actual steak on the basis of which this is presented, i.e. that the mining company, which has worked in a particular region, retains the privilege of exploiting its competitors in that area, could perhaps be carried out in some other way, but these options have not been considered in order to achieve its actual objective. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection notes that the lack of consultation has also left the Government's proposal technically uncompleted. The proposal contains a lot of typographical errors, references to parliamentary documents are technically incorrect, the parallel text is incorrect, the paragraphs contain both factual and technical errors, and the arguments are internally contradictory. For example, Article 34(2)(2) of the proposal. There is no verb in the sentence. The Committee on the Environment also notes that the need for reform of the Mining Act should be examined more extensively. And, Mr President, if this reference to the opinion of the Committee on the Environment is not sufficient to justify why this government proposal should be rejected, then the rest of the arguments put forward by Mr Sarkkinen have already come up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u128	Mr President! As I said in the referral debate at the time, this presentation does leave a bit of a bad taste in the sense that this was not exactly what was expected. It was expected that there would be a great deal of tightening up, but now there was a slight loosening of this mining law and then, in addition, these shortcomings and errors mentioned by Mr Hassi in the legal and written sense, which are unfortunately familiar to me, among other things, with the preparations made by the Ministry of Transport. Apparently, they're everywhere else. I would like to make a point about this report. In other words, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy stresses that the regulation proposed here concerns the reform of the Mining Act only in relation to the statement referred to above by Parliament, but it says that it does not take a broader view of the need to reform the Mining Act. However, my own view of the statement that was adopted when the CETA Agreement was adopted is that it would have looked more closely at these needs for change. Government and Minister According to Lintilä’s interpretation, this would not be the case. The committee now states that such an examination would be necessary at all, but it is not being done anything about it now. In other words, the committee does not make a statement obliging the government to do this kind of preparation, which in my opinion sounds more like avoiding the subject and a direct farce than anything else. I therefore support the objection that the Mining Act should have been examined in greater detail and this proposal, as it stands, must be rejected. It is now extraordinary and frightening that our national ownership in soil minerals and our environment is not better protected from international profit interests.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u129	Mr President! Now we are dealing with the government proposal and the report by the Economic Committee on the partial reform of the Mining Act, and it is true what Mrs Salmon said about the fact that Parliament once required that this issue be dealt with separately, as it were, on an encapsulated scale. That is true in itself, but when the Committee on the Environment received the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on this method of preparation and process, it also occurred to me a little that this was poorly prepared in the legislative sense and that it was not necessary for all important parties to be consulted. The best way would have been to re-establish this, but the timetables — in view of the parliamentary part-session — did not allow for such a procedure, so the arguments which have now been put forward here that this does not comply with the drafting of good legislation and has not been asked for opinions are only a good reason to say that this would not be feasible as the committee has now done. However, I would draw attention to the fact that I do not think that mining in Finland has no future. It is one part of industrial policy and part of our business cluster. Of course, mining must have a strong environmental and social responsibility perspective, but also an industrial policy perspective. It is also possible for Finland to be able to use the value chain associated with the growing need and processing of battery metals, for example. Two plants are now emerging in Finland, but there are very few battery plants in Europe, the first building in Sweden. 80% of batteries come from Asia and raw materials from other parts of the world, so there are also good opportunities for electrification of transport, environmental policy, and the value added of mining in Finland can be increased in the future. I would now like to point out that, since it does not make sense for us to take this proposal forward, but should be rejected, we need to take a responsible approach to mining, which has this kind of social acceptability and regional acceptability, in Finland in a responsible way. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, in the context of this free trade agreement between Canada and the EU, in May 2018, it was indeed required for the Government to assess the need for amendments to the Mining Act and, as has been shown here, this proposal has not been brought here. Therefore, our group also agrees that this proposal in this form — due to poor preparation — should be rejected, and also shares the idea that, for reasons of timetable, any changes, proposals for such an overall assessment and renewal of the Mining Act will certainly be passed on to the next government. With regard to this, I would just like to say that, of course, with regard to this kind of preparation, all the self-respecting parties who are aiming at the government have been thinking about what should be done here, and much is being discussed about the operating conditions for mining, the mining tax, the mining fund, land-use planning and so on, and they are probably all themes that will be weighed down in this context. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we have mining activities in a reduced rate of energy taxation during this term of government. During the previous government period, it was in the general energy tax rate. If it were now in the general energy tax rate, then its revenue would be for the government... That loss is now about EUR 20 million. So this alternative to mining tax would probably be something to think about, but it probably does not make sense to implement both at the same time. However, Mr President, this is already a reflection on what all the other parties are probably doing to develop a new mining law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u130	Madam President! I must begin by saying that when we had a referral debate on this amendment to the two articles of the Mining Act at the end of last year and I remember the arguments raised by the content of that debate and its government proposal, I was very surprised to read the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which has been accepted by all the representatives of the government parties as such. The extract from that opinion is as follows: ‘The committee considers the proposed amendment to be acceptable in principle. However, the proposed law must be corrected as further proposed.’ And then: ‘The committee considers that the aim of the government’s proposal is only to safeguard the order of precedence,not to propose any better The importance and need for a right of priority has not been addressed in the Government proposal at all.” And when we remember that referral debate, we were talking about arguments other than this privilege, and so the committee’s opinion says: ‘The proposal is intended to explain that the purpose of the change is to better and more qualitatively take account of the need to coordinate protection and other interests. The committee considers the arguments to be misleading, if not wrong, in this regard, because it stresses that the proposal does not affect anything other than the right of priority.’ That is what this opinion says, and this is what the representatives of the government parties in the Committee on the Environment have said, and so am I. Mr President! There has been no consultation on this government proposal, but at least the committees have heard expert opinions. The Association of Local and Regional Authorities raised an important point of view which I myself would like to raise here. When the Mining Act was last adopted in 2011, the main objective of the Act was to secure the conditions for mining and exploration in a socially, economically and ecologically sustainable manner. As Mr Ihalainen pointed out in his speech earlier, this society needs mining, but with these framework conditions, economically, ecologically and socially sustainable mining must be carried out. The goal of 2011 was also to ensure the empowerment of municipalities, to ensure legal certainty and to take into account the requirements of civic engagement and participation. Well, it is now the case that the local community's influence has proved weak in the system of the Mining Act, including in the case of municipalities, within the framework of the current law. During the implementation of this Act of 2011 there have been problems in safeguarding the influence of municipalities, and citizens' involvement and participation requirements have also been strongly criticised by citizens. According to this amendment to the two articles before the Government, the following documents and information would not be required to accompany the submission of an application for a mining permit if they were to be included later in the environmental impact assessment report or in the Natura evaluation. The following would therefore not be necessary: a map of the site in the form of official coordinates and digital format indicating the location and boundaries of the site; location of operations in the mining permit area; property data of the mine affected area; an inventory of restrictions on the area under the Nature Conservation Act, the Wilderness Act and the Ancient Memorial Act; an account of the special conditions for the Sámi home region and the special reindeer management area; Specific conditions for Finland’s economic zone or border zone; an explanation of how the cessation of operations and the follow-up measures will be implemented. Mr President! This information would therefore not have to be included in the mining permit application if this government proposal were to be implemented in the future. Mr President! As regards the environmental impact assessment procedure, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities in an expert consultation with the Economic Committee stated: ‘The evaluation carried out following the submission of an application to the authorising authority does not allow,for However, the purpose of the environmental impact assessment procedure is an open and proactive interaction procedure with genuinely open options.’ As we have already heard in previous speeches, there is a fundamental difference between the current situation: that predictability, predicament, would disappear. The Economic Committee also heard of Ismo Pölö, a professor of environmental law, who was familiar with mining law and mining issues, who began with a single position: ‘The amendments to the regulation in the Government’s proposal have mainly been presented as technical changes and their obvious adverse effects have not been addressed. The proposed regulation would significantly undermine the functioning of the Natura and environmental impact assessment.’ Mr President! I myself wondered on the basis of what, and on what basis, the government's proposal stated that this would have no effect, at least no adverse effects, on the environment, since there was once no opinion, not even an opinion from the Ministry of the Environment. Mr President! In terms of environmental impact, the differences in the government proposal for two different draft laws can be summarised as follows: The one-stop-shop legislation in this house assumes that the project manager will, in all circumstances, draw up an environmental impact assessment report before submitting an application for authorisation, which can therefore be used to finalise project planning and select alternatives in order to promote environmental protection. In this Government proposal, the changes to Articles 32 and 34 of the Mining Act are exactly the opposite. The proposed amendment to the Mining Act would deviate from this legislative model and allow for the submission of an application for authorisation even before the evaluation report is completed. In this case, the environmental impact would not be fully known. There is quite a contradiction here between the two government bills, and I warmly support the rejection of this bill on the amendment of the two articles of the Mining Act. It has been prepared in an even substandard way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u131	Mr President! The problems of this proposal have been well highlighted here, both in this process, how this has been done, when this has only been dealt with as a technical change, which it is certainly not, and there has not been a request for opinions, as well as in this content, where there are major problems and contradictions, for example, with regard to other government projects such as this one-stop shop principle and related legislation. And the biggest problem lies in the fact that environmental impact assessment is a tool for making and considering choices on how to implement the project in order to minimise the impact on the environment. After all, environmental impact assessments make different models and then consider which one of them is chosen and started to be implemented in such a way that the environmental impact is not unduly high. And now, if you think that this impact assessment can only be carried out later when you have already made that choice in practice, it will completely lose its meaning. In addition, environmental impact assessment is also important in the sense that it is already being carried out in the early stages so that both residents and other parties in the region can influence it and get involved in the process. All of this now disappears if the impact assessment can only be carried out afterwards at the end of the process. Secondly, from the point of view of the applicant, it is also a bad option that the Natura evaluation should only be carried out at a later stage, because it may reveal such absolute obstacles to the whole project, and in that case the applicant has put resources into it in vain if only then it becomes clear that it is not possible to proceed with the Natura legislation to prevent the whole project from being taken forward. It is, therefore, strange to bring these two articles here separately now, as we know that we need an overall assessment of mining legislation. In fact, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy has now appointed a rapporteur, Pekka Vihervuori, to carry out an analysis of this kind, to assess the functioning of the Mining Act and other legislation related to mining, and the interim report is due to come as early as 15.4. and then the final report on 15 June. In other words, all these things, if it is necessary — thinking of the need for some sort of reflection on the interests of mining companies — can then be done at a time when the whole legislation is being considered as to what needs are involved. We know that mines now speak a lot of Finns, there are lots of such things that people feel unfair about, and that is why it would be smart to make those possible changes then at the same time, wondering how we will ensure,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u132	Mr President! It is true that this government proposal has not been preceded by a separate consultation, but, in the interests of honesty, as I said in the previous speech, this change of exactly the same content was included in the previous government proposal 10/2017, and it was in it in its entirety that these articles also took place in the consultation. When they were not specifically paid attention at the time and they were removed from the proposal here in Parliament's deliberations and, at the same time, unanimously agreed that they should be brought here separately, I would not go to the government myself to accuse it of having brought these proposals, if it is the unanimous position of Parliament and they have been in a separate package of opinions. I understand that there may be a difference of opinion on this, and the consultations have been critical, but perhaps this should have been resolved in Parliament in another way, because the government has only acted in accordance with the unanimous position of Parliament. I would also like to say that, when we talk about legislation on mining, it is quite clear that the next parliamentary term and the government programme will certainly need to write down records and change needs here, but often in public debate and also with the public, it is perhaps the mining law that is being misrepresented, because if we think about mining itself, then the environmental protection law has actually become its main law. That is why it is important that, when we look at the legislative reforms in this mining sector, we not only look at the Mining Act because it is quite recent and there is little experience of it — one mine that is not yet in operation has been authorised under this current law — but rather look at the whole. A possible mining tax has also been raised here. I am also in favour of it, but it must come after thorough preparation. In my opinion, Mr Ihalainen said very well that when we had this separate electricity tax on mines — it has now left — there may not be too many of these on top of each other, because it is important for us to ensure that when these ecologically, socially and economically sustainable conditions are met here too, it is worth doing mining in Finland. We know these electronic devices that we ourselves use, and they require, among other things, cobalt. 60 percent of it is mined from the Congo at the moment in the world, and it is estimated that up to 20 percent of it comes from such craft mines with inhumane conditions. It is therefore ethically right to support Finnish mining, especially sustainable mining, and therefore it is not wise to impose a separate electricity tax there, because it slows these mines down more and more into carbon neutrals, but rather to impose a reasonable-sized tax, which is directed to the locality and which is based, for example, on the net return from ore. There is a key figure for this in the mining sector, a net smelter return, and it could be a reasonable basis to which this is directed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u133	Mr President! When this type of proposal was prepared some years ago and in interministerial discussions, the Ministry of the Environment wrote a stunning negative statement about it. It is difficult for me to believe that the Ministry of Employment and the Economy did not know this when this bill is being prepared. I can also imagine, of course, that, when the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy wrote the position that justified this bill, the committee might not have been aware of the negative opinion issued by the Ministry of the Environment. I would also like to draw attention to the point I raised last week in the plenary debate when we discussed the so-called one-stop-shop authorisation package on the basis of the report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. In the government's proposal, which has been prepared extensively in cooperation with different stakeholders and for which there is no greater disagreement, it is possible to combine the environmental impact assessment and then the actual authorisation process in cases where an alternative review of the environmental impact assessment is not feasible, i.e. in cases where there is only one option in practice, for example when applying for a further permit for an activity that already exists. But instead, this government proposal is based on the fact that even in cases where there are several options for action and the purpose of Yva is, among other things, to examine the environmental impact of these different exchanges, so that it can then be selected as the smartest one, an application for authorisation can be submitted, which means that one policy option has already been chosen before this review of options, which is central to the environmental impact assessment, has been carried out. I would also like to stress that, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, no one in itself questioned the fact that it would not be justified for a mining company to retain, in some way, the privilege of making use of a site, even if it was not possible to complete it by the deadline for its application for authorisation, but would there be other ways, such as the possibility of an extension of the deadline for justified reasons? Such procedures would then have lower environmental risks.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u134	Madam President! It is not entirely true that this amendment to Article 32 and Article 34 did not raise a debate there already in the previous round in 2017. In March 2017, at the time of the previous proposal, the Committee on Economic Affairs has heard, among other things, the Ely Centre of Lapland, which already pointed out that the justification of the proposed section 34 leaves open the question of how the provision would improve the authorisation process or speed up the issue of authorisation on which this bill was justified. And the Ely Centre also stated that when activities under the Mining Act are directed at the Natura 2000 site and other nature reserves, this means, in the authorisation exercise under the Mining Act, taking into account the mandatory nature protection regulation. In addition, the Ely Centre pointed out that the Natura 2000 evaluation and opinion procedure under the Nature Conservation Act may also lead to the conclusion that a mining project under the Mining Act significantly reduces the natural values that are the basis for the protection of the Natura site, so that the mining project could only be implemented through an exemption procedure. Yes, these issues were raised even then in 2017, while the previous bill was here. I would like to say, Mr President, that this is now a question of making procedures under the Mining Act more flexible, at the expense of environmental protection and the ability of residents, communities and municipalities to influence the affected area. This bill also undermines public confidence in mining and its environmental procedures. And you would think that this is not anyone's aim if we want to maintain sustainable mining in this society. Therefore, if mining legislation is not to be undermined in terms of environmental protection, municipalities, landowners and other interested parties and communities, this government proposal should be rejected as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u135	Mr President! It is certainly true that this Government proposal of 10/2017, which originally included these changes to the articles, probably sparked a debate. But it is true that it was unanimously accepted that you should bring these two articles here, and that is why, as I said earlier, I would not reproach the government for doing what Parliament has imposed. On the contrary, in many cases a government can be criticised for not bringing it, even though Parliament has required it. However, I would like to continue with that speech by Mr Hassi. I think it was a good idea that this privilege can also be safeguarded in another way. It is now obvious that in the next government negotiations these issues will be discussed and something will certainly be included in the government programme. If, for example, changes are made to these paragraphs, one option would be — when we know that exploration is not only a very large activity requiring capital but also a very long-term activity, and we are currently in a situation where a permit for exploration is granted in certain periods of years, 4 years, 3 years, 3 years, 3 years and 2 years, i.e. a total of 15 years — that one might consider whether it would be reasonable for all parties to have a permit for exploration, such as 5, 5 and 5, which would not have to be constantly on their toes. On the other hand, an extension could also be granted, for a kind of justified reason after consideration, and could be based, for example, on the need to complete these EIA processes before having to submit an application for a mining permit. In this way, the prospector, who has often spent perhaps tens of millions of dollars on it, would retain its prerogative over other actors in this way. So I think this kind of change just fine could be done and achieved through the same type of space that is now being sought. However, I would not go overboard with the environmental or other effects of this proposal, even if, as Mr Hassi said, the application is accompanied by a form of implementation. When the Yva is completed and there are different options, the hearing became very clear, the representatives of the Ministry of the Environment also confirmed that there is of course nothing to prevent it from being supplemented or modified in this regard in order to make use of the most recent data relating to the Yva and the consultation in that application and the final application. And that too must be borne in mind that, before any authorisation is granted, all the Yva processes, the consultation processes, must have been properly carried out, and this does not have any effect on their content in itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u136	Mr President! It sounds as though if this government proposal were withdrawn and rejected, a compromise proposal could be obtained in cooperation with the same objectives but in such an acceptable way and in consultation with the various parties in advance. A significant difference between this Government’s proposal and the objectives of the Yva Act is now linked to that Article 15 of the Yva Act, which states that the central objective is that the evaluation procedure should be carried out ‘at the earliest possible stage of planning’ in the case of alternatives. That's exactly what would change. As far as this unanimous statement of Parliament is concerned, it is quite true that this has happened. In my view, in this debate, no one has questioned or reproached the government for acting in accordance with its parliamentary statement, but has criticised the way in which these two articles of law were prepared and their effects have been taken into account and the justification for these legislative changes, where there have been significant shortcomings in expert opinions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u137	Mr President! It is certainly the case that there could be a common model here, but we have at the stage of the process that the government has followed the will of the Parliament, the unanimous will mode, brought in the very passages that Parliament required in that effort. And everyone understands that, at this stage, of course, no changes can be made; this has gone through the committee process. I see for myself that even if this were accepted — and when this will be accepted in this Parliament with the highest probability — there will be no problem and no damage. If we look at the wider change to the mining legislation, including the fact that precise corrections will certainly be made to the Mining Act, then we can certainly consider in this context the various instruments which would enable us to achieve this sensible objective, namely that of securing this front right, perhaps better, if we want it to be possible to say that it is possible to obtain a permit or to submit an application for a permit before the Yva process is completed. It has to be acknowledged that there is a certain contradiction here when we have processes going on here which aim at this one-stop shop principle and the integration of these licensing processes in such a way that we can carry out in one process, for example, all the consultations on the law on the project. And that would make sense from the point of view of the people of the region too, that for them this process would not be too complex and complex and that everyone would know that at this stage all these things can be said at the same time, and not that, for example, the people around us are constantly on their toes and spending time on different processes. It would seem that there could be a common goal that progress should be made here too, and there is a slight contradiction here, and this must be acknowledged.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u138	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. At first reading, Parliament agreed with the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the rejection of the bill contained in the citizens' initiative. Parliament's statements are now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u139	Mr President! The non-for-sale citizens' initiative under discussion is very welcome and very important, and it is great that the initiative has received an appropriate reading and positive reception in Parliament. Although the initiative is technically rejected, its content is progressing through the statements that are now being decided upon. These statements will oblige the future government to act and to make the necessary legislative changes in order to advance the content of the initiative. Mr President! No one in Finland is allowed to be for sale, and people must have the right and the opportunity to decide on their own life-long services and their own housing. Competition for disabled people's life-long services must therefore be stopped. Competitive procurement excludes people from legal remedies, is admitted to trading, is not self-involved and is without sufficient scope for influence. Competition should therefore be stopped, but competition will not be resolved by the exclusion of the lifelong services of people with disabilities from the scope of the procurement law. That would only make these tendering procedures illegal. Competition must be prohibited by amending social and health care legislation in such a way that it is established that these services are organised in a different way than through competitive tendering. It is clear, as such, that, if these services are to be competitive, they must be carried out in accordance with the Procurement Act, which is based on the Procurement Directive. But the Member States have no obligation to organise these services specifically through competitive tendering, so the objective of this initiative can be achieved by amending the laws, although this proposed amendment to the procurement law is not in itself the way it is. Mr President! Even the current law would allow municipalities to organise these essential services for a lifetime other than competitive tendering, but still very much price-intensive competitions are being carried out in municipalities today, where quality often suffers. And in any case, when the tendering procedure provides services, this target person is excluded from legal proceedings and participation. Mr President! The next Parliament must ensure that the matter proceeds into legislation during the next parliamentary term, in accordance with the spirit of the initiative and the positions of the Parliament. It's time to put a stop to today's screaming.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u140	Mr President! Although the proposal for a decision is now somewhat harshly technically rejecting the citizens' initiative, there are still a number of important points in the Committee's proposals to address the problems and shortcomings raised in this citizens' initiative. It is sad in itself that these issues have not been taken into account before, even though the committee itself states, among other things, that Finland has ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and that this Treaty obliges the full participation of persons and other matters to be promoted. On the other hand, it is also stated that the Constitution also states that such housing issues are subject to special protection. However, such shortcomings still exist and need to be changed by the citizens' initiative. In some ways it is sad to report on our legislative process. This is not a question of tendering any snowing to a municipal depot, but of services that are essential to people's everyday lives. It is a fundamental security that will be undermined if these services are put out to tender and the providers are changed arbitrarily. These matters should have been dealt with earlier, and hopefully now they will be dealt with as quickly as possible by the incoming Parliament and the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u141	Mr President! People with disabilities, like all of us, have a right to a good life. At the moment, this right is not being fulfilled, because there are serious problems in tendering for life-long and essential services for people with disabilities. These constant calls for tenders violate the continuity of care, and when the price is highlighted at the expense of quality and even disabled people themselves do not have sufficient influence in the choice of these services, the result is that the services do not meet the need and the well-being and health of disabled people suffer. It is therefore extremely important that the citizens' initiative: We haven't had a hearing here for sale. Although this citizens' initiative is not being adopted as it is, there are very important increases in how we should act in the future so that we can overcome this problem so that we can also guarantee people with disabilities life-long services that are long-term, safe and do not bring about continuous changes in everyday life. This is an issue that must be corrected without delay in the next Parliament, because it is quite clear that we must ensure that every disabled person has the right to good services and is also entitled to influence them themselves. That is why I am pleased that, although this citizens' initiative is technically rejected as such, this substance is common to us and that all parties are committed to promoting it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u142	Mr President! I think that all the above speeches have been very good. It is easy to share the idea that, although this is not technically acceptable and rejected, there is a very important and valuable idea behind it that competition should not be carried out in such a way that, in practice, it would mean that the home is constantly changing and that it itself is not able to influence these issues. This situation is often quite different for these people than for others. They are often much more sensitive to changes in the environment, and when we talk about people who are unable to defend their own interests, at least in these situations I myself assume that we decision-makers must feel special responsibility and ensure that not only individual cases but also the structures created by legislation are such that their perspective, the issues and safety that are important in their lives, are adequately taken into account in legislation. I would also like to say here that, although the social and regional reform currently under discussion here in the heavy parliamentary process contains a lot of blame for the freedom of choice, there is a very positive aspect in it that this kind of tendering would then be eliminated if this reform were to be carried out. Then the elderly, the disabled, their loved ones, in fact, all those who use the services would be much better able to influence for themselves what is the unit and place of residence. All would be put on the same line and would have to compete with the best customer experience, and there are certainly positive features here. It can be said that in this regard too, the present system presents problems and that what has been envisaged, with all the challenges, would, however, be a major step forward from the current situation for these people who are affected by this citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u143	Mr President! Unfortunately, I was unable to attend the first reading of the citizens' initiative, but fortunately I still have time for the Chamber, because this is so important and the situation in which we are now, after a lengthy start. I myself have been the protector of this citizens' initiative and have done, can you say, in fact, the work I have been working with various organisations of people with disabilities and with different families with disabilities, and have encountered the everyday situations that have led to competitive tendering, especially in the case of housing services. These situations have been major tragedies for families, and concern has, of course, been expressed about changing the permanent environment and home and about changing people and carers who bring security. I also think that this citizens' initiative is an expression of the power of the citizens' initiatives. In the last term, we are trying to address this issue in the revision of the Procurement Act, as if we were looking for solutions to change the legislation so that it would not happen what happened in practice around Finland in these competitive situations. Well, the procurement law was clarified, but despite the fact that practices have still been such that disabled people and their families ended up with disability organisations taking such a citizens' initiative. Fortunately, the discussion of the citizens' initiative was taken seriously in Parliament. I myself was able to make an opinion in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and there we worked very hard to obtain a unanimous opinion — and an important statement in the sense that, although this genuine citizens' initiative was originally taken in a single piece of legislation, it was later, of course, also clarified, so we wanted to take a broader look at it. And now the working group is starting its work, wondering what different legislative needs we have in order to influence the fact that the home of people with disabilities and vulnerable people is not subject to repeated competitive tendering. I hope that this working group will complete its work as quickly as possible and that the next government will genuinely take the steps that will then change direction in Finland in the future. This also requires action other than personal budgeting, which was raised in the previous speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u144	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u145	Mr President! As in the previous debate on this issue, I would like to thank the Government for this proposal and the committee for its consideration in due course. Of course, this comes a little late, like the other legislative proposals that have been promised in this same series, and perhaps a little gentle and focused only on immediate military and border security, but it will come anyway. I think it is right to demand loyalty to Finland. The importance and concept of dual citizenship should be considered at such a broader level. I do not think it should be available just like that without justification. For a foreigner, Finnish citizenship is not a right but a privilege.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u146	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the Defence Forces Act so that only a person who does not have the nationality of another State or any other foreign relationship within the meaning of the Security Clearance Act could be appointed to a military post in the Defence Forces, which could jeopardise state security, public security, national defence or international relations in Finland or security of service in the Defence Forces. The importance of dual citizenship may vary depending on the nationality of the State concerned. Similar changes are also proposed to the Law on the National Defence College and the Law on the Administration of the Border Guard in respect of the Border Guard’s military post and students selected for the basic course of the Border Guard. As a result of the tasks of Finnish military defence, the person appointed to the military office of the Defence Forces must be absolutely loyal to the State of Finland. The appointment must therefore be made subject to particularly high standards, since persons appointed to the military post of the Defence Forces and the Border Guard have access to information critical to national security. According to the Security Clearance Act, foreign relationships refer to the current and previous citizenship of a person, the employment of another State, the participation in economic activities in another State, wealth, close relationships with nationals of another State, or other interests. So it's a very wide-ranging whole, but it's a big one too. The impact of dual citizenship may therefore vary depending on the nationality of the State concerned in the security rules. Similarly, the explanatory memorandum states that EU citizenship, i.e. situations in which a person has a nationality of another Member State, is excluded from the settlement of foreign interests required by the European Union security rules. This approach should, as a general rule, also be taken into account when considering eligibility for military office. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs points out that it is somewhat unclear from the point of view of regulatory accuracy what kind of foreign interests may jeopardise public security, international relations in Finland or security of service. It has been stated in the report that it is not possible in advance to define exhaustively what kind of foreign interests jeopardise the interests to be protected. Whether or not the other State recognises dual citizenship and the obligations arising from the citizenship of another State may be relevant. They may conflict with a person’s duties in Finland. It may also be a matter of personal security, not being subjected to unwitting pressure. Finally, Mr President, in the view of the committee, this is ultimately a conflict of interest between states and not a matter of individual trustworthiness or questioning it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u147	The 13th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u148	Mr President! Brexit is approaching, and the fear of the Eurofederals that the country will not swallow Britain with it is growing. Now even recently in France, silent President Macron has inspired his few Finnish fans with the horror of Brexit. What example would it set if you could survive outside the EU? This bill will help to show that the means of action can also be found without the EU. There is also a great deal of other preparation for this so-called non-contractual separation, and the means for trade policy, customs policy and border policy will be found in practice. The intensity of defence cooperation and cross-border trade is too great that, ultimately, this so-called EU cooperation will greatly undermine them. This shows that intimidation of Brexit and subsequent EU differences is completely pointless.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-05-ps-170.u149	Partly for a single, partly second reading will be presented on the 14th item in the order of business. First, on the basis of the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, TAVM 38/2018 is decided on the basis of a single reading of the agreement and then on the legislative proposals at second reading.
