ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u1	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 8/2019 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 12 November 2019. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u2	Mr President! I will make a motion for a change in section 1 of the protest from the Finns-of-past-past.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u3	Mr President! I'm in favour of a representative. Juvose's amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u4	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate ended on 12 November 2019 in the plenary session The debate, supported by Mia Laiho Pia Kauman, has been followed by a motion for a statement in accordance with protest 1 and by Arja Juvonen, supported by Minna Reijose, has objected to protest 2 on 1, 2 and 4. a proposal for a statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u5	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the proposals for statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u6	The 6th issue of the daily order is the topical debate on the construction of a more child-friendly and family-friendly Finland. The first speech of the topical and urgent debate will be taken by the first signatory of the initiative, Mrs Kalli. Krista Kiuru, Minister of Family and Basic Services, will speak. Then, in the order that I am considering, I will give you answers, not more than two minutes. Responses will be reserved for the plenary session by V-button. We'll have 1 hour for the conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u7	Mr President! Father will pack his shopping at the store’s cashier, take a look at his watch and sigh: Food is still to be made, dishes will not be washed, and laundry will not be washed. Larger children must be informed of the school's photography and the youngest must be provided with a maternity and child health clinic appointment. You don't have the nerve to ask for help, and your grandparents live far away. Maybe that'll make it easier. He'll think. At the same time, there has been a payday: rent and other bills have been paid. The mother wonders if she and her daughter need to talk about either stopping dancing or playing the piano. There's not enough money for both, sometimes not for everything that's necessary. [Fresh—The President-in-Office] Mr President! These situations are familiar to many Finns. Well, everyday life often seems to be quite a survival. Finland has moved forward on a number of issues. However, the construction of a child- and family-friendly society is still very much under way. There is at least room for improvement in the livelihood of families, in coping with everyday life, in reconciling work and family life, and in the attitudes and values of society. Poverty among families with children is one of the more serious problems in this country. The central objective is to eliminate poverty in families with children. Next year, the smallest parental allowances and child allowances will be increased. It does not remove poverty yet, but it is a step in the right direction. After the birth rate has been calculated, less money will be spent on child allowances. Could we decide together to spend this money saved from the fall in the birth rate on a substantial increase in child supplements in the future? [Interpreting—Department :Payment of posters! ] Of course, the most effective remedy for poverty is work. The goal of the city centre is that every parent looking for a job can get a job. There's nothing less we can do. The poverty of families with children must also be tackled by means of social security reform. There shall be no gaps in the safety net. In many homes, too, endurance is a test. Families need more low-threshold services, which is why the activities of family centres need to be expanded and services taken home improved. In municipalities and cities, the provision of a service voucher for the parents of the baby family could be widely tried. For example, it must be possible to ask for and receive everyday help for cleaning or childcare without stamps or acute problems. The threshold is exactly allowed to be low; it needs to be made new normal. Perhaps the biggest change is needed in attitudes and atmosphere.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u8	Mr President! I would like to thank the initiative makers for this opportunity to discuss in Parliament the construction of a more child-friendly and family-friendly Finland. There is an order for a discussion initiative — more should be said about family policy. This debate initiative also contains a fine principle, which can be found in the text of the debate initiative. It says, however, that the birth rate does not rise by guilt. I myself think that when discussing family policy and birth rate, this does not get better, but by genuinely appreciating other points of view. I think this crystallizes nicely in that discussion initiative. Having children is a personal choice that society can and must support through a wide range of family policies. Birth is a matter of child- and family-friendly society as a whole, not just the individual desire, benefit or service of the citizens. The experiences and wishes of families with children should be heard, studied and developed in order to make everyday life smoother. Family-friendlyness is not only the responsibility of the Government's Minister for Family and Basic Services, but it is the responsibility of all of us, colleagues — as you can see, there are other family ministers here from their own sector — and it belongs to everyone in the decision-making process at home and in the workplace. The Government Programme sets out the principle that ‘the number of children they wish to receive is supported’. Many have wondered what this means, why this was recorded. Personally, I think it's a rather brilliantly simple phrase. So it tells us that we support people towards the number of children they want. I think it sums up something beautiful about social policy, that we are trying to break down the tide of child dreams. It is not our job to exert pressure, but to help people overcome obstacles. And, of course, a big obstacle to child dreams is a livelihood, which must be recognised. By a large majority of children and young people things are good and even better than ever in the history of Finland. Nine out of ten children are content with their own lives, have friends and hobbies, and are able to discuss their affairs with their parents. But in the same breath, it has to be said that unfortunately not everyone in society has been able to offer this. Yes, the well-being of children and young people has been unequaled over the years, and not everyone has been so fortunate. Some are feeling better, but not everyone is involved in this development. Some of them are really sick. In 2017, some 150,000 children lived in poor families in this country. It'll draw us quiet. Two fifths of the parents of four - year - old children feel that the family’s financial situation is at most moderate, and one tenth of them have been afraid of food running out in the last year. It is easy to understand in such situations that the dependency of society is not the biggest concern after all. In order to reduce the poverty of families with children, the Government proposes to increase basic security from the beginning of 2020, i.e. minimum sickness and parental allowances and the level of basic unemployment benefits. In addition, child support and child allowances for single-parent families and families with multiple children are proposed to be increased. This consistent work to combat poverty in families with children should continue. Both benefits and services should be developed at the same time to support children and families. High-quality child and family services are created by cooperation between a large group of professionals. The service includes both education and social and health services, the activities of organisations and parishes, but also the adult services necessary for the parents of the family. Mr President! Finnish comprehensive school is one of the crown jewels of our society, which, together with early childhood education, creates the basis for civilization and growth. The subjective right to early childhood education and the reduction of group sizes is a strong positive message from this government for children and families. Child and family services will also be developed through the change programme for child and family services launched during the last Government term. In particular, this work will strengthen family centres, much needed early support and low-threshold services. The development work is carried out in the provinces and municipalities close to the person. Of course, mere transfers and individual decisions are not enough. We need long-term cooperation across parliamentary periods and winds to build a more pro-child and family-friendly Finland. For the first time, in order to support sustainable change in child and family policy, we also need a strategy for children, which has been set in motion. The strategy for children will be a positive vision for all children and families that transcends the term of government and unites different administrative branches. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u9	I'm going to give you answers now. They're going to be asked with a V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u10	Mr President! There is much talk of falling birth rates, of why people in Finland do not want to have children anymore. One reason is that if you think about such a small family that wants to have children, what they need, so that they dare to have that child, they need a certain kind of security for the future, they need a permanent job. Now there is a lot of talk about how we have a shortage of nurses, but do you know that there are thousands of nurses in the care sector who work on this kind of so-called charter, i.e. they do replacements, week replacements, month replacements — these substitutes can be dozens during the year. Consider whether the future is so secure in that situation that you dare to have a child. So this is the kind of job we should really be dealing with. The reason why there are so many of these temporary jobs in the care sector is that the municipalities do not have posts or posts, and they imagine that at some point they may be able to save them and therefore they will be treated as replacements, but that never happens, because, in fact, all these nurses are needed, which means that there is no justification for them in general. Another thing that is really important is the flexibility of parental leave. First of all, it must be up to the family to decide how to use parental leave, and then I also throw this ball into this, that it would be flexible in such a way that it would be targeted over several years in the early stages of the child, that those days could be held flexibly a little like the one held in Sweden. The third point is child benefit. So now the government is raising the child allowance for the fourth and fifth children by EUR 10. The costs will be EUR 6 million in 2020. A multiple child increase has already been taken into account in child supplements, which means that the number of children is rising. Now the Finns of Peru submitted that this same 6 million would be spent on the first child — the same cost, but that support would be directed at everyone. You just voted, the government parties, against it. As far as children's allowances are concerned, I think that they should definitely be included in the index, because we are lagging behind in this development every year. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u11	Mr President! The number of children born in Finland continues to decline. The number of children in families is decreasing and the proportion of children without children is increasing. However, studies show that the vast majority of those who were left without children would have wanted children. The uncertainty and lack of prospects for life and the future seem to be one of the main reasons why children are delayed. The employment situation is poor, employment relationships are short-term and shredded jobs and permanent jobs have not been achieved. It is felt that having a child is particularly bad for a young woman in the labour market. Many people also find it very difficult to combine work and family life. Working life is hectic and there are not necessarily safety nets, such as parents living nearby who ask for help. Economic scarcity is one of the reasons. Already 110,000 children in Finland live in a poor family today. The low income of young men has tripled in the 21st century. A great crowd is marginalized at the very time when it would be opportune to start a family. Even though one child is still being dealt with, the household of more children’s families is felt to be far too tight. According to the Family Barometer of the Family Federation, the unemployed, the least educated and the low-income have reduced their perception of a suitable number of children, thus reducing their perception of the number of children. There are many social reasons. Our family leave model is inflexible and does not take into account the different situations of families, but fortunately, the reform is about to start. The Government Programme has good records of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u12	Mr President! Just yesterday I was able to hold my sister’s newborn child and I thought in that moment that it is the greatest happiness of life that a person can face: the birth of his own child. If from such a point of view we start to look at what our obligations in this Chamber are, then surely it is that we guarantee that Finland will continue to be the best country in the future to be born as a child and can grow and develop. It actually means that we are looking through all the administrative sectors and we are thinking about how we can be more child-friendly in all our activities. Now that we are talking and considering the administrative reforms of various services, I am more concerned that we are too easy to build such silos of government. For example, what families with children need as such early support is often that early childhood education, welfare counselling, basic education, school health care, child welfare can work more seamlessly together and exchange information and support families in such situations. Well, as far as fertility is concerned, it is a very complex issue, and we certainly have no single factor to solve this. Sometimes it is completely independent of its own will, sometimes it depends on many social factors, but perhaps one of the most important things I would like to emphasise here is, on the other hand, looking at the results of research, seeking solutions from them, but, above all, that families have prospects for the future, so that they dare to plan for a family and build life on that basis. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u13	Mr President! First of all, with regard to this poverty of families with children, the best thing for that is that as many families as possible have jobs. It best helps with the poverty of families with children. But it is a fact that we have not been able to eliminate family poverty in this country. There are many examples of this, we know them through studies, but in general. In fact, for example, child supplements, which are really important for families with children with low incomes, are now at a level of 30% lower than in the 1990s. This indicates that the child allowance system requires development. I would like to continue on that point raised by Mr Kalli, which is what the Prime Minister and also the Minister in charge believe is that a change of direction should be introduced here and in the child allowance system, when the birth rate on the annual level has already decreased considerably — 5,000 children less from 2017 to 2019, according to forecasts — that we could use these savings, as if from child supplementation, as if they were not short-lived for the development of the child supplement system. This could mean, for example, that if 5,000 children are born less than those first children, the cost savings of around EUR 6 million will be lost in two years, and when child benefit is paid up to the age of 17, we know that this will result in a saving of almost EUR 100 million for one child. This sounds pretty big, but I think this principle would be important, and I support Mr Kalli's view that if there were a consensus here in the parliamentary parties on this issue, we would go ahead and take this matter forward. I ask the Prime Minister: what do you think?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u14	Mr President! The initiative to use the money saved under the child allowance scheme to develop it is a sensible idea. I believe that we in the government will think about how it will then be addressed to all Finns in a good way in the future. I would also like to say in this debate that this debate on children, on the birth rate, is not just a debate on livelihood. It is also a debate about the prospects for the future in different parts of Finland. We currently have a lot of such sub-regions where we think about the future of education for children right from that early childhood education, the resources in the municipal area, the saying of these things, these are difficult in many respects. The starting point must be that the government — this government, future governments — must provide a future perspective for families with children from the point of view of education, the care of their own parents, their future, in such a way that one can confidently look to the future when considering what kind of family decisions it is possible to take forward in that family. For this reason, it is important to take account of this perspective for the future of children and families with children into account in regional policy, which starts with declining populations and goes through sub-regions to growth centres and then into the metropolitan area of Helsinki. This is what this government intends to take care of in addition to the viewpoint on these matters of livelihood.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u15	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Kalli for an important and comprehensive debate initiative. A symptomatic child is always the same as a symptomatic family, and a symptomatic family is always the same as a symptomatic child. Therefore, it would be worth considering how much symptoms can arise if your family is not approved if you are not approved. No child or youth should experience that he or she is not accepted as such, and no family should experience that it is not the right kind. The need for child support can be concrete and visible, or it can be very fragile and private. Physical assistance needs a different kind of support than support for the development of self. Early support can contribute to the accumulation of problems and thus support the child’s development towards life and the school path. For example, the challenges of learning or acting a child are often reflected in the endurance of the whole family and in the atmosphere of the home. It would therefore be of paramount importance that both children and families always receive the support they need, regardless of whether the need for help is large or small. These often small and attitudeal factors have a big impact on family acceptance and appreciation. So why would it matter if the child has two homes or two mothers? The most important thing is that the child can feel safe for his family and that the family can feel whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u16	Mr President! The emphasis has been placed on how work is crucial to reducing poverty. That is the case, but at the same time I would also like to remind you that even work alone is not enough to tackle the poverty of families with children. The capital region, for example, has a lot of low-paid jobs whose wages are not sufficient after housing costs. There are many jobs to be done and yet there is not enough to make a living. For example, I was thinking about the postal workers who are currently fighting on strike: how would they and their families get along with those cut wages? [From the Group of the Fundamental Finns: Do something about it!] What is important is that when there is work, the reconciliation of family and work works. One big question here is the more equal distribution of family leave. Fathers continue to spend a considerable amount of family leave on us. It is unequal to fathers, it is unequal to mothers and it is unequal to children.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u17	Mr President, värderade talman! Det är är en viktig debatt. Vi har en nativitetskurva som bara går neråt och samtidigt mår alltför många unga mentalt dåligt. Regeringen gör stora satsningar på att förhindra barnfattigdom bland you give genom att höja på barnbidrag och andra stöd för utsata grupper, och därtill utvecklas våra rådgivningar till fungerande barn- och familijeservicecenter. Det är positiivt och ökommet.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u18	Mr President! It is good that there has now been a positive debate here on raising child supplements, but this should not be postponed for the coming decades, because a positive message is needed now. The number of babies is collapsing rapidly. This year, 4,000 fewer babies will be born than previously estimated, i.e. we are in the numbers previously believed to come only in 2045, which means that these measures are now in a hurry. Of course, we know that the amount of family aid alone is not the only remedy for the loss of birth rate, but it does matter. We see, for example, from a neighbouring country in Estonia that there were drastic increases in child allowances a few years ago. A family with three children will receive a child allowance of 500 euros a month, plus a baby allowance of 340 euros, which the Christian Democrats have also proposed — in Finland, the equivalent family’s child allowance is 334 euros — and the birth rate there began to rise. Well, the government is now proposing this EUR 10 increase for the fourth and fifth children of the family. This is good in itself, but it does not solve the problem of the fact that we have too few of the first children. Unfortunately, there are so few large families in Finland that this is only 0.4 per cent of all of our child supplementation. The Christian Democratic Group of the European Parliament therefore proposes that the child allowance for each child be increased by EUR 10 as early as next year. Of course, other reforms are still needed. This is where Mr Arhinmäki raised the issue of these family leave reforms, but families hope to be able to decide for themselves on family leave,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u20	Mr President! The dramatic reduction in the number of babies is something that we should all stop at. That is why this debate initiative is in order. At the same time, it has to be said that there is no easy solution to this, or there is no easy solution from a golden boy, that by changing one benefit the matter can be put right, but this also has a bigger impact: this is the signal of whether we want a child-friendly Finland. If we want to, it will require a family-friendly policy. Mr President! What is now reflected in these statistics is that quite a lot is involved in this exclusion, low education, unemployment. If these very factors are directed at one person, then the difference between the number of children desired and the number of children realized is the greatest. So it might be said that if we get people to work and participate in society, it will also likely improve man’s chances of reaching out for the desired number of children. That is why this prevention of exclusion is absolutely central. But the other is this intervention in child poverty. Children of parents who receive income support have 14 times the risk of being covered by child protection measures, and this must be addressed. But, Mr President, this now requires that all decisions taken in this society should be considered precisely through a family-friendly child policy. This requires that labour law also be seen: what is the impact of legislation on the safety of working life and the parents of young children? And now I ask the government and the Minister for Labour: when, for example, this family leave reform is carried out or labour law is seen, will you commit yourself to seeing what the effects of these decisions are?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u21	Mr President! I would also like to thank those who have taken the initiative for my part. I also have the opportunity to send greetings to Parliament from Pitäjänmäki Comprehensive School, where today a Question Time was organised by the Minister for Education for Children and Young People. In other words, it was also intended to give the youngest members of society the opportunity to examine the minister responsible for their affairs. As Mrs Lindtman has rightly pointed out here, we need both a policy aimed at families with children, including children, which promotes child and family positiveness, and equally the general work that this government is doing in order to reduce exclusion, for example, so that it also supports us in this work to support families and to ensure that families with low incomes have the opportunity to get higher than the desired number of children. Mr Räsänen said in his own speech that positive messages are needed now that we cannot afford to wait, and I can tell you from my own line of work that we have already taken steps to implement a number of measures. This restoration of the subjective right to early childhood education has already begun, and since August next year all children in the whole country will have an equal right to early childhood education again. In the same context, this change will also be made for group sizes, i.e. the whole country will return this 1 :7,the smaller ratio to the groups of over3 year olds. In addition, the Finnish model is currently in preparation, so we want to give all children and young people better opportunities to engage in school day activities free of charge. The second free level, which will be achieved in the context of the extension of compulsory education, is already on the move.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u22	Mr President! The Finns also welcome this discussion. Above all, it takes quite a big change to get an attitude in order to see a family of children in society as a kind of basic unit of society that is being pursued. The speeches that have been heard time and again here in Parliament confirm the view that the parties are jointly concerned with families with children, and that is a good thing, but apart from these fine speeches, however, the government would like more concrete action. However, when these families of four and five children you have highlighted are quite exceptional, could it be thought that, as the True Finns put it, we would consider investing in having the first child? However, it is often the threshold for families to have the very first child. So perhaps the increases in child supplements for these fourth and fifth children could be justified and directed to the first child. I have also said that there could be an incentive for more children to be given some form of government support for a loan, or that more children, perhaps a third child, could be given tax deductions to parents. By the way, in connection with these tax reductions, the Finns have asked for a return to the child allowance, and we will do so again in our alternative budget to be published tomorrow. That would be EUR 50 per guardian and EUR 100 for a single parent. It would be nice to hear from you, ladies and gentlemen, a position on whether this child allowance could be returned to income tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u23	Mr President! This is an important conversation. Thank you for the initiatives and important speeches that actually reflect on how to shed light on these sad birth rates and how we can turn Finland into a more child-friendly and family-friendly country, where children's dreams are worth and dare to go. I wanted to bring in a new angle of income, and that is that I think we should also send out a message that we do not all have to have children. Finland is a prosperous and educated country. We also have the right of parents and mothers to make the decision not to want to go out and have children, to carry out a child’s dream. It's okay, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u26	Representative Hoskonen and then Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u27	Mr President! The discussion initiative on building a more child-friendly and family-friendly Finland by the central parliamentary group is certainly the most timely possible. It can be said that today's families in Finland are not doing very well. It is true that many good things have been done, but when you look at the general picture of Finland, the outcome is certainly evident in the fact that little children, babies, are born in this country. The birth rate is far too low, and it is a measure that we politicians should all listen to in a genuine and sincere way. [Right : Jahallitus! ] Today, the family is the only real safe world for a small child, and this family’s sense of security has recently been shaken in a variety of ways. I will take the latest example as an example of whether a Christmas party at a school can be held in a church, for example, or whether a Christmas party can usually be in a church. Our Christian traditions have been shaken in a very shocking way, and I wonder that it comes from the Ombudsman. Respect for traditional family values and the construction of its entire safety net is certainly the most important thing for a small person. The world of that little child is the mother's lap and father's lap and family and home. It's not that big a world. If we upset it, we ourselves will have to endure the consequences in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u28	Mr President! The Board of Directors, or the members of the Board of Directors in part, and the members of the Economic Council visited 23.10. debate on the content of demographic policy and the current situation in demographic policy. There was an interesting introduction from Anna Rotkirch, an expert in the Family Federation, an executive director who went through the factors that currently affect birth rates. We have a situation where, in the 2010s, the birth rate, measured by fertility figures, was 1.85 and this year the forecast is 1.33. The average birth rate for society is about 1.6 on average. These figures are, of course, things that are difficult for people to think about, but the real question is that we are creating too few people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u31	Mr President! Indeed, the construction of a child-friendly and family-friendly Finland requires that different policy areas cooperate and aim to have such a cross-sectoral, comprehensive vision of what we should do to strengthen child-friendly and family-friendly thinking in Finland. In that sense, I listened with great interest to the Prime Minister's idea of this working group. I hope, however, that this working group does not so much start with what should be done to strengthen the birth rate in itself — it must be people’s own choice — but rather with how to strengthen the well-being of families, especially children and young people. In this regard, I would have been interested to hear from the Prime Minister what could be done in the Prime Minister's Office on this issue, because we know that today this child and family policy is highly sectoral. Positive decisions can be made in one ministry sector and then in the other one pulls in the other direction, and then the situation is that different actors do not, as it were, negotiate or discuss with each other. For example, this sort of 24/7 society is not particularly child-friendly, as we all know. In other words, if the ministers present want to answer this question, how will you look at it? Well, there are experts on social and health reform here, for example. When this social and regional reform is carried out in Finland, the services of children and young people will be run over by different governments. How does this social reform ensure that we have joint management, which, as it were, ensures that these services for children and young people are coordinated, i.e. that they really make the service chains run smoothly and that they are responsible for ensuring that people do not fall between the services? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u32	I will try to give the ministers the floor at some point, but first of all this debate between the representatives will take place.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u33	Mr President! This has been a great debate, and I thank the people who took the initiative. Representative Hoskonen explained what it was like to be a grandfather in this Finnish society. I can share that happiness, but in this context I would like to say that when two of my own children have families of their own and another family has one child and another family has three children, I really find no explaining social reasons behind this distinction, but those differences are individual. But at a macro level, how do we look at these things here in Parliament, of course, this is all the sum of the factors that we have raised here in the debate. It is influenced by economic reasons, social policy issues — such as family policy — early childhood education, values, cultural factors, and certainly in recent years there have been cultural factors that have contributed to reducing this number of children in Finland. But I would like to point out here that on 3 March this year a number of Finns must have been startled when Helsingin Sanomat published an article by the frequently quoted economist Sixten Korkman and Professor Kaila entitled “Pity causes toxic stress to children. “ That concept of toxic stress is very powerful. So it is not that poverty brings uncertainty to the child’s life, but that it is a matter of highly scientific research-based issues where brain function and development are disrupted, and according to their estimates this involved 120,000 children, or just over 10 per cent of all Finnish children. That is why I think it is right that, now that we are cautiously turning this direction of family policy, we should focus on:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u34	Mr President! The birth crisis is often approached by means of social or labour market policies. However, if the birth rate were largely dependent on material conditions, the birth rate would be high in countries such as Finland and low in poor countries rather than vice versa. Of course, social policy matters too. It is interesting that the government, for example, wants to raise child benefit for the fourth and more children. Perhaps the biggest problem, however, is not that large families are not even bigger, but that too many do not have the first child. In the case of the first child, the threshold is the highest and should be lowered by all means. A so-called reverse child allowance could also be considered, i.e. that, alongside traditional income transfers, parents' income tax would fall towards zero as the number of children grew. This would be a message and a hand extension for working parents in particular. The predictability of working life — that there is work and that people get along with their wages — is crucial. The government should consider whether the current policy will contribute to these objectives or to the fact that housing and mobility costs, for example, will not continue to increase. We should also stop inciting climate hysteria and maintaining an atmosphere of voluntary infertility as some sort of act of climate change and of having children in some way immoral. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u35	Mr President! This is a very important issue, and I think that this debate should be conducted in the very context that when a couple wants to have children, society or economic status should not become a slow-track and a barrier. As far as I am concerned, I would not go like Mr Tavio to say that a family with children must be the basic unit to which everyone is seeking, but when that fire occurs in that child love, society must not be a retard or a barrier. And when scientists have also been heard by the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party on this matter, the fact is that this fall in birth rates is, in fact, mainly explained by the plight of young people at risk of exclusion, who are less educated. In this respect, that belief in the future must be restored to the fact that even if you are not working right now or if you are still studying in the final stages of life, you will get a job in life. For this reason, I would like to ask the Minister for Employment in particular: are you now doing anything concrete that the threshold for hiring in this society should be reduced so that, regardless of the fact that you feel that you have little knowledge and skills at the moment, there is enough faith that you can get a job? As yet, it is said in the 70s to 80s, when we had much more primary school work available, this faith was. Secondly, of course, training is needed, and it is precisely to ensure that everyone stays on track. The second phase of the seam is, of course, — and I think many of us personally feel it — that, quite understandably, more and more families are being wary of a situation in which the working life of one of the spouses is jeopardised or when children come, the family goes completely revolutionary. In this respect, it is important for society to have access to services from outside. For a vast number of families with children, the household allowance has been a way of doing this. Last time I was here in Question Time, Mr Kulmuni, a party colleague of Mr Kalli's, claimed that the government would only cut the household allowance from those high-income people who spent it on pins. But that compensation will be cut by 10 percentage points per person, 100 million less household allowance per year
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u36	A total of about 80 Members have asked for the floor. Not everyone's going to get it, but Secretary Harakka is going to get it now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u37	Mr President! In answer to Mr Mykkänen's question: yes, action has been agreed in the budget debate 25 and more will continue to come. It is easy to agree with a number of representatives that we need a family leave reform that encourages the sharing of care responsibilities. In response to Mr Lindtman's question: On Monday, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy will set up a working group to prepare the EU's Employment Balance Directive and, among other things, any changes to the Employment Contracts Act required by the reform of family leave. This directive does not in itself bring anything new to Finnish paternity and parental leave, but in some EU countries they are even revolutionary reforms. In addition, the directive raises an issue which has perhaps been discussed too little today and which relates to the ageing of the population, namely the fact that more and more people are caring for their families, whether in full-time or in addition to work. This directive now brings five days of family-care leave into Finnish legislation every year. This relates to the other tasks of the working group that have been designated in the Government Programme. The purpose of this working group is also to take a position on the way in which working life can be made more flexible, particularly in view of the situation of family carers, and also to prevent pregnancy discrimination, which is, of course, one of the most serious forms of discrimination at work. This is the kind of task force that will be set up next Monday. We must also remember, of course, that we are also working very hard to combat discrimination against people who live alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u38	Mr President! It is clear that there are no children in Finland for money, but the signal is that there is also financial support for children in our country. Poverty in a family with children is a fact. Many couples wonder responsibly if they dare to increase the size of the family, because raising a family and having children is also an essential part of the increase in spending. We in the centre are pleased that there is going to be an increase in the budget for child allowances for single-parent and multi-child families. These are modest but still steps in the right direction. Child benefits aren't nothing. Our southern neighbour Estonia introduced significantly increased child benefits and has had a positive impact on the development of the number of children. When, on average, one child per woman of childbearing age was born in Estonia earlier, families with three children are not at all rare in Estonia today. During a low birth rate, consider all possible ways to raise the birth rate. This budget will not give way, but I personally hope that an assessment will be carried out of how the increased child allowance paid for the first child might improve the birth rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u39	Mr President! Finland should strive for the most child-friendly society in the world. This could certainly be a common goal for the whole of Parliament. The majority of Finnish children and families are doing well, but still some 120,000 children live in poor families in Finland. Persistent economic uncertainty is one of the main reasons why some young people do not have the courage to start a family or to plan their own future at all. The reasons for infertility or child retention are often related to short-term or shredding work and uncertain financial prospects. Work alone is not enough; work must also get along. This is also accompanied by an increase in reluctant part-time work in this decade. In addition to addressing job insecurity, promoting affordable housing is also essential for family and child-friendliness. The price of living in growth centers in particular has gone out of control. Living in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area takes more than half of the income left in hand from many wage and salary earners. A good housing policy, which would build sufficiently affordable ARAs in terms of demand, would also be a good family policy. The present government wants to put a stop to the trend of poverty in families with children, which is intensifying and building up problems. We know that even young children are under stress about the livelihood of their families. Addressing family poverty and overgenerational poverty are key to society’s child-friendliness, justice and equality. Single parenthood, for example, increases the risk of poverty. The Government's proposals to increase Kela's minimum benefits this autumn are steps in the right direction. In many ways and in every way possible, we must address the many root causes of child poverty.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u40	Mr President! I very much welcome this debate, which has taken place today in a very constructive spirit. Many thanks have come here, and there are some criticisms that the government is raising child benefit for families with multiple children and single-parent families. This government has wanted to target support to those families which, according to the studies, are at risk of poverty or poverty, specifically affecting families with multiple children and single-parent families. Poverty in families with children is a very serious issue, and today the Centre has taken its own initiative to raise child supplements. I'm going to take a good look at this performance, and I'm not going to knock it out right now. I think it is a good thing that we are having this debate here in Parliament, but we should also do it more widely in society as a whole to increase child-friendlyness. One big joint effort that we have, by the government and by the whole Parliament, is the reform of family leave. It is vital that the child's interests and the well-being of families are at the forefront of the reform of family leave, not forgetting the freedom of choice of families that has emerged in this Chamber. In my view, it is now essential to introduce a reform that is more conducive to reconciling family and working life and also equal parenthood. Not everyone can fit in the same mold, and therefore family leave must take into account the different needs and life situations of children and families. President! Finally, I would like to respond to Mr Lindtman's concern that we have committed ourselves to child impact assessments in all actions and legislative reforms concerning children.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u41	Mr President! We are discussing building a more child-friendly and family-friendly Finland. Many speakers have raised the issue of birth rates and low incomes. A prerequisite for a higher birth rate is work that pays a living wage and a safe growth environment for children. At the same time, the State-owned Post is already cutting wages by about 30% from low-paid employees. Some of them also work part-time. How can a left-wing government talk about children and child-friendliness and, at the same time, allow the small salaries of a state company to be cut? When building a child-friendly Finland, it is not up to the government parties to blame young fathers and mothers for climate matters. You representatives of the climate parties, even in the government, think about this. Unfortunately, Finland is in the process of marketing voluntary infertility in the name of climate action. A representative also raised the prices of housing and housing. It is true that housing shortages are on the table in Finland and rent prices are high, but can you think about something that connects them, which also causes housing shortages in, for example, the capital region, which maintains high rent prices.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u42	I will give the floor to Mr Risiko and then to Minister Kiuru, and then to Mrs Kalle, who is the author of the initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u43	Mr President! Thank you for this debate, a good theme. Perhaps these are the kind of conversations we should have. Mr President! A family-friendly and child-friendly society is what we do together. Practiced family policy, unequal distribution of family responsibilities, tone of discussion, problems with income do not encourage the acquisition of a child. Society must support the fact that everyone can carry out their own child wish. We must remember that there are also many other ways of familying, and different family models are all valuable. In my view, the principles of sustainable demographic development must be defined in Finland, taking into account the demographic structure, the birth rate, ageing and immigration, in view of their ecological sustainability. Birth rates and ecologically sustainable development are not opposites, but can be promoted in balance. We have heard a great many ways of doing what we could to make a family-friendly and child-friendly society stronger in Finland. Here are examples of increasing income, services, support for parenthood, reconciliation of work and family. These are all very important, but I think it is important to take concrete action. When I think about it and I said here that we should set out the principles, I suggest that we do it parliamentaryly. The Prime Minister made a good presentation and said that a ministerial group would be set up. I don't think that's enough. It is also necessary for the whole of Parliament to draw up targets and action programmes for a child-friendly and family-friendly society. I therefore propose that the whole Parliament be involved in this, and then that we do concrete things, such as increasing the home service for families with children.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u44	Mr President! I will start with this Risiko proposal, which is that this whole Chamber should be there to strengthen the family-friendly attitude that society needs. Together, we will be making specific family policy guidelines in this parliamentary work, and we call it the preparation of a strategy for children, which, over the years of government, expressly guarantees that in this society the issue of children and families will not be forgotten. In addition to this, it is clear that the government must also be vigilant, we must consider concrete measures for every budget call, and in this respect it is important that the government also initiates the promotion of family friendliness by means of joint ministerial action, so that this is not just the responsibility of the Minister for the Family. I am very pleased with the opening that the Prime Minister has made, because it tells us that we all want to engage across the administrative boundaries. There has been a lot of talk about these interfaces here too, and because we ensure that the construction of a child-friendly and family-friendly Finland is not just a matter for one minister or one party, it is all done together. Risikko said about ecologically sustainable development, and I agree that all these things are very intertwined. Attitudes and atmosphere and images determine. When you listen to this debate, I am very pleased that Parliament uses a very constructive way of speaking in the way it will be done in the future. Building on this level is the most important thing we can do together. It's all our responsibility. That's why I don't think it's a good idea to point your finger at me or blame one or the other. I say this now when, for example, Mr Mäenpää raised the issue of climate parties and the question of guilt and said that there would be parties here that specifically advocate not having children. I say this now to Parliament, as I said in Question Time: [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u45	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to thank you for the very good and constructive debate we have had here today around this important theme. There has been a lot of talk here about birth rates, but perhaps the most important two issues that we are now dealing with together are these: First of all, each person’s own personal desire for children and the actual number of children will be brought closer together, i.e. human dreams will be realized. And then the second question, the second big challenge, is how we genuinely build this society, Finland, a good, safe, the best place for children and families in the world to live. This latter is essentially linked to the four points I made in my own presentation: livelihood, endurance, reconciliation between work and family, and a general atmosphere of attitude. Two further clarifications should be made in this regard. First of all, it is good to understand that family friendliness does not only mean a situation in which an employee has small children, for example, but can also mean care responsibilities or a desire to care and take responsibility for, for example, his own parents or other loved ones. Another important point is that increasing flexibility in working life or building a family-friendly, child-friendly society in general will therefore serve everyone, including the childless or, for example, two adults,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u46	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u47	Mr President! This is a government proposal to the Parliament for a law amending the Act on the taxation of business income and for certain related laws. In other words, the proposal is based on the tax avoidance directive adopted in 2016. Its last implementation is this tax on the increase in the value of companies' assets in exit situations and the regulation of so-called hybrid situations in the presentation last week. The aim of the provisions of the directive on exit taxation is to safeguard the tax powers of the Member States in the event of a transfer of tax residence or assets from the tax jurisdiction of a Member State without the actual actual transfer of taxation. The ownership of the assets is always held by the same taxable person, but the assets are transferred under the tax jurisdiction of another State. Exit taxation is not a separate tax but is a matter of income tax. The income of the taxable person shall be added to the value of the assets subject to exit tax minus the non-depreciated acquisition costs. Taxation would be appropriate in situations such as: transfer of assets or business from a permanent establishment in Finland of a foreign entity; transfer of funds from a resident entity to a permanent establishment in another State where Finland no longer has tax rights to those assets as a result of the transfer; or transfer of the tax residence of a generally taxable entity to another State under Finnish law or under a double taxation convention. Taxable income would be the exit value determined by law. It is proposed to amend the current rules on exit taxation relating to cross-border acquisitions to allow the taxpayer to defer payment. The laws are intended to enter into force on 1 January 2020 and the laws would apply for the first time in taxation for 2020.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u48	Mr President! We're on a really big deal here. Tax havens steal from children who depend on the welfare state, from the sick, from the elderly and from all of us who use public services and want to live in a safe state of law, here in Finland. Studies show that the Finnish state loses at least hundreds of millions of euros each year due to tax avoidance. Companies and people using tax havens also steal from honest businesses, and in particular from all the smallest companies that are not able to hire tax planning experts to minimise taxation. Thus, tax havens distort the market and are one of the main reasons for the development of a market economy as a financial capitalist against democracy. The market should be the reins of a democratic society, but now they are the host of the secrets of tax havens. Mr President! Some years ago, I was preparing a programme of measures against tax havens for the left. One of our proposals was the exit tax, which is now finally on one side of the table. That's when right-wing columnists went crazy. According to them, the exit tax was an unrealizable April Fool who would make people and businesses hostage to the Finnish state. In practice, however, it is a matter of paying taxes in the country where the proceeds were made. If taxes are not paid immediately, they must be paid at the latest when leaving the country. Mr President! In its report in 2017, the Ministry of Finance’s working group stated: ‘In line with the understanding of the working group on exit taxation,it is more appropriate to regulate which is a relevant and important part of the current tax Finland has previously come to battle against tax havens in the aftermath of the war. At its worst, it has even been slowed down to repair the system. Officially, we have spoken against tax havens, but, in reality, we have only done so at home when the EU has forced us to do so. In addition, Finland has previously joined forces with the Netherlands, one of the worst tax havens in the EU. Their irresponsible policies have taken away billions of tax revenues from other Member States. Finland, too, has focused on demanding spending cuts from Member States rather than ensuring that each Member State receives tax revenue. It is therefore important now that this government combats aggressive tax evasion, tax evasion and harmful tax competition both nationally and within the European Union. Mr President! The VAT, i.e. the exit tax, ensures that the transfer of assets from one country to another is taxed. Without the exit tax it has been possible to avoid taxation in the country where the increase in value has occurred. In Finland, the rise in the value of enterprises has been subject to limited taxation. The proposal corrects a significant part of the problems of the current value-raising regulation of Finnish companies. It should be noted, however, that the first draft of the bill was better than the one before it because it also concerned the limited companies. However, the main problem with the proposal under discussion may still concern situations where so-called goodwill is transferred from Finland as part of the corporate wealth. The excluded goodwill is intangible assets and can be the most important asset for growth companies, for example. In this respect, the draft law not only leads to an uncertain legal situation but also to a significant risk of tax base leakage. Since the preparation has overtaken part of the company and the risk of tax base leakage or the legally uncertain situation is not resolved before the end of the year, when the law has to be put into effect, a new legislative proposal to remove the risks must be initiated immediately. Mr President! It is excellent that the exit tax is finally being imposed on companies. The VAT on individuals included in the Government Programme must also be prepared as a matter of urgency. The value-raising tax on individuals is in place in most Western countries, and the government has to drive extensively in this respect, too, for the interests of all Finns, not for the very few who are tax-free to take the wealth that has been made here out of the country. This is particularly important when the government has not taken action in its programme to dismantle insurance cover or other questionable arrangements for the transfer of taxation. Only by correcting the broken tax system and ensuring fair and sustainable taxation will we be able to secure the welfare services that are important to us all in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u49	Mr President! The success of this country rests largely on a strong welfare state — providing high-quality, free-of-charge education, health care and other everyday security for everyone. This security and this publicly funded system also depends on the success of many domestic companies. There is no need to look further than Nokia when it is discovered that the welfare state and the social peace and stability it brings are also the best protection for businesses. A welfare state cannot exist without a strong and stable, predictable tax base, and therefore this millennium has become particularly important to pay attention to the holes that are gradually being gnawed into this tax base. It is estimated that tax evasion and tax evasion alone have lost more than EUR 1 billion in tax revenue over the past ten years. In addition to this, there is a great deal of aggressive tax planning in the grey area, to which Mr Saramok referred in his speech. Thus, the welfare state is likely to lose hundreds of millions each year because of various tax arrangements that do not belong in the spirit of the welfare state or our tax system. This intervention requires, above all, strong international cooperation, which the EU has taken in the lead and which is also part of the government's proposal. And this is indeed the right course of action, because an increasing number of these arrangements are being made internationally, and it is precisely the unity of the information exchange systems between countries and other international cooperation that are at the heart of the consolidation of the tax base. That is why it is important that Finland, as a Nordic welfare state, first of all participates in this EU cooperation, demands even more ambition from it and is therefore also in the process of pushing the whole world into greater responsibility for taxation. This does not only strengthen the conditions for the future of existing welfare states, but also fosters the development of developing countries, because we know that without a stable and reliable tax base, a high-quality and functioning public sector can not be created that is responsible for the well-being and competence of citizens. It is therefore important that these issues are dealt with as a large-scale entity, to which Finland is truly ambitious. It is therefore important that, as part of this package, we quickly start to implement national measures and continue to stick to one of the most important issues, namely transparency, where Finland really is one of the pioneers. A recent tax day was celebrated here, and this is a very good practice, because in places where information is to be hidden or funds to hide, or these international organisations to hide, the possibility of aggressive tax avoidance and even serious crime opens up. This has been done, for example, in the case of Panamanian papers, when it was discovered that these opportunities for tax evasion do not only allow tax avoidance but also serious crime, money laundering and other serious problems. Responsibility and honesty must always be worthwhile, and transparency and transparency of the system are in everyone's interests. It is good to remember, as Mr Saramo also stressed, that such large-scale tax planning and optimisation requires the kind of know-how that quite a few smaller companies or, in particular, ordinary employees have. Therefore, care for this fairness and a tight tax base is primarily in the interests of their small, honest, responsible companies and of every ordinary employee. The more large companies and international investors are able to optimize and avoid their own taxation, the heavier the tax burden on ordinary Finnish companies — ordinary small, honest Finns — is not right. It is not right for the welfare state to be maintained, it is not right for children growing up in this country, and it is not right for the ordinary employees and taxpayers. It is therefore necessary to ensure that everyone contributes to the funding of the welfare state. As has been said, every company operating in this country, every investor operating in this country will benefit from the fact that this country is a peaceful, stable, prosperous, highly skilled country, and it is therefore right that everyone operating in this country also bears their share of the tax due, because without it there is no welfare state, there is no social peace and there is no service to maintain all this. In future, it is indeed worth pointing out that this is only the beginning and that these reforms are moving towards a stronger tax base and also closer taxation for individuals and personal companies. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u50	Mr President! As we have heard, this is an important proposal. This will contribute to the implementation of the tax avoidance directive. By the beginning of next year we must have these regulations, and it is good that we are moving forward on these important issues at the latest. In other words, this exit tax is precisely about the fact that the transfer of the company's assets from one country to another becomes taxable. It is in the interests of all of us and, of course, the good general principles of strengthening the tax base and combating aggressive tax planning are most important. We all know the proportions that move both at home and around the world when taxes are avoided in some way and, in the worst case, of course circumvented, but there is a need to eradicate such aggressive tax planning in general. It is good that Finland has now taken such an active line, let us say. It is important that the Government Programme pays serious attention to these issues. This is certainly not the only one in itself, but there are now a lot of entries and there will certainly also be follow-up on the whole. But when reference was made here to these structures of our welfare society and to the fact that we really need money for the care of the elderly, for the education of children, for early education, for the livelihood of poor people, for all of this, it is quite right that we should work fully to ensure that society receives the tax money which, in the name of all justice, must receive it. In this proposal, it is also a question of prevention, it has not been possible to estimate the actual tax revenue, but I am sure that we will be able to assess them in a positive way in any case. These two points have already been mentioned here about the content of this proposal, including the fact that this does not apply to partnerships and, at this stage, also to the transfer of goodwill, and these are certainly issues on which we may have heard something in the tax section today, and we will continue to deal there. We will look through these details more closely. President! I too would like to remind you in this speech that there is a record in the government programme that, in addition to this, the possibility of an increase in value tax is also being investigated for individuals. So this is recorded in the Government Programme, and I see the Minister nodding in that box, so I am sure that this clarification is also ongoing in the Ministry, which is important in itself. Perhaps I can say that for us demars, this fight against aggressive tax planning has been a very important issue for years. I remember how, in time, I was pleased that in the time of Jutta Urplainen, too, in the European Union
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u51	Mr President! This government bill of tax avoidance is all right. I studied our government programme and looked at the list of our tax policy policies, how the grey economy will be eradicated. There are twenty different points. This is one of those points, and that is why I was wondering that we are losing a huge amount of money in the form of tax revenue through the informal economy, it is estimated that even in billions it will go — so much money will be lost. This is the kind of gray economy that has a lot to do on the construction sites, which has been tried to root out. For example, there is a lot of talk in the metal industry that people have been found there who pay taxes and evade taxes. There is underpaid employment in the restaurant and transport sectors. In the transport sector, cabotage has brought its own tax avoidance opportunities, how it operates. So, these jobs, of course, require us to do some official work. But what I myself was thinking of taking the opportunity to talk about taxes: I thought I would ask the Minister when it was recorded that this tax number would be extended. At what stage will the operation for extending the use of this tax number begin to be organised?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u52	Mr President! This EU Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive is, in itself, a continuation of the work done by the OECD, for example, in connection with this BEPS project, and it is extremely important that international efforts are made to prevent tax evasion and tax avoidance, and without international cooperation, including good exchange of information, there is little chance of progress in these projects. Of course, it is still quite difficult to assess how this directive on the prevention of tax evasion will work at European level, because many countries are in the same situation as in Finland that the directive is being put into practice at the very last minute. But perhaps some of the thoughts that arose from this quick reading. However, as I understand it, these intra-group transfers are not really being addressed except in situations where, as a result of this transfer, Finland no longer has the right to tax in this new country of establishment. We have also had a lot of discussion about this right to deduct interest on loans within the group, and also on these internal invoices, which, I believe, are currently in such tax planning — and even tax avoidance — the most effective means of transferring taxable income within the group either to a country with very low taxation or perhaps even to these so-called tax haven countries. I would have liked to ask the Minister whether this is actually capable of dealing with these internal arrangements within the Groups or whether this is only in situations where the Finnish tax law will not extend to these funds. And, indeed, we must hope that, at international level, we will now be able to make a movement of people, because this is, if you think of it within the EU, a huge tax competition between the EU countries, but also in view of the EU as an area where, in many countries, the aim is to maintain the welfare state, which means that we are constantly losing the tax revenue that belongs to the Member States concerned.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u53	Mr President! The grey economy and tax evasion reduce tax revenues for society and create unfair competition between companies. Fighting the shadow economy and tax evasion with all possible means is close to my heart. You have to pay the taxes. I don't like to watch the money. Last week I asked the Minister a question, and you took a positive attitude to it, you responded positively. There are areas for development in the CIS system. By opening it up, even more could be taken up by the black economy, and when the government programme also has EUR 20 million to combat the black economy, let me repeat: this updating and extension of the CIS system is on your agenda, is it not? I understand that between EUR 3 and 4 million will be enough to carry out the completed project, and I understand that the money could be taken out of the 20 million that the government programme has earmarked for the fight against the shadow economy. The second question concerns — when we are talking about taxes — the income from corporation tax. When you look at the budget book, it has been constantly growing, and I think that 2013 was the last one to count — it has been counted several times. When the tax has been calculated, the surprise is that the tax revenue has increased. How does the Minister see whether there could be some future steps forward and whether it could have incentive factors for companies to want to stay in Finland, to employ and grow in order to achieve that 75% in employment?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u54	Mr President! I think that this government proposal before us is excellent and meets the requirements of the directive at this stage. I felt it was pointless to include this goodwill, a very difficult matter to define, as well as partnerships. I welcome this government proposal. I asked for the floor because there have been a couple of speeches about the introduction of such a natural person's exit tax. After all, there is a statement in Appendix 5 to the Government Programme that it is possible to introduce a tax model that prevents the avoidance of taxes on sales, gifts and inheritances of non-residents in Finland. From a political point of view, I think it is right to ask whether it is appropriate that Finland should have an absolute right to impose taxes on the property of a person after he has moved out of Finland. I myself believe more in philosophy, which assumes that Finland must be a country with regard to taxation and otherwise from which people do not want to move away. In my opinion, the tax on increases in value is inevitably the tone of punishment for moving out of Finland, and this does not fit our social model, which is based on the individual's freedom to implement himself. In addition to the political aspect, there are many practical problems with the value-added tax. In practice, the tax would mean that if a person moved out of Finland, he would be taxed on the basis of, for example, an increase in the value of the shares bought in Finland during his residence, even though the person has not sold the shares. The determination of the euro amount of such an increase in value is not necessarily simple for all assets. It is easy to do so mainly in the case of stock exchanges, because they have a clear market price. According to the case law of the EU Court of Justice, an increase in value tax must not be levied until the increase has been realised by the sale of the assets. The time between moving out of Finland and the realisation of value gain, i.e. the sale of property, can be decades, for example. During the period between removal and sale, the value of the property may have been calculated and, according to the EU Court of Justice, this depreciation should be taken into account when calculating the final amount of the tax. In the tax treaties normally concluded in Finland, sales profits may only be taxed in the country of residence of the person. Thus, when a person moves out of Finland, the Finnish right to tax his or her profits on his or her property will be broken. It is questionable whether other countries would allow Finland, for example, to tax an increase in value realised in connection with the sale of property decades after the removal. New State of residence
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u55	Mr President! There is a lot of talk in this Chamber about taxes, especially when taxes are made without interest, in order to be able to take care of our welfare state, education, services, social security. I'm sure none of us would like to raise taxes. Too often, in these discussions, it is not easy for us, in fact, to increase any taxes at all, rather than to reduce taxation on small and medium-income earners, for example, and to provide better social services if everyone were to pay taxes correctly and fairly as they should be. The grey economy is a cancer that eats Finnish society — the criminally unpaid tax. But a lot of taxes are also paid legally or in a grey area where taxes are specifically avoided legally, various tax lawyers, experts, big money to avoid paying taxes. A low-income or middle-income working person or pensioner pays taxes on every euro and cent, quite rightly, as it should be. That is why it seems crazy that in many situations those who have the most pay the least in proportion, precisely because they can afford and have access to various experts who are looking for loopholes in taxation. This intervention should and certainly be the objective of almost the whole of this Chamber. In these matters we are often a little bit after skiers in the sense that when one loophole is blocked, the next one is already invented. Most things have to be decided at national level. We are close to knowing what matters need to be decided, but then there are things, problems that cross the border, and cross-border solutions are needed. This kind of tax competition towards the base, trickling at different tax levels in different countries, shifting incomes, showing them in countries where taxes are levied significantly less or not at all, is being used to exploit tax havens — it requires joint action. We have been talking about this exit tax, which is now being introduced through the directive, for years. The Left has brought it up, and I remember how it was laughed at in neoliberal circles and said that we wanted to prevent companies from leaving Finland. That's not the point. The question is that taxes should be paid fairly where the result is made. This is what we are talking about for many companies that take out intra-group loans and do not show their results in Finland, such as health care,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u56	Mr President! Representative Essayah raised the issue of intra-group transfers, and indeed it contains one of the worst elements of aggressive tax planning and tax evasion. However, the VAT applies only to transfers of assets within a legal entity and therefore intra-group transfers, for example between subsidiaries, are already subject to taxation and should be subject to arm's length pricing. Unfortunately, this is not the case, and I am therefore very pleased that the government programme has committed itself at both national and EU level to tackling tax leakages. It is not really a matter of this increase in value tax, but I trust the Minister that intra-group tax evasion loopholes will also be blocked. Mr Kiviranta's philosophical speech could be justified if taxes were paid annually without different means of tax planning, such as insurance cover. It is unreasonable to think that, by moving from one country to another, part of the group could not fully pay taxes. A common pensioner and an ordinary worker do pay their taxes — why could heirs and other persons with their ownership avoid taxation only by moving from one country to another? Yes, they must pay their share of our society. As I pointed out in my speech, these exit taxes on individuals are widely used in the West. Yes, I think there is a little unpatriotic tax system in Finland when we have this kind of tax evasion made possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u57	Within the time allotted, I will give the floor, Mr Viitanen and Mr Essayah, and then to the Minister if he wishes to speak at the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u58	Mr President! These are, of course, the issues that have just emerged in this Chamber. In other words, there are many ways in which taxes can be designed and organised, practices that either minimise tax rates or avoid tax payments altogether in certain cases. While it is a good thing that during the last period, for example, there were still gaps in insurance cover, such as situations where tax payments can be avoided if you move abroad and so on. So there's a lot of room for cleaning here. I think, President, that it was good that we spent the tax week last week as a result of Monday's tax day, that there was a great deal of discussion in the media about these problems. I even think that there is a need for a wide-ranging debate in civil society and in the media, for example, on tax arrangements of this kind and on how much is actually left over from them, without taxing income, which is then not reflected in, for example, tax-paying statistics, because there is no tax at all. President! This may have given me such a small opportunity to ask a few questions to the Minister: the big debate on Tax Day was also about the publicity of tax information. I did not think it was a good thing that the Tax Administration had taken that interpretation, arguing that these data protection provisions would allow more than 100,000 revenues to be excluded from the lists to be given to the media. I followed the matter very closely and found that now the Chancellor of Justice did not consider this matter as such. But here is the risk that, if this is just beginning to be resolved through legal practices, it will be prolonged, and now, for example, when this information became more common in the public domain, that you can now ask that the taxable income of over 100,000 should not be on the public list, then in two days the number of these demands for removal from the list rose from 100 to 231, which will make it very predictable that, next year, in a similar situation, a corresponding interpretation, thousands will already be spoken of. We can then rightly talk about the situation that our tax information is no longer public and transparent, as is the case with old practice. This is not the subject of today's debate, but I am raising this question so that the Minister may then be able to comment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u59	Mr President! Mr Saramo here made a run for it, and indeed he also raised these internal pricing problems and tax planning within the group. I recall that when I read the book Treasure Islands — not the adventure book of my childhood but this book on tax avoidance — there were business examples: this ordinary ballpoint pen was internally priced for 3000 euros. You can imagine what kind of transfers of assets can, as it were, be made in a ‘legal’ way within a company when there is a desire to avoid tax and make them as small as Therefore, this intervention in the intra-group billing prices, their transparency, would also be extremely important, and then this right to deduct interest, which Finland has already tried to restrict to some extent, but not in all respects. These are perhaps one of the greatest ways in which this tax avoidance can be done. The cleaning up of state aid rules at EU level is also something that affects its taxable income. I think it is important with me when we look at justice within the EU, for example, and what may affect, for example, the level of business taxation. In this respect, certain EU Member States are quite clearly circumventing these provisions. For some, these state aid provisions seem to be more stringent than for others. Last but not least, I would like to point out that the alternative budget of the Christian Democrats would like the income side of the state to increase the amount of 50 million of this aid for the recreational shipping of commercial vessels, because it is then the tax evasion of the ordinary citizen. When you do that liquor rally across the Baltic Sea, it is a tax evasion of its own. In that sense, although these others are of course important and important in terms of size, we understand that everyone there in their daily lives may also make the decisions that seek a certain form of tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u60	Mr President! A few quick. — First of all, for Mrs Essayah: Good luck and success in withdrawing crew support. It is tied to TES, and I bet that every port in Finland would stop after that. Firstly, there are just a few comments to this general debate: firstly, we must remember that we already have national means of enforcing tax evasion in legal practice at the moment — we were not exactly in the empty seas. And then there is the fact that there has been quite a fluent talk about the grey economy and tax evasion. This is, in fact, a matter of tax planning, because it is not the taxation of profits that we are talking about here, but the taxation of value, and this is a matter of tax planning. Then you might as well remember that, compared to the international level, our tax deficit is very small. In this debate, a little bit has become the impression that we have been all over the world, but we have not been all over the world, we have been doing this quite well, but there is something to be improved, and that is why we are committed to these international measures and to what is happening here. So this is just a reminder. It is estimated that there are a few of these cases per year, i.e. there is no mention of any mass taxation that is going to take place here. Then to the questions I had. There was a question here about the tax numbers for the shipyards. The report will be in the course of next year. So it's coming. Then, in the case of groups, interest rates will become tighter at the beginning of next year, which means that it will become tighter, and then, of course, we will see what is happening here, and we will assess whether these are sufficient. And, in fact, with regard to group taxation, I have a working group on the move. So, yes, I'm evaluating that whole thing. Well, with regard to the CSF: it is in the Government Programme, but it does not in itself apply to the VM, because we already have the tax information there. What Mr Kiuru said in relation to these fiscal measures: we are going to have double depreciation, which is precisely what we are now looking for in terms of the dynamism of taxation. Then, what came here more than once, this taxation of the increase in the value of persons: It will be clarified in 2020, which is next year. It would then be possible to bring in 2021. Then let's get the taxes out. These cases, as they have been, are purely government decisions. I've never seen that decision of the Attorney General, and I've never been able to get to grips with it. Last weekend I was in Brussels at the Euro-Ecofin meeting.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u61	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u62	Mr President! In fact, a surprising number of questions have been asked about the amendment of the Act on the Incomes Information System, Article 15 of the Tax Procedure Act and Article 64 of the Income Tax Act. In other words, the problems encountered in the introduction of the Incomes Register at the beginning of this year have contributed to the entry in the Government Programme that the problems encountered in the introduction of the Incomes Register will be investigated and corrected in order to facilitate the activities of small entrepreneurs and NGOs. This proposal concerns precisely these facilitations for small operators. It is proposed that the Act on the Incomes Information System be amended to extend the time limits for the provision of information to the Incomes Register in respect of in-kind benefits, advances on salaries, reimbursement of tax-exempt costs and lump sums paid by the registered association up to EUR 200. The transitional period for the imposition of late payment would be extended by one year so that, as a general rule, the late payment would only be made on the basis of the late notification of payments made on or after 1 January 2021. In addition, the provisions on late payment would be revised with regard to declarations of in-kind benefits. It is proposed to amend the Tax Procedure Act so as to exempt competition awards of up to EUR 100 which are not related to the employment or employment relationship from the obligation to notify bystanders. The law is now due to come into force from the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u63	And a conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u64	Mr President! This income register reform is an excellent example of how, first of all, a very forward-looking digitalization reform can be carried out and then further developing legislation and practices in good dialogue with the most relevant stakeholders. The government has really taken action to ensure that once it has been identified that there is room for correction in the system, then those shortcomings will be rectified quickly. This has become a major thank-you, especially for businesses and organisations, all the smallest players who have previously found it difficult to report these very small amounts and many other less widely used features in this system. That is why I should like to express my thanks to all those who have been developing this system, and at the same time hope that similar arrangements can be put in place elsewhere than in the field of taxation. After all, Finland is very progressive, and where, for example, in the United States a normal employee may have to hire a separate consultant to handle his own tax return, many of us do not necessarily think about his tax return at all, because the system is so largely automated and relies so much on confidence in each taxpayer, so that the individual does not have to worry that something will go wrong if he does not hire an expert to look after his own business. This same regime based on digitalisation, automation and, above all, strong trust should be used elsewhere. A new example of these excellent tax practices can be found on the social security side, where many points, especially those of the smallest, most recent benefits, are made easy to proceed with rather than a review of trust, double-checking and asking for further clarifications. In particular, many people who live on the basis of general housing allowance, income support and other minimum benefits have pointed out that, at the moment, bureaucracy and the running of applications, more time is spent on additional studies than on social work, which has, however, been a key element of our system of income support. So in the future, it would be great to see the same great customer orientation, automation and trust on the social security side, to which the brilliant Finnish Tax Administration has long relied. Finns really are worthy of trust, Finns are good at discussing the development of administration, and we should all remember that for people that administration is basically done, so it would be a pleasure to see these same fine principles and this same flexible development arrangement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u65	Mr President! I think this is a proposal which we, the Minister, thanked for in the previous debate when a few days ago there was another similar correction in this area. In other words, when we see problems in practice, it is better to correct them immediately. On the previous occasion, a little more time was taken to what is currently under discussion for these particular pension income and others to come into the register. Now, then, this proposal concerns these situations in which certain deadlines are postponed or extended. And then there has also been a lot of public debate about the fact that, according to this previous interpretation, these very small prizes had to be announced, perceived as a rather bureaucratic, difficult and unpleasant arrangement, and this is where it comes in. And I am sure that it will be very different associations, NGOs, small businesses, many, who will now be relieved by this proposal. In that sense, this will be necessary and timely, for which I thank you. There is one thing — and we will, in any case, be discussing this in Parliament, as we are already discussing in the tax section of the Committee on Finance — that is to say, which, in this context, is perhaps worth mentioning and perhaps looking at on a very specific basis, because there is also the aspect here that, when we no longer have to register the prize of up to EUR 100, the recipient of the prize will have to present this in the register itself. And, of course, when you think many times about the situation from the point of view of the prize-winner, there are very small lots there too, and I could imagine that this could also contribute to confusion and, once again, we might be in a situation where we wonder again whether we should correct. That is why I am sure we will be opening up this issue there in the tax section, and I would hope that Parliament will also consider this and whether we may be able to accommodate this point in this context. At least so quickly — we have not yet had a wide consultation of experts — it would seem that there is a place for reflection here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u66	Madam President! Indeed, under Sipilä’s government, bureaucracy was dismantled. There were several hundred items there that eased daily bureaucracy for the various actors in society. Of course, this development of the income information system was also carried out during its government. As such, this is an excellent digital system, but there was also bureaucracy, which was not wanted. This was also a problem for the municipalities, and we have now, in the amending budget, fixed the tax contributions of these municipalities by some 237 million earlier. Let us hope that through these reforms and improvements the system will then be a good one. Indeed, Mr Viitanen also raised the point of view of this recipient, and I hope that the debate in the State Finance Tax Section and in our Parliament will also take a position on this. Of course, this in itself will make it easier to dismantle the bureaucracy of our third sector and of our volunteers in two ways: this EUR 100 notification limit, but then this obligation to report periodic payments of EUR 200 from five days to one month gives leeway to associations. For all these small ones, it is said, it is important to correct the bugs in the sense that we Finns are still living by the letter of the law, that there will be no such things, which in some way provokes the operators themselves and others in vain, so that we will have so-called entries or delays in these matters. This is an excellent thing, and I certainly hope for a good debate. The EUR 100 limit must have come from somewhere, but I would like to think about doubling it myself, so that it would be the same as in the case of a fixed-term lump sum, but this will certainly be the subject of a debate as to whether the limit is in place and whether all the players are in the right position. A welcome correction to this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u67	Madam President! I think it is important that the government has now made such adjustments to the Incomes Register, and, as we have seen, the Incomes Register did not go off just as it was thought. At present, municipalities have a major problem with the way both the tax card reform and the Incomes Register have contributed to the assessment of tax revenues in municipalities and how they have ultimately accumulated. These changes, which are now being made, are particularly important for these small players. They have caused a lot more bureaucracy and the five-day reporting obligation has been very strict. If you think of sports clubs and various associations and the like, it is hardly every day that there is a volunteer sitting in front of a computer making these entries, so this is a sensible change. In the course of the speeches, the question was whether at least the prizewinner would then have to report these at all in the case of a small number. It must be borne in mind that the original idea of the Incomes Register was, however, that, in the long term, this is intended to bring together social security data and tax data as well as wage data, and in that respect, if a different income has come in any form, it is justifiable that these incomes, if not otherwise, will be reported, for example, as a result of the payment of Kela's benefits. Indeed it is extremely important that such very trivial prizes, there were listed, as I remember, candy bags and medals and trophys and similar types of... It has been absurd for these to be run and then for conscientious persons to think about how to move forward with these practices. I am sure that at least the sports organisation will thank you for bringing this reform forward in this respect. Otherwise, I believe that this long-term income register system will be one of the most important cornerstones of our social security reform, which is why it is not worth being discouraged by these early-stage problems, but rather continuing to work and develop further and really make the income register work as well as possible so that it can then be built on top of other registers. This has been the starting point of the Christian Democrats' model, of encouraging basic security, of the idea that we have a real-time income register, so that we can be sure that it is always encouraging to take up work, and that social security and tax information are also compatible with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u68	Mr President! The merits of the proposal have already been stated many times and I will not repeat them, but perhaps a little more precisely about that EUR 100 notification limit. Today, when taxation has been automated so far, the average person does not have to complete the tax return, and in this case, when there is still such exceptional income, competitive rewards from someone other than the employer, who may come up once every three years or even less, then the fact that they should be remembered and made aware of the average half-years after the event in the tax return — when, in a way, the equivalent of small sums of money winning from a system are covered by other taxes, for example in the case of lottery tax or betting profits on a completely different level of tax revenue — would be very sensitive to the fact that only a few percent of these conscientious taxpayers would report such individual competitive prizes. Again, it is problematic for the tax system that only a small proportion should comply with tax laws. It is similar to the situation in the case of dog tax that the reported dogs were only a few percent of what was seen on the street or on the forest roads. This kind of trap should probably be able to avoid this smart tax system, and it might be the right solution right now to directly provide that these competition awards from non-employees of less than EUR 100 would not be subject to tax either. It can be easily written then that if there are more than a certain number of such things, such as more than 500 a year, then that situation would change. It is possible to write further standards like this if you consider too simple this model that they would be completely exempt from tax. In this policy a lot of talk about the May Day satas, then maybe this could be something like the ice fishing season, that the ice fishing prizes would be tax-free and a large proportion of the citizens would be satisfied. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u69	Madam President! There have been some good speeches here. We have just heard about this problem when we are already covered by other taxes. Well, of course I also understand the view that it is related to Kela's benefits, because now, before the big social security reform, we are in a situation where many are counted in the results that then reduce them... Let us now hope that this does not extend to goods, so that the recipient of the prize would have to assess if he got the washing machine, what it is worth, and whether it is a prize for which it can be considered necessary in the family, and then it would reduce income support and so on. At this stage, the report could also include guidance that will then also guide Kela and the authorities in their interpretations, and then perhaps the little one of the zealous officials or officials can take the whole thing off the other track. In my opinion, Mr Koskinen, it is a very good view that the small sums of money are not there. For my part, I can say that it might be that you might not be able to report something if it is that what the levels are is... It is hoped — and I believe — that the committee will, after discussions, be able to see that as At this point, the associations have been well taken into account and raised, now that this has been corrected, thanks to the government. But it would still be very good if the committee hearing could also take account of what Mr Essayah has said, that there are certain things that need to be taken into account, but it would not go to the side where the person himself has to judge the value of someone, such as the goods, and if it is significant, then it would have to be cashed out and there would be some sort of consequences.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u70	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on PeVM 2/2019 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided. President-in-Office of the Committee, Mr Ojala-Niemelä: presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u71	Madam President! The report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the report of the Parliamentary Ombudsman for 2018. This time, other committees were also given the opportunity to give their opinion on the report. Opinions on the report were therefore issued by the Administrative Committee, the Legal Committee, the Education Committee, the Social Affairs and Health Committee and the Labour and Equal Opportunities Committee. In dealing with the report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has, first of all, drawn attention to the Ombudsman's activities in the light of statistical data. Some 5,600 complaints were received during the reporting year, which is the second largest number ever. Just over 5400 complaints were resolved during the reporting year. At the end of the reporting year There were no complaints pending in the Ombudsman’s Office more than one year ago. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore considers it important that the objective of the time frame for dealing with complaints has been achieved despite the increase in the number of complaints. The Constitutional Committee has not separately assessed the Ombudsman’s individual solutions or positions. More generally, this is the way to deal with the reports of the law enforcement authorities. The committee's report focuses on the bigger lines and rarely has a position been taken on the issues raised in the context of an individual solution. Following the Ombudsman's report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has drawn attention to the organisation of regulatory oversight. In the past, the committee has already considered it important to ensure that the Ombudsman has the competent primary supervisors under his control. The role of the Ombudsman can be seen, inter alia, to supplement supervision and to ensure that the arrangements for judicial review function as intended. In relation to the ombudsman, the special supervisory authorities are the Regional State Administrative Agencies, the Social and Health Authorisation and Control Agency and the special advisers. In its report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses the importance of the proper organisation of official controls and the sufficient resources for such controls. The second question, which unfortunately has come up again, is the problem of fundamental rights protection in relation to restrictions on children in private child welfare institutions. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the problems have not been limited, as is also evident from the Ombudsman's report. These include non-legal restrictive measures, the way in which restrictive measures are taken and the circumstances under which they are adopted, as well as the lack of communication and consultation of children. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the implementation of the fundamental rights of children in the protection of children also requires in practice adequate monitoring of the functioning of child welfare institutions. The Committee also stresses the importance of education and awareness-raising for those working in child protection. The report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also deals with the issue of improving the division of duties and cooperation between the highest level of judicial supervision. The question of developing the division of labour and cooperation between the Chancellor of Justice and the Parliamentary Ombudsman has previously been raised in connection with the reports of the Legal Officers since 2015. The division of duties of the Supreme Judicial Supervisors has been examined in a working group set up by the Ministry of Justice, whose report was finalised in June 2019. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs states that it is important that this matter, which has been rushed by the committee in the past, should proceed without delay. The report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs concludes with the committee's proposal that Parliament should have no objections to the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u72	Mr President! The Ombudsman’s report before us gives a clear picture of the Ombudsman’s activities and the problems raised. As the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has already pointed out, the Ombudsman received some 5,600 complaints during the reporting year, which is the second largest number ever. In its report on the report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has welcomed the fact that the objective of the time frame for dealing with complaints has been achieved despite the increase in the number of complaints. In its report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has paid particular attention, inter alia, to the significant problems related to fundamental rights protection in the context of the amendment of the Child Welfare Act in relation to the limitation measures imposed on children in private child welfare institutions in the context of the Ombudsman's practice of judicial review. The problems associated with Pe-rus security have not been limited. Among other things, the limitation of children's rights without a legal basis has been raised. According to the media, young people in a child welfare unit had, for example, been stripped naked. This kind of activity is not based on law. In addition, in some cases, young people were virtually completely isolated from other people. The Assistant Ombudsman has rightly insisted that permanent isolation and restrictions on social relations should be abolished. Mr President! It is important that all non-legally based practices that violate the rights of the child are eliminated in all child protection units. According to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, any action taken by public or private social care, courts, administrative authorities or legislative bodies concerning children must primarily take into account the best interests of the child. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the implementation of the fundamental rights of children in the protection of children also requires in practice adequate monitoring of the functioning of child welfare institutions. The Committee also stresses the importance of training and awareness-raising for those working in child protection. The right of a child to good treatment, care and education must be strengthened. It is certainly still necessary to clarify the borderline between generally accepted conventional education and restrictions on fundamental rights. For example, where there is a need to restrict the fundamental rights of a person in an institution, restrictions must be laid down by law and justified separately in each case and for each fundamental right. Children placed outside the home are also entitled to care, to restrictions and to respect human dignity. Mr President! In this connection, I would like to draw attention to a problem. Last March, the system of assistance to victims of trafficking in human beings and the European Institute of Criminal Policy, HEUNI, published a report on trafficking and exploitation of human beings against children and young people in Finland. According to the survey, children and young people in Finland are exploited in a manner that refers to trafficking in human beings, for example, in criminal activities. However, they are not identified as victims of trafficking in human beings. The report showed that criminal activities in Finland involve abuse, particularly among young people fleeing school homes. I think it is important that this problem is given more attention and addressed more rigorously. Mr President! Due to the significant shortcomings identified in law enforcement, the Government must closely monitor compliance with the Child Welfare Act and the functioning of private child welfare institutions and also address these shortcomings by means of legislative measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u73	Mr President! A few weeks ago, we visited the Parliamentary Ombudsman's office with the Legal Committee. This visit gave us new perspectives to support the legislative work on the basis of this report. I would like to refer to the report for a specific examination on pages 120 to 123 of the chapter entitled ‘Ten-centred Finnish fundamental and human rights problems’. According to the Ombudsman's report, there are shortcomings in fundamental and human rights such as the conditions and treatment of the elderly, the protection of children, as described by Mr Immonen, the exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities, the legal protection of foreigners, the conditions and treatment of prisoners and access to health services. In addition, in his report, the Ombudsman highlights restrictive practices against the self-determination of the institutions, the lengthy processing of judicial procedures and the shortcomings in basic education and the prevention of these problems. Mr President! The Ombudsman's report speaks a harsh language about the implementation of fundamental and human rights in Finland, and the problems that arise in this report should be taken seriously. We must do everything in this Chamber to promote fundamental and human rights and to remedy the shortcomings in the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u74	Madam President! This report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has highlighted the fact that, at the moment, these complaints are actually going to be a record number and yet it has been possible to keep to these deadlines. In other words, there are no complaints over a year old in that office of the Ombudsman, and in that sense this is, of course, extremely important. In this referral debate, which dealt with this Ombudsman's report, these problems relating to care for the elderly and the exercise of the rights of the elderly were raised in particular. For this, we can now thank the Government for the fact that a post of Ombudsman for the elderly is being set up in Finland. And yes, I have to say that the Christian Democrats also want to raise their own tail a little. There have been many of our activists to promote this issue, including through the citizens' initiative, and to raise this debate, that we need our own law enforcement officer to deal with the elderly too. Of course, we have vigilance, we have transparency, but we know that these control appropriations and also the quality of controls, including these various surprise checks and similar ones, require improvement. In that sense, it is important that we have such an independent law enforcement officer, who will then be able to make wider recommendations on the services and rights of the elderly and also make annual reports, for example. Then, in this report and in the debates, the problem of child protection has also been raised. According to press reports, significant shortcomings have been identified, particularly in these many private child welfare institutions. In this speech, as I recall, there were restrictions on self-determination relating to disabled people and those in institutions, such as drug addicts. These are some of those difficult cases sometimes. In some cases, we will certainly have to weigh such factors as when a person is a danger to himself or to others, and then, on the other hand, the fact that we have a very high degree of self-determination in the Constitution. And when there is no certainty as to how well a person understands his own condition, then such things will surely have to be done in that practical work, for example, in order to guarantee the safety of others. Here, at the end of the committee’s report, it is well said that ‘the Ombudsman’s activity has been more clearly transferred from the control of the activities of the authorities to the In fact, on this last point, I would like to expand the debate on what we have had a great deal of discussion recently, that is, on this new line of the Assistant Ombudsman: he sees it as a problem that the church space is used as a place for Christmas celebrations, and he has considered that it has such special religious meanings. In this context, I would like to highlight the spirit of positive religious freedom that we have in the Finnish Constitution, and also to remind you that we in the Constitutional Committee have in due course stated that we can have these elements of Christian cultural heritage at the school Christmas celebration, such as the Christmas gospel or the oratory of the "Angel Heaven". Then, on the other hand, it is possible to arrange a separate service, so that there is a parallel program for those who do not want to attend. Now, on which the guidelines of the Finnish National Board of Education have so far been based, the Assistant Ombudsman has made a new approach. So he considers that even if the Christmas feast in that church space was in accordance with the instructions of the National Board of Education, i.e. does not contain any other recognitional features, there would be only these elements of the Christian cultural heritage, nevertheless the church space is a problematic establishment. This will certainly cause some confusion in schools at the moment, because we still have a solution from Western Finland and Inland Finland, which states that organising the graduation ceremony in the church space does not in itself make the event religiously committed. Surely many schools have also kept this instruction in mind when they consider where the school’s Christmas celebration can be held. It must be borne in mind that we have municipalities where there are simply no facilities for all school students, on the one hand, their parents and grandparents, or who all want to attend the school Christmas party. I therefore have to hope that the Constitutional Committee, whose members are here, will ask the Assistant Ombudsman to be heard in such an own-initiative hearing, because I think it is important to clarify this now. However, this clearly contradicts what we in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have previously stated and also the way in which the National Board of Education has then instructed schools on that basis. If you still think about what the law says, the Basic Education Act and the Basic Education Decree do not recognize the Christmas feast at all. In other words, there is talk of a school graduation party and it has been given precise instructions in the decree. On the other hand, it is known that the openings of the day should be arranged, but the Christmas feast is one of the other school celebrations mentioned in the instructions of the Finnish National Board of Education. From that point of view, too, when this has been considered illegal, it must of course be asked which law is contrary when the law does not specifically stipulate that a Christmas party is necessary. In fact, I hope that the Christmas party will continue to be and will also be there in the church building, provided that the instructions of the National Board of Education that have been extremely effective to date are followed. It is to be hoped that the Constitutional Committee will indeed return to this, because we have a church space that is used for more than just services. Concerts are held there, and, for example, caps have been arranged in schools in Helsinki, and invitations have been arranged in parish facilities — sometimes in the past years there has been a polling station held in parish facilities. In that sense, I hope that this new approach will now be drawn to the attention of the Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Affairs. These criteria should now be made clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u75	Now it would be good if we were to stick mainly to this report for 2018. But when this issue came up, it should be possible to do so — is it okay if we do so? — to take a short round of debates so that approximately one per group can speak and then hear the Ombudsman's reply to this. — I would ask those who wish to speak here to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u76	Mr President! As Mrs Essayah referred to, the Constitutional Committee exceptionally took this kind of one solution to weigh up five years ago. While the National Board of Education was still writing its instructions on the work of the schools, including these celebrations and the consideration of the various religionists and non-religious people in them, it was as if such an exceptional social order was to look at the Constitutional Committee with a little wider shoulders, which would be the correct interpretation. And as far as I am concerned, this has been done well, both in these guidelines of the education administration and in school-specific practice. After all, that solution did not take a stand on these building issues, and it is, as it were, worth the second Mass. We have so many buildings, different parish halls: some hardly notice that it is a church space, and then there are yet another very distinctive church buildings in which:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u77	Mr President! I think the Parliamentary Ombudsman is doing valuable work. We have many problems with child protection, family status, debtor status and many others. Somehow it feels like this society has gone to its head, when our senior law enforcement officers have to think about things like summer and Christmas parties, these kinds of things that have belonged to our traditions of age all. I think that they should be so obvious that we should not legalise them. They are a Finnish culture, a Finnish tradition, so that I do not really understand this debate. I think we should be allowed to live here as before, and if anyone does, then he will be out of those opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u78	Madam President! Tolerance does not mean that traditions should be abandoned, but in fact we must also defend and uphold Finnish traditions in Finland. Fortunately, as Mr Essayah pointed out earlier, we now have a situation where Suvivirsi is allowed to play and Hosanna is allowed to echo at school parties. It's a valuable part of our tradition. In fact, the position taken in this statement by the Assistant Ombudsman was also taken into account — the Deputy Ombudsman stated that the holding had a religious significance — and this does make the situation quite problematic. We have hoped that the churches could be used more versatilely, and there have been student festivals, there have been various concerts and others. If all of these are now cut off, then we are in a very special situation. I personally hope that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will take a position on this matter and will consider whether it is in itself a restrictive state.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u79	Mr President! I myself, as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, have in some way taken the view that we may not as such be addressing individual issues. In such a situation, when it comes to the statement by the Assistant Ombudsman, which has been the subject of a public debate involving a wide range of conflicting arguments, it could of course be good if the Assistant Ombudsman himself specified what he meant. But if I now tell you how I understood it, then I have understood that the Assistant Ombudsman took a stand that it is not ok that the school Christmas party as if completely resembles such a pattern of religious rite. And I'm sure that each of us understands that, and in his own case he might not wish that his own child would attend a Christmas celebration that would include, for example, the hallmarks of a religious rites that are not his or her own immediate religion.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u80	Madam President! Thank you for this opportunity to have this short debate. First of all, I must say that I am the one who distinguishes the two things from each other. There are places where the school’s Christmas feast is held, and I do not see it linked to it — even though I pay church tax and contribute to the maintenance of these facilities — that we have a school Christmas party and a certificate-sharing...
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u83	Madam President! In my view, this line of the Assistant Ombudsman raises the question of whether or not a church is a religious practice, whether a church farm itself has a religious meaning. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has previously stated that Christian celebrations, such as the hymn, are part of Finnish culture — that is, they are not in themselves, a single hymn, yet a religious practice, or a Christmas picture is not a religious practice — so I wonder how a mere church space is considered to be a practice of religion, if there is a very similar Christmas celebration that could be held there, for example, in the school gymnasium. That is why I too hope — because this has now caused a great deal of confusion and will change the well-established practice of many schools — that this will be resolved.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u84	Madam President! For example, I find this debate about schoolchildren’s going to a party in a congregational building very strange. Our entire Western culture is based on Christianity and the tradition of what comes out of it, and then one statement starts to challenge it. In practice, it is a question of a very small minority group starting to dictate how this education is to be done in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u88	Mr President! Why do things that are common traditions and work in practice make a big social problem? This has certainly been considered by many Finns in recent days. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated in practical terms that the committee has not intended to change the practice in relation to various school traditions, such as graduations, and that such celebrations are part of Finnish culture. However, the Assistant Ombudsman has now considered ‘the organisation of the school graduation ceremony in the church hall to be a problem in principle, since the place intended to provide services to This was a direct quote from the solution. So it has a problem not only with the content of the celebration but also with the use of the church space itself. So, is Pre-Töölö High allowed to arrange the caps at the Temple Square Church? And are the music - oriented classes in Porolahti primary school allowed to perform in the churches of Eastern Helsinki? This is what I asked the National Board of Education lawyer today. He couldn't answer. The principals are currently asking these questions, in the course of the Jubilee,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u89	Thank you, Madam President. It is now of the utmost importance to resolve this new line, that it conveys religious meanings in itself and that it is, in principle, problematic to have opportunities in the church hall. So far it has not been, as long as it has followed the guidance of the National Board of Education, which has been based on the wise and good guidelines of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. So now it would be important to resolve this contradiction, and that is why I hope so. Although Mr Koskinen said here that this is an intervention in an individual matter, there is no one, because this now concerns the whole tradition of this celebration, which the Constitutional Committee has previously laid down, and that is why this does not affect an individual issue. Instead, I would have liked the Assistant Ombudsman to have touched only one particular issue, that is to say he would have taken a stand on this situation at the Kouvola Naukio School, where apparently there was, probably, an excess, and he would have said so, but when he also went on to state that now all the church buildings have been made in some way in themselves to convey religious meanings, which are regarded as problematic in principle to keep the schools in question.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u90	And does the Ombudsman, Mr Jääskeläinen, want to answer this question? - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u91	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Indeed, this decision by Assistant Ombudsman Pasi Hölönen rose in the weekend. I understand, at least in part, that was due to the fact that this decision itself was not available on the Ombudsman's website at the time of the weekend. This is because we have a practice based on the law of publicity which requires the parties to be informed of the solution before it is published. Now, according to my information, this solution had been made available to the parties concerned in the middle of last week and would have been put online at the beginning of this week, but now this decision had been made public by the parties concerned, and then this weekend it was not possible to put it online again. I cannot go and comment and assess the ruling of the Assistant Ombudsman. Assistant ombudsmen exercise the same powers in the cases before them as the ombudsman, and the Ombudsman is not the manager of assistant ombudsmen and cannot, for example, reopen a case decided by the assistant ombudsman. I can say that I have read this decision and I personally do not see that this would be in conflict with any of the existing positions of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The question to which this debate may now have been clarified — whether the school graduation ceremony can be held in church halls if it does not contain any elements of religious practice other than that church hall — is a question which, according to the information in this decision or any other information I have, the Constitutional Committee has not specifically taken a position on. It is clear from this decision that there has been little previous law enforcement practice in this respect. Perhaps I can bring them up here in case these are not known to everyone — perhaps a little perspective on this. There has been an Ombudsman here in 1996 — this must have been Mr Lauri Lehtimaja, I believe, on the basis of this date, I am not quite sure, but I would assume that this has been the case — to assess the use of premises owned by religious communities as voting places in municipal elections. The Ombudsman stated that efforts should be made to ensure that the electoral apartments are as neutral as possible in terms of ideological connections. According to the Ombudsman, the use of facilities specifically intended to practise religion, such as a church hall, as a polling station, was not appropriate. Then, in 2009, the Assistant Ombudsman has assessed the organisation of the conscription of the conscripts at the premises of the religious communities. This is obviously not a matter of church halls, but of some other state of the religious community, and his assistant Ombudsman has found it somewhat problematic. And now Assistant Attorney General Pasi Hölönen has considered it a problem in principle to organise the school graduation ceremony in the church hall. But, as far as I know, there is no position of the Constitutional Committee on this issue, and if it does, it is a matter for the Constitutional Committee, but of course the Assistant Ombudsman has not been able to take into account any position that has not yet been taken up by the Constitutional Committee. This is perhaps in this respect. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u92	Thank you. — And then we go to the list of speakers and to this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u93	Madam President! There are indeed important issues to be addressed here, and the situation and shortcomings of the most vulnerable citizens, for example in the care of the elderly and in the protection of children, which deserve serious consideration. According to this report, police complaints are one of the largest groups of complaints, which is of course related to the fact that the police, in carrying out their statutory tasks, have to deal with fundamental and human rights, for example in the use of coercive measures. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Administrative Committee makes quite a strong point about how police resources, their allocation, the number of police officers and the fact that, unfortunately, we still have a weak level of police personnel in relation to other Nordic countries, for example. It is good if this number of policemen can be increased somewhat, but I would draw attention to the fact that in the past parliamentary groups have agreed on a much higher level than they are now reaching during this parliamentary term. Mr President! Indeed, at the moment, this police situation has led to the police prioritising the investigation of more serious crimes and urgent alerts and then concentrating their resources on the main settlements, which, for example, affects the security situation in sparsely populated areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u94	Madam President! Indeed, the situation of the police in Finland is somewhat unevenly divided, and there is not much. North Karelia as a province may show at its worst what this situation is today. Yes, there are so many policemen in Joensuu that sometimes I'm surprised when they're really full of them there when they're driving around the city in different contexts, but if the grandmother of Möhkön from Hymmantz calls that the wolves are in the yard, come and help us, there's no way they're going to help you. Everyone knows that phone call is going to be wasted. No, there's no help. There's no help. Perhaps the illustration was, for example, that when bear hunting began last autumn, this so-called controlled hunt, yes, there was surveillance then, there were police officers in Ilomants laudably. Even my summer cottage on the side of the road, where I've never seen a cop before, was a police car. Whatever you've been waiting for, I don't think he's signed. That is what I would like to stress to the Ombudsman now that, in terms of security, the view of the police in the municipalities is extremely important. We have that situation in a sparsely populated area... After all, most of Finland’s surface area is such a so-called forested Finland, where urban areas are missing. There may be a small municipal centre here, but the others who live outside its urban area are in an insecure position. You can't get help if you call. I could give you so many examples, but because of the short time, I'm not going to go to them. Let me just say about the police situation in those areas: the distances are so long that there will be no help. Our — Ilomantsi is my municipality of residence — As far as Ilomants is concerned, the rescue has been that we have a Border Guard. In the framework of PTR cooperation, the police will then issue an order to the border guards to complete a security mission or to begin carrying out its security mission before they themselves arrive. That is quite possible under this law. Without the excellent, skilled work of the Border Guard, we would be in real trouble. Of course, it is up to this Chamber to what money is found and how it is allocated, but Parliament is allowed to look in the mirror here. That sense of security in those rural communities has been weak, especially recently this wolf situation has become completely out of control. I do not know what all the instruments of the Ombudsman are, what he can use in this respect. I'm sure there'll be some in the Parliament if there's any desire. If we don't deal with this security situation and these particular wolf situations in the near future... This is absurd paddling. It is inconceivable that if a person goes into another’s yard without permission, it violates domestic peace and no matter what is broken and that person will be removed by the police very quickly. But when I went to the game info in that nearby conference room last week or was it the other week, it seemed that wolves could run around the yard freely. The little children who play there take the risk every day that their lives can go when they go there. Finland has gone to such dimensions that these discussions make no sense. People need to be safe, even if they lived in the city.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u95	Mr President! I have to comment on Mr Hoskonen's speech on that problem. I agree that the problem of harassing wolves needs to be addressed, but now I do not quite understand that when you said that you are violating domestic peace, did you mean that the Parliamentary Ombudsman should then begin to investigate the movement of wolves? That's kind of what made me feel like it. [Hannu Hoskonen’s interlude] For the first time, it has been tried that, since the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has traditionally produced a report on the reports of the legal controllers, now that this report of the Parliamentary Ombudsman is concerned, the parliamentary procedure has now been reformed in such a way that certain substance committees have also been able to give an opinion. The Committee on Legal Affairs gave its part, and we heard experts and we were very pleased that the Ombudsman's report also contains separately compiled information on what the Parliamentary Ombudsman's view of new legislative projects was about what would be good to reform. We have also taken a position on issues such as prison care, child protection and the implementation of fundamental and human rights. This whole statement is readable, and I am not going to start spelling it out here from start to finish. Of course, we in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights have not taken a position on individual solutions or positions, but rather on the role of the Ombudsman. There was a good discussion here about the practice of religion and culture. I will not go back to that, I will just say that the Finnish tradition is fine and I would like it to remain, as in the case of Christian fundamental values in Finland, which are not necessarily tied to religion, but are such European, general democratic concepts.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u96	Mr President! The Ombudsman's report is one of the most important reports to be dealt with in this Chamber. Human values are fundamental values on which I believe the welfare state is built. Fundamental rights are literally fundamental rights in which equality and the realisation of human rights are very important. It is particularly important for the Ombudsman to draw attention to the main shortcomings of the welfare state, which unfortunately exist, as has been said here. For example, child protection has recently been a headline, thanks not only to the Ombudsman but also to the Chancellor of Justice and the investigative journalists. Monitoring of child welfare facilities has proved inadequate and many child welfare facilities have also proved to be questionable, in particular with regard to these restrictive measures. It is obvious that insufficient effort has been made on the resources of control. The shortage of resources is evident and the situation varies widely across the country. For example, the situation in the open area of Northern Finland has been particularly difficult, as I have heard. As far as I know, additional appropriations have been allocated in the amending budgets, but the situation needs to be carefully monitored. And with regard to these illegal restrictive measures taken in child welfare establishments, it is good that a working group is currently working in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to examine how this should be addressed and whether, for example, there is a need to update the legislation on measures to limit child protection — although it was only in the last period that we had in Parliament — or whether, for example, there is a need to tighten up or otherwise intervene in the direction of guidance. But I think the most important thing now, in any case, is that people in a child welfare institution have an understanding of how the Child Welfare Act should be interpreted, that the human rights of children taken into care are respected. As far as the services of disadvantaged people at all are concerned, there are shortcomings in supervision, not only in the area of child protection. One of the problems I see here is that there has been a strong increase in self-monitoring in recent years, and it is precisely as a means of self-monitoring that it has been found to be inadequate in many areas, for example in the services of the elderly. I believe that the very important question is how to develop self-monitoring, when it is obvious that we will continue to have it, and I think that we should look at it with our own clarification. I believe that Parliament should also pay attention to the whole of supervision, that is to say, to the responsibility of the municipalities after the agreement has been signed with a service provider, whether it is child protection or services for the elderly or, for example, services for the disabled. As far as I know, the Chancellor of Justice is in the process of developing self-monitoring, and if that is the case, I hope, then I think it is a very important matter. Finally, I would like to say that, when the overall reform of social and health services is hopefully completed during this period, we must ensure that particular attention is paid to monitoring, that it is developed in such a way that the responsibilities are clear that the supervisory responsibilities are tightened up and that sanctions are also updated. Thank you again to the Ombudsman for this excellent report.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u97	Madam President! The Assistant Ombudsman raises an important issue: how to organise good early childhood education. Early childhood education refers to day care or family day care. Early childhood education is carried out in a situation where the resources of municipalities differ significantly. This can ultimately lead to equality no longer occurring in different localities or in the case of an individual child. The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media believes that there is a need to explore ways of ensuring equality in early childhood education. All children must be able to be treated equally.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u98	And, finally, does Mr Jääskeläinen wish to speak? - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u99	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Thank you for this debate. Perhaps I would also like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for its report on that report. And perhaps I can also say that I believe that this possibility, that the specialised committees other than the Constitutional Committee were also able to give an opinion on the Ombudsman's report this time if they wanted to do so, was good practice and gave the opportunity to discuss matters within the remit of each special committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u100	The 11th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Audit Committee on TrVM 2/2019 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided. Statement by Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u101	Mr President! The report by Parliament's auditors on Parliament's financial statements, annual report and accounting and management for 2018 and the report by the Committee on Audit is now in this debate. The Audit Committee has consulted, among other things, the Chairman of the Auditors, the Secretary-General of Parliament and the Administrative Director and the Parliamentary Personnel Organisations. The auditors' reports have again been so-called clean, i.e. there has been no comment from the auditors. The Audit Committee notes that the audit has been carried out in accordance with good auditing practice. In its report, the committee has drawn attention to the appropriations allocated and their use, as well as the costs of operations and their changes. As far as Parliament is concerned, the committee has raised the issue of congestion and the ability of staff to cope, particularly at the end of the parliamentary term and the parliamentary term, and the need to develop transparency and a culture of discussion in the parliamentary office and, thirdly, the need to continue in the office to promote sustainable development and reduce CO2 emissions, and also the importance of monitoring the indoor air situation in the parliamentary property in the future. In its proposal for a decision, the committee has proposed that Parliament should have no objections to the reports. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u102	Mr President! As the committee's report states, Parliament has been able to work fairly well within the limits of the appropriations allocated to it, and the audit committee had nothing to say about this. On the other hand, the concern about job congestion and the ability of staff to cope is also reflected in this report. In particular, the workload of committees and those working in plenary sessions has been disproportionate from time to time. Workers are stretched and flexible here in Parliament according to the working situation, and I am sure it is part of the job description here, but somewhere there are limits to flexibility and stretching. These limits were exceeded in the last period for many workers. I hope that lessons have been learned from this and that the situation in the last period will not be repeated, because we also need to find ways of preventing excessive work congestion and excessive workload. President! It is also important that the culture of Parliament develops in such a way as to be more transparent, that it dares to bring up its own fatigue or other shortcomings in good time. In this context, I would like to stress, and after all this speech, that this Parliament is certainly a very good job, that is not the issue, but, in any case, we must also think about these shortcomings and the symptoms of exhaustion that have arisen. The working pressure of the Parliament can also be eased by improving legislative work in ministries. Last season, legislative proposals were so poorly prepared that a lot of extra work had to be done to correct and patch them up, and that too must have been an additional burden for the staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u103	Mr President! I personally have the positive position that I can continue to be a member of the Audit Committee. I've had some pretty good experiences there since last season. The committee is doing a valuable, important job, in my opinion, in a good, could you say, parliamentary spirit? After all, the committee rarely even votes on matters, we always try to reach consensus, and it is therefore good to deal with issues like this which have been discussed here today. I wish the new President strength in his work. He's very good at taking over this. In a sense, I would just like to say this in general, because often during the last period, too, we had these debates on very important issues as such within the Committee on Audit. It is a good thing that once again, in this report, the committee is drawing attention, among other things, to this very issue that Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen has just dealt with. Here the well-being of staff is very important. Of course, too often we have had to see situations in which, in the event of work congestion, resources are also being put to the test by staff. In that way, I think it is important that it should also be included in these reports and that it should be taken into account in the future in the planning, development and all aspects of work. Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, before that, drew attention to a very important issue, namely what is in a way the level of legislation coming from ministries and coming from ministers and how much more it is assumed that it is possible to rewrite the law here in Parliament, as it were. And that, of course, is not its task. I remember that there has been a long-term perspective, even for years, that Parliament has from time to time recorded in its own committees in its reports that it would have preferred a higher level of drafting of legislation. I do not want to put any blame on the officials in the ministries with this speech either, because they are also under similar pressure. We know that in these years of savings, which has been going on for a long time, resources have also been extremely tight in the ministries. Of course, it should be borne in mind that, overall, it is important for citizens' legal protection that this house should become good, well-developed legislation. And that is what we all take responsibility for, not only as legislators in this House, but also as if we can ensure that the staff have working conditions which, however, serve the ability and motivation of the staff and all this in this important work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u104	And the chairman of the committee, Alanko-Kahiluoto.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u105	Thank you, Speaker! Thank you, Mr Viitanen, for your encouragement and beautiful words and encouragement. I too would like to thank the Audit Committee for our very good cooperation. I am sure that this will be a good and constructive period, just as the previous periods of the Committee on Audit have traditionally been in this house. I still wanted to draw attention to this ability to keep up with the staff. In this committee's report, we have paid particular attention to the resources available to Parliament. But my impression is that it would also help to ease the pressure on staff in Parliament during peak periods, so that ministries always have up-to-date and adequate resources. If, if necessary, additional resources cannot be transferred from the ministry to the committees, then, of course, there will be a situation in which those who are experts in particular in the committees will then not be able to get help from that ministry. In other words, when we talk about the adequacy of resources, we must ensure not only that Parliament has sufficient resources but also that the ministries have sufficient resources. And this applies not only to the drafting stage of legislation, but also to the stage when the legislative proposals are in Parliament. When it comes to large packages, as was the case last season, for example, with this multi-thousand-page package of social services, of course this shortage of resources is evident at both ends, both in the Ministry and here in Parliament. But with these words, thank you all for a good conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u106	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Audit Committee on TrVM 3/2019 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided. Statement by Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u107	Mr President! Indeed, the report by the Audit Committee on the report of the National Audit Office to Parliament on the supervision of party funding in 2018 is now under discussion. The Party Act contains binding provisions on the transparency of funding for parties and party associations. Transparency is expected to increase confidence in political action and thus improve voting turnout. In addition, the aim is also to prevent corruption and undue involvement in the activities of parties. Parties, communities mentioned in the grant decisions and party related communities are subject to control by the Inspectorate on the basis of party law. There's about 150 people to watch. Other party associations of around 6000 are not subject to control by the Inspectorate. The Audit Office supervises the support referred to in the Party Act, the reporting of expenditure and funding for the election campaign and party support. The notification obligation shall cover aid of a value of at least EUR 1500 and information on the providers of such aid. According to the law, all payments received in the form of money, goods, services or other means of payment are, in principle, included. Only the performances specifically mentioned in the law do not constitute aid. The Agency shall report annually to Parliament on its activities under the supervision of party funding. In 2018, aid payments totalling EUR 2.8 million were announced in the notification register. According to the Audit Office, some of the additions to the declarations made in 2018 are the result of party financing audits carried out. In 2018, the Audit Office carried out audits on all nine parliamentary parties, their 13 local communities and district organisations operating in Häme, South-East Finland, Pirkanmaa and Savo-Karjala, which were audited by nine. A total of 31 inspections were carried out. According to the Agency, the up-to-date declarations of party funding are correct for the essential elements after the additions and provide material information on the aid received by the audited entities. As a general rule, the accounts of audited entities have also been properly managed in such a way that the supervision of the provisions of the party law can be carried out on the basis of the accounts. As in previous years, there are still shortcomings in the audit reports of auditors of supervised entities. In its report, the Audit Office also draws attention to the lack of interpretation of the grant conditions for state aid and the lack of contractual procedures. In its previous reports, the Audit Committee has pointed out the development needs for party funding and its monitoring. For example, candidates' contributions to all candidates of the parties, which, according to established practice, finance joint electoral work, must be regarded as a natural part of the funding of election work and should not be regarded as external support under the reporting obligation. The same applies to Parliament's duties. They should be treated in the same way as the charges levied on municipal trust actions. The committee has also stated that new guidelines should be introduced for legislative changes. Prime Minister Rinte's Government Programme contains a number of entries related to election and party funding regarding increased transparency and transparency of funding, as well as the development of notification and control. The Ministry of Justice will set up a parliamentary working group to investigate the development needs of party law, election finance law and electoral law. In addition to the entries in the Government Programme, the task force will also address the comments made by the Audit Office on state aid, as well as the development needs for election and party funding proposed by the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee welcomes the fact that the relevant legislative needs will now be clarified. The committee's opinion is that Parliament has no objections to the report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u108	Mr President! The need for developing party funding has also been discussed several times in this Chamber, and it is therefore good that there are now a number of electoral and party funding entries in the Government Programme concerning greater transparency and transparency of funding and the development of notification and control. It is good that the Ministry will set up a parliamentary working party to examine the development needs of party law, electoral funding law and electoral law, as the chairman of the committee mentioned in his speech. In the same context, these comments on state aid raised by the Audit Office and also the development needs previously highlighted by the Audit Committee regarding election and party funding and their monitoring can then be considered.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u109	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Audit Committee on TrVM 4/2019 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided. Presentation, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, chairman of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u110	Mr President! The Audit Committee has consulted the President of the Auditors, the Director-General of the National Audit Office and the Personnel Organisations of the National Audit Office on this issue. The auditors' reports are yet again so-called clean, so that the auditors have no comment on them. The Audit Committee notes that the audit has been carried out in accordance with good auditing practice. In its report, the Audit Committee has drawn attention to the appropriations allocated and their use and the costs and changes in the operation. With regard to the Audit Office, the committee has again raised the issue of the Agency's well-being at work, as the Audit Committee did last season. Several major reforms have been carried out in the National Audit Office in recent years. Examples include the transition to multi-purpose premises and the associated new operating methods, the new strategy for 2019-2023 and the ongoing management and organisational reform. On the basis of the hearings of the Audit Committee, the shortcomings in the welfare surveys at work are, most obviously, the result of the uncertainty surrounding the reforms and changes in practices. The Audit Committee has considered that management should be further developed in the National Audit Office. The staff of the Agency must be taken into account in the follow-up to the reforms and communication needs to be improved. The Audit Committee will continue to monitor developments in VTV's well-being at work. In its proposal for a decision, the committee has proposed that Parliament should have no objections to the reports. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u111	Mr President! The Agency has worked well within the limits of the appropriations allocated, and there was certainly no comment. As the chairman of the committee said, there have been major changes in the work and culture of the Audit Office over the last couple of years, and this has certainly also caused some workers to be burdened and exhausted. When operating methods, structures and management change at the same time, it is very human and understandable that people experience these changes in very different ways. Being in the middle of a change is a powerful thing. What is important, however, is that things have come to the fore, and hopefully there will be an open debate within the organisation about the shortcomings and possible shortcomings in well-being at work, because sweeping under the carpet of difficult matters will prevent them from being handled and developed. For example, no one can be denied or overturned the feeling of a deterioration in well-being at work, and at best this raising and handling of matters will help the entire working community to develop its activities. But since this process of change is still ongoing, the Audit Committee really decided to continue to monitor the development of well-being at work in the Audit Office.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u112	Mr President! In this context, I just wanted to say that it is a good thing that the committee is continuing the tradition of monitoring the well-being of staff in these contexts. After all, major reforms have been carried out in the National Audit Office, and since that transition is still taking place, it is of course very important that its monitoring and monitoring of the results of these reforms are also taken into account and taken into account. That is an important principle, and I also think it is important for the committee to record here that we will continue to monitor this well-being of staff here as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u113	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 6/2019 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u114	Mr President! That is what we have done in the tax section of the Committee on Finance with this report, and it is quite unanimous in saying that we agree with the government's proposal. The government is proposing that this tobacco tax be increased once again. This house is reasonably familiar with us. Since 2009, with the exception of 2011 and 2013, tax increases in tobacco tax have come, and they have actually come on the same principle as they are now, and in the same way they have been phased into force, which is where the government is going in this proposal. In other words, it is planned to raise this tobacco tax to around EUR 200 million during the government term. In practice, this starts with slightly smaller annual amounts, and in full the increase will come into effect after 2022. Of course, every time we talk about tobacco tax, we have to see that if we have to increase taxes, then in my opinion it is reasonable to think about it on a health basis, and precisely from that point of view these increases in tobacco tax are justified. Of course, in connection with these increases, Parliament has quite often stated that it is also a fiscal issue. However, through this tax too, as it were, through a tax on health, we also collect additional tax revenue for the common fund, which we then use to finance our welfare services. That way, it's a familiar principle. In the Committee's view, this gradual entry into force is justified. This is justified, among other things, by the fact that we can gradually go down this road of increase and, at the same time, of course, follow up the effects of this reform on imports and smuggling, on issues like this, because there was always talk of alcohol tax, tobacco tax, so we have to think that if it is easy to import more easily from one side of the border to Finland. Of course, that is not a good thing either, so it is not intended to increase such development. However, according to the studies to date, this threat has not been realised in these earlier increases, i.e. this moderate approach has been seen to be justified. In this own report, the committee also writes a little about the taxation of e-cigarettes. There are no increases in these taxes and it is justified, inter alia, by the fact that, once these taxes have been introduced in these liquids, there has been no availability of:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u115	Mr President! There is no dispute or counter-protests about this tax in itself, but I would like to briefly highlight a few somewhat critical aspects: Of course, that fiscal effect may be a pious wish, but I doubt it will be that much, for example, because I assume that tobacco consumption in general will decrease and, secondly, that foreign imports will increase. Secondly, I cannot fail to mention the detail of the past years that, during the last period of opposition, when the left accused the government of increasing income differentials, it was found at some point that, in fact, the income differentials and the cost of living in that respect had only increased the price of tobacco. Now that the left is in the government itself as its first act of raising the tobacco tax and now increasing the differences in living standards to the detriment of the poor population, this is, of course, quite interesting.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u116	Mr President! There has been a discussion in the Chamber this evening about the pains of our welfare state. It has just been said about child protection and care for the elderly, but it has to be said that major demographic health inequalities are one of the biggest shortcomings in the welfare state that it is important to tackle in all areas of policy, and I personally welcome the fact that tobacco prices are also being used to help reduce smoking. Fortunately, in Finland, for example, young people have gone well for a long time now — although statistics show that recently young people have been smoking again. Personally, I think it would be very important for us to use our tax euros then, as it were, to increase education and to pay attention to well-being. We know that the lowest-skilled and otherwise socially disadvantaged groups are those where smoking is started earlier, and the sooner smoking is started, the more difficult it will be to stop later. In other words, I would really like this particularly justified tax increase to be implemented, but at the same time, attention to education and, above all, to reducing health and well-being inequalities in society. I think that the government has done a good job and that there are good records in the Government Programme, for example, on reducing poverty in families with children.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u117	Mr President! I would like to say the same thing that Mr Mäkelä said earlier that the Rinte government may not have thought about this until the end because this tax burden on tobacco tax is heavier on low incomes, so this is, in the light of the studies, a purely low-income tax. In addition, there would certainly be a need for continuous monitoring and calculations of the increase in private imports from abroad. When it is known that Finns go abroad that much, they will quickly start bringing more cartons to Finland every time they visit the other side of the bay. So this may not be a good proposal from the government at all. Indeed, there may be a few different positions in the People's Party of Finland, but this was not opposed at the moment. But at least this is what I'm looking at pretty bad.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u118	Mr President! Yes, during the last period, the increase in income differentials was also influenced by factors other than this tobacco tax — which, of course, has such effects. Of course, we all know without saying that the policy of the last government was different from that of its values. There, for example, basic security was cut while it was being raised, and tax solutions looked a little different in profile. Let it now be noted in this Minutes. I would say, however, that I think it is good and, of course, positive — although it can be said that there are always problems and certainly also problems, that the tax burden at this point is more on low incomes — if the result is that the use of tobacco will be reduced, even though the tax revenue will be reduced. I will at least sign that I will then be able to get even less tax revenue if we are able to achieve results in society at all that will lead to a reduction in smoking overall. But this one's a tough one. It is good that the government will take the low incomes into account in another way, but the structure of the tax decisions this autumn is such that, for example, on the income tax side, 200 million will be reduced, which is precisely for the low and middle income. These tax reductions affect both employees, pensioners and also beneficiaries of benefits through the basic deduction, which is of course why it is important that the weighting goes there to those on low and medium incomes. Then there has been a debate here on improvements to social security, for example in tax law, so that is now a clear plus and many social benefits are being increased, and that is, of course, a positive thing overall. It is good in itself that Parliament is able to accept this unanimously, so there were no objections here, and the Finns of Peru were also involved in this in themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u119	Mr President! You can't stop smoking. You can't stop smoking. Many of us know personally or through acquaintances that when you get hooked on it it is really hard to get rid of it. Sometimes I read in a magazine that addiction is comparable to addiction caused by serious drugs in some people. So it's not quite simple. This morning I came to the Railway Market, and — I admit that I smoke cigarettes sometimes — one boy came to say that would you offer one cigarette, that there was no money, and there was no electrical tobacco, and there was no money and there was no money. He's the one I stayed a while to talk to. He said he's been trying to quit too, and now he's trying to use that electric cigarette. In that debate, we both agreed that it would be possible to think that the tax treatment of these tobacco substitutes would somehow be lower and lower than the price. For example, if you consider nicotine gum that many people use to get rid of nicotine addiction, it is quite expensive. This would be one way. Knowing this fact that it is not that simple, it has physical dependence, mental dependence, so that it can be freed from it, it should be supported by getting out. We have a lot of prevention in many areas and provide people with different kinds of help to deal with different problems. This would be one thing to think about. I, too, believe that if there is a reduction in smoking, then the tax revenue here is not the most problematic issue in any way. But I was startled in that situation by this young man, and I thought in my mind that, well, we have not been able to help him here in Parliament if tobacco is wickedly expensive and compensation products are even more expensive. This is the kind of thing that needs to be addressed now, and it is not just a matter of principle that you disapprove of smoking, because there is just so much of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u120	Mr President! I cannot refrain from commenting on that speech by Mr Viitane. He got into his favorite subject of last season's reprimand. The situation is that the distribution of income by the measure of equality, the Gini coefficient, has been a direct line for the past ten years roughly. Revenue differentials last increased significantly during Prime Minister Lipponen's reign in the late 1990s. As I recall, he was a social democrat. And since then, I have to say, it hasn't happened like this. In general, income differences in the Nordic countries are very low internationally.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u121	Madam President! When you want more tax revenue, it is always very easy to increase these taxes, such as the tobacco tax. Personally, I do not believe that tax revenue will change terribly, but rather I believe that the import of snuff from Haparanta will increase and the import of nicotine from Estonia will also increase. In Tallinn there is a veritable nicotine neo-caboom. Non-smoking nicotine juice is sold all over Tallinn at sales points on weekdays as well as at R-kiosks. In addition, it can be obtained from service stations and e.g. e-cigarettes. In other words, I think that this consumption will then be passed on to these snuff products, which are imported both from Estonia and from Haparanta on the Swedish side.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u122	Mr President! I do not believe that it is necessary to have this debate on tax solutions across the board and across history in this context. It should be noted, however, that, for example, during this period, to which I referred, this profile seems to be very different, so that when we look at both the tax solutions, which are clearly focused on low and middle incomes, and the increase in these benefits and so forth, then we will end up with what I think is important and good, and also, according to the calculations of the Ministry of Finance, 70% of the people will, however, have an increase in their income, earnings. What is important is that it is then focused on low and middle incomes. This is certainly a good thing for all of us, at least for most of us. But this is really the tobacco tax we are talking about here. Now we hope that the risks presented here will not be realised. And, as I said in that presentation, we have some information about these previous increases, which have been made annually here for a long time now, and they have not been directly realised here on the passenger import side. But since these threats are there, no one disputes it, it is important that the government also follows this development closely, and that is also one of the reasons why this comes into force gradually, the fact that it can also be monitored all the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u123	Madam President! After all, in raising the tobacco tax directly, a gift is thrown back to Estonia in the small amount it adds to its imports, and then a more wealthy smoker is beaten with a stick. There's not gonna be much other difference.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u126	Madam President! It is indeed a good thing to point out — just as Mr Juuso pointed out — that if you move from smoking to snooping, Finland will be left without tax revenue. There is also a huge amount of work to be done on imports of snus at the Finnish borders, the border guards.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u127	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 7/2019 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u128	Mr President! This draft report, prepared by the Tax Section of the Committee on Finance, goes in rather short terms, i.e. unanimously we find this proposal appropriate and agree with it. In other words, this is about abolishing the law on the levy on oil waste as unnecessary, as the collection of the levy on oil waste is to be abolished as from 1 January 1920.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u129	The 17th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A debate on this issue will also be allowed on the 18th and 27th issues of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u130	Mr President! The next legislative initiatives under discussion on 13-23/2019 are the legislative initiatives of the Finnish Parliament Group and accompanying the alternative budget to be published tomorrow. In a certain sense, these legislative initiatives form only a small part of the entire alternative budget for Finns, which includes a great deal of budget changes and proposals for law-making. The debate on the alternative budget as a whole will take place in plenary next week, but we now have the opportunity to examine these basic Finnish initiatives in more detail. The guiding principle of these legislative initiatives is that the Finnish state exists for Finns and that it must always take care of Finns primarily with its tax assets and other resources. As the proportion of working and tax-paying citizens in relation to others is decreasing due to ageing, low birth rates and poor immigration, money needs to be more focused on the relevant areas. In the opinion of the Finns Party, these include Finns with disabilities, the elderly, families with children, the sick and the disabled. Immigration has created a growing and expanding cost circle for both the public and private sectors. Integration policy is a very illustrative example. The more immigration there is, the more integration costs and bureaucracy. Integration should above all be adaptable to Finnish society, not emphasising differences or even strengthening them. The True Finns suggest that the law on the promotion of integration is repealed. Integration activities include all kinds of activities from the employment service and education in culture and language to gender education. The integration practice used in Finland, highlighting the role of organisations and various projects and projects, has meant that integration actors can in practice decide and measure how integration has been successful. This is neither objective nor beneficial for the whole. Of course, the simplest measure of success in integration is the employment of those undergoing integration. The data and figures are available to support decision-making. For example, in 2016, only about five per cent of those with integration training had entered the labour market three months after the completion of integration training. So our integration policy has failed. It should also be noted that the employment rate also gives a too rosy picture, as a large proportion of immigrants' jobs are so-called immigrant help jobs. These would not exist without immigrants. I am thinking, for example, of interpreting jobs, different teaching tasks and the work of multicultural coordinators. Various new tasks and job descriptions have been created around the migration business. The poor integration policy at the expense of taxpayers must be stopped immediately, and people must move on to their own self-repaired and self-repaired reintegration into the host society and their own activity. It is the best and right integration policy. With this bill we also propose that Article 12a of the Social Welfare Act be repealed. The article provides that the Social Insurance Institution shall reimburse the costs incurred by the municipality and the joint municipal authority through state resources when, in urgent cases, a foreigner seeking international protection whose reception services have ceased has been provided with food, medicines or temporary housing services. The Finns believe that it is not the task of Finnish taxpayers to pay for the services of illegal residents, but that those who have received a negative asylum decision should be removed without delay, immediately after the decision has been taken. To ensure their removal from the country, the Finns have suggested that those who are illegally resident should be detained before returning, rather than being allowed to move freely in our country and even use municipal services. Immigration is often defended by talking about foreign specialists, but most of the people who come here are far from the top international names of their own professions. Mr President! A temporary law on the withholding tax of foreign employees was created in Finland. Under the law, companies are supported to hire foreign workers, and the law promotes the payment of better wages to a higher-wage employee from abroad, i.e., to employees in practice in management, than to a comparable employee from Finland, or at least saves on salary costs. This law supports foreign employees with the possibility to apply for withholding taxation instead of income tax. This procedure was once intended to attract foreign top experts and investments in Finland. Now the Rinte Government is making this corporate aid permanent and the Finns of Finland would be ready to give up this corporate aid. In practice, employees benefit from this law only at a very high level of pay, and the law can be interpreted as corporate aid, as it affects those companies that have both the desire and the financial capacity to hire foreign workers for management tasks. The impact of the Act on investments and the willingness of foreign experts to come to work in Finland is likely to be limited. The law on withholding tax for foreign employees is problematic from the point of view of the principle of equality, as the law places Finnish employees in an unequal position vis-à-vis foreign workers. In fact, the True Finns argue that the law on withholding tax for foreign employees is repealed. Mr President! The Finns of Peru are proposing a reduction in the taxation of pensions. We want to improve the position of pensioners through taxation. By reducing taxation, the benefits go to pensioners with certainty, where the increase in the pension can at worst reduce other benefits or benefits. Increases in pensions may also be reduced due to taxation on them, which is why it is essential that the tax burden on pensions should be reduced. In Finland, the taxation of pension income is already higher than the taxation of labour income in very moderate pensions. To the extent that the taxation of pensions exceeds the tax level on labour income, tax harmonisation is required. In order to achieve this, the bill proposes that the deduction in municipal taxation of pension income be determined in the same way as the deduction in municipal taxation of earned income, thereby reducing the taxation of pensioners to the same level as those receiving earned income. As the population ages, attention must also be paid to the situation of family carers. The need for informal care will increase in the future. It is estimated that informal care will save more than EUR 2 billion per year in municipal care expenditure. Expenditure on social and health services for people over 70 would be double without family carers. In view of the importance of informal care, it is remarkable that the Income Tax Act does not provide for the taxation of the allowance for informal care, but that the allowance for informal care is regarded as earned income. Thus, in this bill, the Finns of Finland propose that a new section be added to the Income Tax Act on the basis of which the allowance to be paid to a carer is determined to be exempt from tax from the beginning of 2020. As far as we are concerned, income tax on informal care support is a relic of the past. It would be economically and humanly valuable for society to maintain interest in informal care and to improve the conditions for informal care. Mr President! The imposition of inheritance taxes creates unfair and unreasonable situations. The inheritance tax is paid after the death of the person, but the property is often not taken over by the heir, since the widow has the right to hold the common home of the spouses. When the widow collects the spouse, it is often paid after the widow’s deduction, even if the property is a common property, such as a common dwelling. Sometimes the heir may have to liquidate his property, take debt, or in the worst case, even give up the inheritance. In the opinion of the Finns Party, taxation needs reform to improve the status of the widow and children and to calm the duration of the widow’s tenure from taxation. The payment of the tax is proposed to be carried over in such a way that the tax is paid for residence after the death of both spouses or when the property is otherwise transferred to the recipient’s free control. — Is it true, President, that I am allowed to finish this, even though the clock is blinking here on the board, because I am presenting it all at once? [Second Vice-PresidentJuhoEerola :This had been agreed that this would lead to the end of the full
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, as my predecessor said on this chair a moment ago, we will now also allow a debate on points 18 to 27 of the order of business, of which Mr Tavio also spoke in his presentation. In other words, all the speeches can be dealt with at this point, and then there is no need to speak about them at a later stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u136	Mr President! There are rarely so many good legislative initiatives on the table one night, and I am happy to comment on a number of them. Now, first of all, to this first point of law initiative on the abolition of the law on withholding tax on foreign employees. This reminds me of the time when Finland was at the top of Nokia's success, a light-class banana state, when there was a lot of discussion that laws were also enacted according to Nokia's wishes and requirements, and, in my opinion, two laws were slightly enacted. One of those laws was what it was supposed to get Nokia’s well-paid leaders to move to Finland and pay taxes here. I don't know if this has happened. The second was this e-mail law, which Nokia himself has never used — although later some Finnish public sector actors did. Now, if this law were repealed, it would at least be a good sign for the weakness of the legislation of this time. The current law is, in a certain way, business support and it is quite unwarranted and, on the basis of the principle of equality, quite questionable in other ways. The abolition of this would improve our tax base and increase the revenue generation of the state by an estimated EUR 16 million. This is one of the plus-brand sources of income in our alternative budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u137	Mr President! This alternative budget debate offers one further opportunity to discuss these budgetary issues and is, in that sense, fresh. Of course, what is perhaps of the greatest interest in these opposition proposals is what is the financial content of these, and that is something we do not know yet. Generally speaking, these are quite an increase in expenditure as a whole. But I could comment on these tax initiatives. The increase in the VAT threshold is coming — it is likely to be postponed for EU reasons until the beginning of 2021, because the directive requires its adoption in the EU Commission. According to the Government Programme, the border is rising from EUR 10,000 to EUR 15,000. It is a small step forward in this regard. Then I would like to say that we have a proposal to amend the Income Tax Act, which takes the low incomes into account, for example, as a result of these increases in excise duty. The taxation of low incomes will be reduced by EUR 200 million from next year. This applies to the lowest-income earners, pensioners and beneficiaries of benefit income. Then one might say from that withholding tax on the employee from abroad that it has undeniably been a constitutional issue each time. Of course, it clearly deserves such an assessment of equality, and that is why it has so far been laid down in time. Now the government proposes that it be permanent. We'll see if it's going to be permanent. The main problem is that we must have these top foreign experts today too. This was originally called Lex Nokia, but it is still necessary. The taxation of our highest earnings is so tight, unfortunately it is not possible to get these experts in this country other than in this way. And now all you have to do is swallow it, even if it's not easy for anyone. This is actually at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u138	Mr President! Indeed, we are dealing with legislative initiatives relating to the alternative budget for Finns — a handsome package of extremely important issues. They form a whole, just as alternative budgets always form a whole. Of course, they also lose little ground, up to Parliament's decision on individual laws here, as has already been done today with regard to the Child Welfare Act. It does not quite meet our objectives, but this is how it works. This is quite a new procedure for dealing with the alternative budgets of opposition groups in this way. However, it is very good that this is happening and that an alternative policy is being adopted. Mr President! I would first like to say to Mr Kiviranta that there will be a reduction of EUR 200 million in income tax, that is true, but in view of the increase in fuel tax, the large increases in municipal tax, which are taking place, and then, of course, if there is an increase in social security contributions, then there will not be enough money for the average wage and salary earners today, for example, this month. So this is what happens when it comes to government policy. The talk of a 70% share of people who would receive tax reductions will not even take place next year, not to mention next year. Mr President! There are so many important things in this alternative budget. I'm just going to bring up some. The Government Programme says that informal care is being developed. That's all they say about family care. However, when the debate takes place in this Chamber, informal care receives enormous support and appreciation, but there is no specific improvement procedure for the government's measures for this parliamentary term. That is why it is extremely important that the alternative budget of the Finns-based is concretely set out what should be done with regard to home care as a matter of urgency with regard to taxation, and then with regard to the level of... And certainly we should also improve things that are not on the table here, namely the status of carers, holidays and the like. This is an extremely important issue and it is worth listing. The second point is the taxation of pensioners, which has been mentioned in this Chamber for as long as I have been here, and it has always remained, for more than 30 years. It is a fact that pensioners pay a higher total tax on the same result than employees. That's what we're doing right there. Thirdly, and perhaps now, lastly, I will take the reimbursement of medical expenses. We know that a decision was taken during the last period which tightened the payment of pharmaceutical costs to sick people. It was a very painful decision. I admit that it was one of the most painful decisions that was taken in the last period, but when the state economy was in an extremely tight state, in the spring of 2015, there were many decisions that had to be made. That too was involved in those decisions, and unfortunately it was done. Now that the situation has been eased, I really wonder that the centre, for example, is not prepared to correct this mistake — or say this measure, which was last taken, whether it was a mistake or not — which, however, was generally directed at low-income, sick people, of whom we must take special care. The True Finns are making a correction, and that is very important. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u139	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Tavio, for presenting all these initiatives. I myself will focus on the issue of inheritance taxation. I myself have been doing this for a long time, and it is one of the subjects that I find very important. It targets almost every one of us in one way or another in our lives. We are heirs or heirs, at least in any case. Last autumn we had a lot of discussions on inheritance tax. We had this same bill back then, and it received a lot of praise but not a lot of votes in the vote — it is quite interesting. Inheritance taxation is emotional, and if you think that you just want to raise money, or you are jealous, and you don’t care about people’s financial distress, then you don’t see any problem with inheritance taxation — you just think that someone who has money is getting money, so it’s probably right that you pay tax. There were also arguments in the debate on inheritance taxes that all financial transactions are taxed, but it is good to note that inheritance tax differs from the normal tax situation of people when someone close to them dies, and it is also the case that there are very heavy moments at hand and the heavy stages of life and the big thing has ended, for example, the death of their spouse, may even be their own child. In these situations, if you have children and a widow, they often have to wonder whether you can keep the home of your spouse, whether you can keep it, whether you have to sell it, take out a loan so that you can even pay the inheritance tax. Then there is a belief that the inheritance tax is always on the wealthy in particular. That's not true. Last autumn I brought up the educational material presented by Juha Koponen, the leading lawyer of the Finnish Taxpayer Federation in 2017, according to which inheritance tax is mostly directed at middle incomes. For example, with an inheritance value of up to EUR 200,000 — i.e. a typical owner-occupied dwelling and a low-cost cottage — up to 94 % — 94 % — of those paying inheritance tax are ordinary middle-class people. So who is this targeting again? It emerged from these discussions that the Social Democrats, who have been here for the family and for a small person today, then a tax expert — at least that is the title the media was calling him here — said, as a representative of the SDP: ‘Inheritance and gift tax the better tax on the market economy. It is not about work; it is about undeserved income.” The Harakka stated that it was a ‘fair and economicboosting tax’. The Harakka also said that the Social Democrats do not want a regulated society. Personally, I do not see any sign of a regulated society that, for example, a middle-income person inherits an apartment owned jointly by the spouses, if there are no children, or if there are children, that the children collect half the dwelling and then we wonder where the taxes are paid. I don't know if anyone thinks it's a regulated society, yeah. The apartment is also often saved, and it is, with common labor earnings, so that it has no undeserved income in that sense, the money from any part of heaven has not fallen. For this reason, the Finnish People's Parliamentary Group wondered what solutions we could find to this acute situation, which I often see at work just at the apartment. Since we thought that there was no possibility of abolishing the entire inheritance tax at once, which would of course be an ideal situation — but it must also be said that society needs money, and at least this is not immediately possible with these tools — we started to remove the most unfair points. In other words, if a spouse and children live in a common home and the children are heirs and inherit an apartment, it will not be taxed until the widow’s right to rule ceases so that it is freely available. Now the taxes are paid, but the apartment is not available. There are situations, as Mr. Tavio said in that regard, that we really cannot afford to accept an inheritance when you cannot even pay the inheritance tax, or the widow will be forced to pick up from its small funds where it comes from. These deductions, which are contained in the inheritance cycle, are not always enough to make it a zero-tax rate for a zero-euro tax. Then another situation is that if the spouse inherits the dwelling, that dwelling is not counted in the calculation of inheritance tax. These are very good concrete proposals, which indeed came across the board last autumn to applaud the fact that it is good and fair and certainly would not cost much, but that button on the vote did not really hit it on our bill. I hope you hit me now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u140	Mr President! Mr Tavio has presented a number of good legislative initiatives here, but I will now focus on one of them, and this is the tax exemption for informal care. In-house care is a topic that is often spoken of, valued and desired, but nothing concrete has been done so far. This Ville. The bill presented by Tavio would now be the first concrete measure of this kind, which we, as a society, would demonstrate that we appreciate this originality and understand its social significance. I would like to draw an example here of the support for informal care. This has now been divided into four levels and can reach a maximum of EUR 957 58 cents per month, and is defined as being entitled to family care where the ‘required person’srequirementand special arrangements aroundthe clock andrequires assistance also in medicalrequirements,such as the care ofdialysed treatment’. And‘aid is always an alternative to long-term hospital and institutional care or From experience, I know that the costs of hospital care go from EUR 500 to EUR 1000 per day. And now that we are granting a family carer a little less than EUR 1,000 for that month’s work and 24 - day supervision, it is a small amount of money compared to what it would cost us as a society if this person were there to be cared for in the hospital. Secondly, for example, I will take this group 3, where it is EUR 550 per month, and it is in line with enhanced service housing. Enhanced service housing currently costs about 100 euros a day, that is, 3000 euros a month, so that it is a huge saving for society that some family carer takes care of this. Yes, I think that it should certainly be duty-free, and I hope that the government parties will also vote in favour of this particular bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u141	Mr President! The radio is the radio of the Parliament, the radio of the entire people. The Finnish Broadcasting Company provides information to all Finns around the clock from Hanko to Utsjoki. True Finns want to cut, not by a little, but by nearly a fifth, from the funding of the Finnish Broadcasting Company next year. I am appalled by this initiative by the Finns of Peru. [Leena Sea interlude] Mr President! True Finns have been making a lot of noise about freedom of speech. From this presentation we can see how double standards are at stake. True Finns seem to have a strong desire to undermine Finnish, recognised freedom of the press in the world, and to focus the media industry even more on the hands of fewer and fewer actors.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u144	All right, let's go. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, — There is a willingness to go to the debate, but now that I look at this list of speakers, there are mainly representatives from Peruvian Finns. I'm sure you'll be able to answer on speaker duty.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u145	Mr President! I will now reply to Mr Köntä on this point. However, if the YLE still had EUR 432112000 available next year, it would certainly still have some kind of news broadcast, which is not exactly the drama at issue. Of course, the brand is popular when you have to pay. But the argument that regional action would end in this operation — that depends on how Yle would handle this operation in an operational way. For example, now that YLE is broadcasting from abroad, often even in dangerous crisis scenes in the world there is a journalist filming YLE in his hand, but when something happens in Finland, it is no longer. You don't get live video from the provinces, you get it from abroad. For example, would it be possible to buy that foreign programme from an international news company that could provide high-quality material quickly and cheaply, and not use these small tax money from the Finnish people to run around the world? In this fifth cut, Yle's budget would be about a considerable increase in purchasing power for Finnish employees, because the biggest payment category of the public service tax is available very quickly and, of course, in two-person households it will double the share of the Yle tax, which would quickly increase purchasing power easily — not, of course, huge sums, but still some amount. These are the arguments. Broadcasting as such is to some extent a necessary function. In a certain way, it offers counterweight to commercial media, including this idea of freedom of expression, which may be thought that if a point of view does not get out in commercial media, it will get out on the YLE. But then, on the other hand, the Finnish Broadcasting Company, for example, has shown little equality in the treatment of different parties. I do not remember, for example, that during the last period of the topical programmes, the largest opposition party has been ignored many times — yes, there were social democrats in the current programmes — but now there have been many times that there are no basic Finns in those programmes. So that freedom of expression for Yle is not so perfect. We are always quick to criticise, for example, the countries of Eastern Europe for freedom of expression and broadcasting, but we do not have all the clean papers in Finland either.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u146	Mr President! There are a number of legal initiatives taken by the Finns, for example in connection with informal care. Finally, it should be noted that the work of a family carer is important and should also be taken into account in taxation. True Finns are willing to work for it, but apparently the government is not prepared to work for it. Even now it is extremely embarrassing that we have in the Chamber at the moment... We have 200 seats here, and at the moment there are two representatives of the government parties — only two.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u149	Mr President! Dear Finnish family carers, we all know in this Chamber what valuable work you are doing and with how little nominal support you are in society's huge... So words are not enough to tell us the value of that work. You're saving resources in huge amounts. We are talking about savings in billions of dollars in money, which is why family care should be supported and developed in the future by all possible means. It must continue to be a viable and human option instead of expensive and cold institutional care. There are threats that the current social and health sector will not be able to respond to the perversion of the constantly evolving dependency ratio and to the ever-increasing elderly population of the future and to the increase in the need for this service. We currently have about 46,000 family carers who take care of some 48,000 people to take care of. 80% of family carers tend their loved ones in a binding manner almost 24 hours a day, and 57% of those treated would be customers of intensive home care and service housing if they did not have the family carer. This already tells us how big it is, and yet family carers do not enjoy the interests of a normal worker in their work — let alone the appreciation they deserve. For this reason, the bill on the tax exemption for carers is a small but important step towards developing informal care and valuing valuable work and gives positive impetus to those who intend to work in informal care. I therefore warmly support the bill put forward by Ville Tavio and hope that everyone in this Chamber will find the same solution. Now is the place when there has been talk in this Chamber about how hearts should beat and how we should be warm — now is the place. True Finns look up at family carers. I hope that the government will not look down when this bill comes in for discussion and decision in this Chamber. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u150	Mr President! However, the fact that all these issues have been discussed many times before in this Chamber does not mean that there is any innovation in them. And, of course, by Christmas everyone will go to the cemetery of initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u153	Mr President! The representative, Mr Tavio, presented excellent legislative proposals from the Finns of Finland, which will be put to the vote and which will hopefully be supported. I will take up some of them in my speech. Act on the amendment of value added tax: Entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs have a huge impact on Finland’s economy and employment. It must also be borne in mind that even large companies have not been large in the first place, but have grown with work and time and have often started to move very small. The raising of the VAT threshold would make it easier for many small entrepreneurs and for those who are in the early stages of their life cycle — possibly large ones — to be employed. The threshold for starting a business would be lowered. The increase in the VAT threshold would also reduce the shadow economy. Profitability and employment opportunities would improve, especially for enterprises operating in the service sector. True Finns have long flagged for blue and white entrepreneurship and tried to bring relief to the everyday lives of entrepreneurs. We should have a lot of entrepreneurs if we really want jobs to be created. They don't come out of nothing. There must also be a framework for entrepreneurship, which would result in job creation. Raising the value-added business threshold from EUR 10000 to EUR 20000 and raising the ceiling of the so-called relief area from EUR 30000 to EUR 40000 would be measures likely to improve the situation of small businesses, and we have more than 90% of our businesses. Mr President! Pensioner poverty is a major problem in our country. In addition to small pensions, the key problem is the continuing increase in cost of living. Food, electricity, medicines and housing costs do not pardon low-income pensioners. At this rate, a larger proportion of pensioners will find themselves in difficulties and pensioner poverty will increase even more if we do not soon start to find rational solutions to the problems. The increase in the number of payment default labels is particularly rapid for pensioners, which is a clear signal of serious economic problems. Comprehensive measures are needed to eliminate pensioner poverty. In addition to curbing compulsory everyday spending, we can influence the situation of pensioners by means of fiscal measures. Even at present, lower taxes are paid on the smallest pensions than on labour income, but when taxes on pensions exceed the level of taxation on labour income, the situation is different. In this bill, what the Finns of Finland propose, it is proposed that the deduction of municipal taxation's pension income should be determined in the same way as the deduction of municipal taxation's earned income. This would have a very positive impact on the purchasing power of pensioners. And, Mr President, on the important issue of family care: The importance of informal care is emphasised by the ageing of the population. There are major challenges facing institutional and home care, and there has been a great deal of public debate on these issues over the past year. Given the current state of care for the elderly and the sick, I see investing in informal care as a very sensible solution. The family carer is a family member or otherwise close person who has entered into a family care contract with the municipality. The Act on support for informal care came into force in 2006. Support for informal care is an entity consisting of the care fee paid to the care provider for the necessary services, services supporting the care function of the carer and free of charge. The importance of informal care is emphasised by the reduction of institutional care. From the point of view of care, informal care is a human form of care, but for a caregiver caring for a loved one, nursing work is often demanding and burdensome and reduces the chances of obtaining other incomes. This should provide better compensation for family carers. Family care saves a considerable amount of money for society, billions — just as Mr Peltokangas said — so, in proportion to this, it would be justified to make the financial situation of family carers easier by means of taxation and to turn the support for informal care duty-free. This is what the Finns have already said many times before, and now the bill comes again. I am proud of my party's line of support for family carers in their important work and this bill. Our society desperately needs family carers in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u154	Mr President! A few thoughts about this YLE. I spent eight years on the General Radio Board and all the time on the Bureau, and I claim that I know a little about the house on that basis, and I am also firmly convinced that the house has become a rather bloated fortress with employees and is an activity that such a public service company does not have to offer today. In other words, there are many channels on both sides that would not necessarily be necessary because they are better suited to private commercial activities, i.e. advertising. These could significantly reduce activities and thus save costs and thereby reduce the proportion of the public service tax, the burden. There is no need to buy all kinds of American films for the YLE, to be sent. And then, on the other hand, even on that side of the sound radio, there is no need for the channels there today, because they are available on the commercial side. In this respect, Mr Könttä's speeches on freedom of expression are far-fetched, and they are not at all true. There's no need to go to the news. It is of course important on that side that freedom of expression and fairness and justice are realised, and there is room for hope, but it is not the same as pulling some freedom of expression to a lesser extent by thinning the volume of YLE's activities as we put it. Here, in our initiative, nothing is said about reducing freedom of speech or news or regional activity — nothing at all about it. On the contrary, in Central Finland, for example, we should return to regional broadcasts in Central Finland and leave it to Etelä-Savo. This would be wise and justified, but it is now the case that these regions have been brought together. Mr President! Here we also have a proposal on these capital incomes from foundations and large associations, which we would like, for example, to be covered by the 15% capital tax rate. For example, we do have foundations close to the trade union movement and close to some of the old parties, which enjoy tax exemption quite without justification and even some of them compete with private activities so that they gain a significant advantage in terms of their activities and their economies, and then, in some cases, support political action or other things for which there is no justification today. In other words, equality and fairness are the starting point in this respect for taxing these too. We do not propose the kind of Foundation taxation that would apply to, for example, foundations or some other universities, especially small ones, we do not want to be taxed, but there is a place where tax revenue could be obtained. That increase in the VAT threshold was already here in several speeches. It would certainly have a dynamic effect, perhaps even more than it would have in terms of tax revenue, and employment in particular would be improved. For example, the government is now investing in this pay subsidy, which has been consulted by experts in the Committee on Finance, and there is actually nothing more than government officials who are speaking on behalf of the government and who defend it or see it as positive. It's a string push that doesn't produce permanent jobs. At its worst, the wage subsidy will provide short-term jobs that will displace the permanent worker. In this respect, the method is not very effective. It is suitable for disabled people and is quite in place on that side, but on a scale that the government may describe, it will not be a justified model. The increase in the VAT threshold is much more effective and serves private, productive activities in particular, and that is where we need jobs, because it actually increases this national income and thus increases tax revenues and employment, and the effects are only positive.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u155	Mr President! I'm on Yle's board of directors, and, for some reason, I don't know, the number really stuck in my mind, when Mr Könttä said that 89% trust news, you know, it's 84 percent. I went all the way out here on the news to check it out. I remember well when this was presented to us on Yle's Board of Directors and I said that I would not consider it a good figure, because it has been more than 90% in pine years. In view of the fact that 16% does not trust, and at least we are on a channel paid by taxpayers, I would see that this is also a worrying signal. But let it be corrected that 84 percent of Yle’s news coverage is estimated to be very or rather reliable, 82 radio news and 81 STT — and I can’t find your 89 percent here. Then I would like to point out that throughout society we have had to look at activities, talk about efficiency, and it is a good thing in a certain way to eliminate unnecessary activities. Now, if I think of many programs, why do two people have to be there? Two people are interviewing each other, and it's good to remember that guest sometimes to ask him what he thinks — a little bit so much. There are good programs, but I think it would be a good idea to screen things like this. As has been pointed out here, we have not said what needs to be done to make these improvements. I think this is a very good proposal. Everything must be under review, it cannot be that we have certain areas. Unfortunately, the second has been, for example, asylum seekers' processes, i.e. there are still about half of the cases dealt with by administrative courts in foreign matters — and so there is now more money. It cannot be that, for example, Yle or something of this kind is like a bottomless cashier, that money must always be found there, even if bankruptcy is imminent. With this I would like to raise the debate that there is no sacred cow that cannot look at its activities, and there is no need for it to be outraged in any way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u156	Mr President! First of all, two more comments on this issue of the High: First of all, the fact that these reliability figures apply to the news in general, but when the study bit the news a little bit, that which news is trusted, it was found that there is confidence in sports news rather than in political news. So we're counting on being able to tell us which team won the hockey game, with what readings. Well, I don't think anyone suspects that. But in politics, action and personal preferences are beginning to weigh more heavily on that news. Secondly, what cuts are being made in Yle is not a journalistic decision in itself, but the question is what activities are being carried out, what programmes are being produced, there is no need to intervene in the content. In other words, it is one of the things the state as the owner can control in Yle if it wishes, that if Yle were cut, where the cuts are to be made, whether it is a provincial radio or someone else. With regard to these other legislative initiatives, I shall now go over some of the comments I have made about them myself and why I consider them important and important. I will go over these mainly in the order in which they are on the agenda. That is the first increase in the VAT threshold. I see it as important because it is important to invest in employment and domestic demand at a time like this, and that small businesses can operate more efficiently, that the threshold for entrepreneurship should be lower, could increase people's chances of self-employment and of generating domestic demand. In such a world of irregular employment, it is important to make self-employment as attractive as possible. It has already been said for many parliamentary years that this threshold should be raised, but it has happened almost as much as the vignette fee, which means that it has not been implemented. Then there is the bill on the tax moderation of pensioners in practice. I think that for the rest of you, when you've been out there, one of the most common questions is when a pensioner comes to ask me why I have to pay more taxes on my pensions than employees pay for their own income. Well, on this issue, in order to moderate taxation, there is a proposal from the Finns of Peru, which has a cost impact of EUR 50 million. But even if this is in principle a loss of tax revenue, it would, however, lead to more or less direct consumption as most of these tax reliefs and other reductions in payments to low incomes. Then there is this tax exemption for informal care, which has also been discussed for a long time, but nothing has happened to it. The True Finns, on the other hand, present it and invite others to join in in correcting this problem. The family carers are doing a valuable job. If the value of their work to society were to be calculated in money, it would not be easy to find the kind of money that would replace the work of family carers to care for their loved ones. It would now be reasonable for the income to be at least tax-free, the small income that is paid only by family carers who meet the criteria, far from all those who are in practice carers. Then there's the foundation tax. Nor do we believe that foundations should have the possibility of being a free passenger and of obtaining tax-free returns, but that the tax base should be extended in this respect and transferred to more important purposes, such as, for example, the refund of the 70 million child allowance that we have proposed here. Today there was a debate on a child-friendly society. Here is such a concrete hand-out for working families with children and, in a way, an incentive for a more balanced use of family leave and a faster return to work, while in a sense it would be more economical to offset the costs of day care, which will become a burden if you go to work. Then we have a bill to abolish, in practice, the amount allocated to the costs of undocumented health care. It is unacceptable for the rule of law to recognise, in principle, illegal residence as a form of residence and to provide society with a fixed sum of money to provide these people with services. That is an incentive for municipalities and public authorities not to do anything when they have money automatically to provide these services, even if they do not have the right to Finnish social security. And then a major reduction in the cost of integration, the repeal of the entire law promoting integration, a change of 200 million, which takes account of the realism that municipalities have 22 million contractual obligations that should be legally fulfilled, i.e. they would remain there, but the rest would be cut off. This would send out a clear signal that the current system is not working; it is carrying water into the well. In general, we should have immigrants who integrate independently and do not need services to do so. Yes, the minimum requirement is that when you move to a country, you can support yourself, work, live like a society and at least try to learn a language, although the Finnish language is not easy. There's still some way English can handle the sidelines when you're studying that Finnish. On the inheritance tax, which has been well described here by a number of representatives, in other words, the abolition of the inheritance tax in its entirety: The proceeds of gift tax and inheritance tax are 800 million. It would be quite a large sum to be removed as such, and it would be hard populism to present such a thing without being able to tell us what is being cut. But here we have the suggestion that inheritance taxes be justified, that is to correct the shortcomings that exist there, that we should not have to go into forced auctions in a short time to pay inheritance taxes, and that, in a way, a person would not have to go into such an unreasonable situation that he would have to take over inheritance taxes, would have to pay inheritance taxes for property that he would not actually be entitled to control. The last of these legal initiatives is the reimbursement of medicines. The situation that often comes when you walk in that election field is that people will say that I only have money for food or medicine, which one I will buy. In other words, returning the share of the reimbursement, even in the 50s, will seem quite significant in the income of many people on low incomes if they get it back for other consumption and get the medicines they need.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u157	Mr President! Mr Tavio has presented a number of good legislative initiatives today, and I will take a position here on two of them. The legislative initiative to repeal Article 12a of the Social Welfare Act is very good. Between 2015 and 2018, approximately 50,000 people applied for international protection in Finland. About 40% of them have received a negative decision on the application. This means, therefore, that we have a huge number of people in our society who have received negative asylum — with your tax money. Different authorities have expressed concern about the threat posed by harmful immigration, that is, in the national language of asylum tourism, to our internal security. I think it goes without saying that there should not be a fair 5 million in the threat of internal security, as the government has now stated. Let us be frank: every day there is a powerful message coming out of the deep ranks of the people as a snowball effect: even the euro should not be paid to a person who is illegally in the country. What is the opinion of the government, it will be seen later. Another bill, the bill to repeal the Act on the Promotion of Integration, is also excellent. The fact is that the current integration measures have brought little more than an absurd fall in society and taxpayers, whose own lives and living standards have been affected by the law on promoting integration, negatively, in all sectors of life — not least in terms of increased costs and tax increases, but also in terms of reduced security and loss of social trust. I'm sorry to hear that. We don't need money-eating laws if they don't work. Is it therefore time to try integration — or I suggest repatriation — instead of lazinessing? I very much support the legislative initiative put forward by Mr Tavio to repeal the Act on the Promotion of Integration, which I believe is the Hyysy Act. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u158	Mr President! Indeed, Tavio has presented the laws of the Finns, and I am also taking a few more positions here. Our inheritance tax is currently causing completely unreasonable situations for many Finns. When a loved one dies, it's a hard knock on any one of us. And that's not all. The inheritance tax will be paid after the death of the person, whether or not the property is taken over by the heir. Based on the widow’s right of control, the widow has the right to keep the spouses’ common home. When a widow inherits her spouse, the widow often has to pay after the widow’s deduction. This often leads to a situation where the heir is forced to sell property, to make debt, or even to give up the inheritance. In the event of succession, the legislation should take better account of the situation of the widow and the children to be collected. In addition to moderate inheritance taxation, efforts should be made, above all, to remove the grievances affecting the widow and children that have been raised on several occasions by Mr Meri. The duration of the widow's management should be reassured with regard to the payment of the tax and, despite the deduction of the tax on the breast heirs of minors, the levying of the tax should be postponed in accordance with the proposal of this bill, so that the tax is paid on living after the death of both spouses or when the property is otherwise transferred to the free control of the recipient. Mr President! Medicines: Medicines are expensive, and high prices are particularly bad for low-income people, many pensioners and the unemployed. When you are ill, the necessary medicine should be a fundamental right of Finns. Compared to many other countries, our medicine roofing system is moderate, but despite this many people have difficulty coping with their medical bills. It is not right for a person to have to compromise heavily, such as food, in order to get drugs. Unfortunately, this is commonplace for many people on low incomes today. It would therefore be very reasonable for low-income individuals to be reduced in the way proposed by the legislative initiative. And, Mr President, just a few more words about Yle: Of course, Yle's importance is very important. It has to be the people's radio, the people's TV. It's the people who pay for it. It's great that Yle shows sports competitions. As a sporty person, I think it is important that people with low incomes also have access to large international competitions, at least through television. Also for children Yle's doing a good show. But what about whether Yle is completely independent when it comes to political programmes, agendas, sometimes even news? Yle must remember that it must be impartial. Many citizens believe that this has not been the case in recent years, and this is something that Yle needs to pay attention to. It must be impartial for all citizens. And trying to struggle with pay-per-view channels. In recent years, Yle — I have noticed that — has forgotten a little about the elderly and the older people’s programs, and here Yle also needs to be alert. And very good is if Yle in the future would support Finnish entrepreneurship and Finnish programmes a lot in its programme offering. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u159	Mr President! In practice, I have inherited nothing but taxes in my life, so I know what it feels like to get quite a bill from a tax bear after a funeral, which makes a regular employee and a debtor’s purse quite a hole. Why should I pay for someone I care about dying? It seems like quite an idea when it happens. If I were to die now, my wife and children, my family, would be in considerable trouble precisely because of inheritance taxes. Isn't losing someone close enough for you to suffer? I understand that it is the government parties that have been behind the inheritance tax, and I find it disconcerting that there are no members of the government parties here at the moment when this matter is being dealt with — only one. I think it's very strange. I strongly believe that a solution for inheritance tax must be found that is appropriate for Finland. Of course, the best way to do that would be to abolish inheritance tax altogether, but at the very least it would have to be passed on to an income tax, which would make this situation much more reasonable.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u160	Mr President! Just a few words about that inheritance tax. There are a few representatives here who during the previous period were — in fact, with all those in the Chamber in the same government. I think the problem is that we should somehow solve how we get that income, perhaps by some other means. We all understand that those expenses must also be taken care of — I think the majority of those who are absent will also be able to support this idea in all the parties. I hope that we will find the innovative ways that Mr Kiviranta has called for before today put the day in the package. Just a few more words about this YLE. In my opinion, these arguments do not work now when you Finns speak of the fact that there has been considerable criticism of Yleisradio or that the software has been regarded as unsatisfactory. I do not think that the argument is good enough that ‘in my opinion,the vast majority of citizens ‘art’ have come to me with feedback’. We cannot argue with such arguments, but we must have research in the background, such as extensive Gallup samples. It is not enough to have received a lot of feedback from citizens on this issue. I say that we all have our own reference groups and that feedback may be very different. And as far as these investigations are concerned, I will remain behind these figures. 92% believe that YLE has succeeded in its public service mission. These are now based on this extensive international research that you can find on Google. And then, for example, the Committee on Transport and Communications was presented with this issue, and there were also representatives of the Finns of Finland. Well, in the middle of the google, too, that those readings by Mr. Sea are correct, they're just from a different study. They are from the studies of KAKS, the Foundation for the Development of the Municipal Industry, and there was indeed this chapter 84 when I used that chapter 89, which means that trust in Yle’s news activity has remained strong. Well, it was 89 or 84, so clear and the most important thing is to follow these trends, and that trend is still that general confidence in Yle is strong, unlike what is implied here. And according to Yle’s news review, this is indeed 89%. I think it's really, really hard. If we look at how well Yle achieves Finns and as if reaching a Finnish, then it is really hard, and a big part of it goes into this kind of news and topical activity. I do not comment on sports news, I do not know what news or poll it was about — perhaps the representative can open it himself. But if we look at this now, whether it is this study by the KAKS Foundation or this international study, then that 84 is good enough for me, I think it is a very hard figure. Of course, it is not possible to compare studies from previous years with different studies, but it is important that we always talk about the same studies and the same survey methods and methods.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u161	Mr President! A few more words about this inheritance tax. As an example of the Government's draft budget for 2017 for inheritance tax and gift tax, the expected tax revenue was reported to be 550 million, but in 2017 the amount rose to nearly 910 million euros. Hard sums from the point of view that inheritance tax is generally being torn several times over time from the taxed property. In the taxing of people’s hard work and hard - earned property, the state seems to be operating in a peri-socialistic way. These people are just ordinary people with whom... There was a talk here about the situation that if a representative dies, the family will be in trouble. In other words, an ordinary person who is not rich but has a house of his own and something torn out of his back over the years, this really hurts very strongly. Of course, tax relief has been sprinkled, but I do not think it is enough for the overall picture. The entire inheritance tax system is disproportionate to the majority of the heirs and, in the worst case scenario, it causes the debt to be taken or the inheritance to be waived. So we have to give up, young people do too, from our own birth home — we cannot keep it because we cannot afford it, we have a fall. This bill really is what moderates the daily lives of ordinary Finns, for example, when a spouse sleeps away. Mr Könttä, this is the innovation you are calling for. I hope that the Centre will also want to see such unfortunate cases as, for example, the case. When the spouse is asleep, the tax bear does not take care of the rest. It remains to be seen whether there is a heart in the center or not. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u162	Mr President! I would like to say a few words about this issue that has already been raised here, the cost of healthcare for illegal residents. Accommodations also cost a lot. In Pori, for example, we had emergency accommodation for illegal residents in June to August, which was three months. The service was used by six people, and the costs were 47,000 and rapes. So if we were to spend money in the same way, for example on family care, on care for the elderly, on child welfare, anywhere, we would have enough money. What we are channeling our money into and in what respect is important to me. It must be supported, for example, by this repeal of the Act on the Promotion of Integration. We'll use that money more efficiently here. It's not like we have to integrate in here. It's not just guided. I am in favour of repealing the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u163	Mr President! I would like to comment on the source of the research I mentioned earlier, i.e. it was a study by the Foundation for the Development of the Municipal Industry, KAKS, on media confidence. There was such a question as:‘Howreliableis it generallyto keeptheinformation tools and media in the following areas...? “, jastinol percentages. According to my calculations on sports, 78 per cent thought the media was very reliable or fairly reliable, but when we went to politics, confidence was only 49 per cent. ‘Neither’increased, and also the number of people who It is quite understandable in the sense that the news from abroad is well placed in the Finnish media. The President of the United States, if he happens to be a Republican, is usually reported worse than a President who is a Democrat. It in itself undermines the credibility of the international news of Finnish media. The news of politics is very dramatic and has led to the fact that, for example, a very large proportion of supporters of the Finns Party feel distrust of the media compared to supporters of many other parties. I have to ask why this is happening. How can these people feel distrustful of the media if the media treats them equally? The only conclusion is that the media does not treat them and the politicians they support equally, and that is why this distrust of the media is the reason. Yes, in this Chamber, it is precisely those aspects of our own electorate that are intended to be highlighted, because who would bring them, if not the Members of Parliament who voted for them?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u164	Mr President! It's interesting that the debate about this Yle-section turned from criticism from the center to this Yle-debate. Yle is an interesting topic to discuss. It is rather unusual in my opinion, as is the case in principle. I am in favour of a free market in general. Such a state-owned media company has its own problems precisely because it has grown so big. It is quite clear that Yle is the subject of some kind of licking-up for many politicians because, of course, politicians think that Yle's journalists would write positive stories about them when they defend these luxurious jobs and that institution. But it is questionable in my opinion when the Yle-tax is paid — possibly by its thirteen and a half euros a month — by a working person, even if he does not use Yle at all and does not want to use it. So it's forced-taxed for people, it just doesn't get to quit like Netflix. High tax pays $10 a month, whether you like it or not. And what's odd is that companies pay, which means if you're an entrepreneur, then you pay multiple Yle-taxes. That could be up to three tons for some very successful company. It should perhaps rather be seen as part of the public budget, and that is why it is problematic that it is linked in this way to that taxation. We would then be able to improve purchasing power again, of course, if taxes were to be reduced, that is clear. What was said, however, that this kind of reduction in Yle's budget would lead to some catastrophic state of freedom of speech is a rather weak argument, because there are not many other countries in Europe, although there are such large broadcasting channels, and it is not true that in other European countries there is something worse about freedom of expression than in Finland. The extent to which Yle is criticized: That criticism is quite often subjective, but there is a lot of criticism and, as has been said here, it is directed at that political journalism, not necessarily at that other. And if Yle is cut off, you have to remember that that news activity, especially political news, is only a small part of Yle's budget. In other words, it was not proposed here that this cut should be limited to that, but to the entire budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u165	Mr President! I am sorry that from the very beginning I was unable to participate in the debate. I am a little surprised that, while there are, however, rather significant parts of the opposition party's alternative budget here, this debate will only be attended by Mr Könttä, whom I thank for the fact that even one warrior from the government party has been able to listen to this debate here in the Chamber. I myself would have expected that there might well have been members of the Finance Committee from the government parties here to discuss such initiatives as these by the Finns of Finland. Personally, I have always tried to approach politics in such a way that things are good or less good or even bad, or they are acceptable or unsupportable, no matter who presents them. And today I have to say that the Finns have made good presentations from the point of view of our tax package. There is, for example, this issue of inheritance tax and gift tax, which was before Parliament during the last term, with the citizens' initiative, which, in fact, in my opinion got a little mistreated in Parliament. I myself got some hits on it at the time, for I have long been in favour of abolishing inheritance tax. In my opinion, a special decision was made that Parliament did not make a report on it at all. I understand that the abolition of one part of taxation by the citizens' initiative would have been challenging, but it would have been possible to make it possible, for example, to make Parliament's call for the government to take measures to abolish inheritance tax and then take measures, for example, to introduce a sales profit tax, which could remedy this situation, as has been the case in Sweden, for example. It would be fairer — as the Finns of Finland apply here — because when the inheritance is received, it does not necessarily give rise to liquidity, but at the time when the property is sold or the property is realised. In that sense, this initiative is excellent and worthy of support. I also welcome a number of initiatives by the Finns on taxation in general. The increase in the VAT threshold is a very welcome and sensible measure, as is the few comments they have made on our income tax law. Mr President! I'll be on that podium for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u168	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Heinos and Mr S.H.I.E.L.D. for your excellent contributions and for your support for these presentations by the Finns. And I must also thank Mr Köntä for being the only government representative here to discuss with us — and I would also like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u169	Now, Mr Könttä has the opportunity to thank him.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u170	Mr President! There are two points I would like to draw attention to: first to Yle and then perhaps to the second to thank you. Perhaps on this funding of Yle I would like to hear the views of the Finns. That funding has been agreed by Parliament, and you were involved in it, it has been agreed together, so how has this changed so quickly that now there will be a change in the funding that has been agreed by Parliament? It's like I'm a little surprised. At least the way I see it, Mr Tavio, is that we are here to represent our own voters. Not only do my constituents regard Yle as independent and important news media and service for both the people of Central Finland and for all Finns and the whole country, but according to these studies Yle is also appreciated. Among the top ten network brands is Yle Arena, the sixth is Yle, and the seventh is Yle's Living Archive. Well, it can't be so bad, can it? And when we talk about this in general, there will be new media, as has been said here, there will be the Internet, social media, yet according to studies, the least Finns trust in social media news — least of all, this is surprising. I would like to thank the Finns of Finland for these legal initiatives that you have taken in this future alternative budget of yours. I think it is a reflection of the responsibility you have with regard to the alternative budget and the shadow budget that you are going to make. And in that sense, of course, it would be nice to hear from Mr Kilvell or Mr Heinos whether the coalition believes that the government's budget laws are so good that you have not done them, or whether you are going to make any budget laws at all. Do you think that those government laws are so good that there is no need to propose a budget law? But thank you to the people of Peru for the very good workmanship and the very good conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u171	Mr President! I will answer that directly to the question that Mr Könttä was still asking. In other words, it is true that these issues have traditionally been agreed on by parliament, and at least I personally have no blame for the fact that parliamentary decision-making is not great, and it would appear to be in many areas in Finland. But that parliamentary decision does not mean that the parties do not have their own positions on these matters or their own objectives on matters that should not be said out loud, let alone drive in that parliamentary working party. This would lead to the fact that, if it was decided by parliament on the Yle budget, it would have been stricken and never changed again. And this cannot be the case, but the Finns of Finland are pushing for the reduction of the Yle tax, and if we are now remembering it, we have suggested it before, and we are consistently still of the opinion that it should be calculated and not considered as a holy cow that is not touched. Quite a bit of Yle has something that could probably be eliminated and which would also be managed by the free-market media, everything from, among other things, entertainment production — yes I'm sure you'll find something to cut from this half-billion-dollar budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u172	Mr President! The Coalition Party will make its own corresponding alternative budget — and it will do a good one — and we will present it in due course. However, there are, of course, slightly different ways of dealing with these alternative budgets as to whether any of its changes are to be made in the form of specific legislative initiatives. That's what you do sometimes, and some people don't. The Social Democrats did a lot of them last year, as I recall. We decided that we would not make every change that is there, a bill that would be dealt with separately in this Chamber. We also made budget initiatives around the group's alternative budget very sparingly. We raised a few points which we wanted to raise at that point. But that does not mean, Mr Könttä, that there is not much else in our alternative budget, for example, the money from the therapy guarantee that is so much needed at the moment, and you, Mr Könttä, will be able to vote on the money from the therapy guarantee, whether it will be used by young people next year or not. I know that you are a little nervous, perhaps rightly, when the impression has been given here that this Socialist-led government is doing the only possible economic policy, but you, Mr Könttä, will be surprised. It's not our only chance. We do not need to take on more debt and reverse debt to a new growth rate, or we do not need to tighten labour taxes or almost all other taxes. We have opportunities, and Mr Könttä, you will be surprised to see that the coalition presents its own responsible, socially just, work-friendly options.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-13-ps-63.u173	Mr President! This is still a problem with these legislative and budgetary initiatives. The alternative budget of the Finns Party has sought to ensure the legal integrity of matters for which there is a real need for a change of law, a legislative initiative and then, if it is a purely financial issue, a budget initiative has been put in place for all the most significant expenditure items that can be defined. Of course, there are also issues in the alternative budget for which it is not easy to define a certain amount of money for which to make a budget initiative, that is to say, those expressed in text. Then there is the question of improving the efficiency of Yle's operations and cutting the tax on Yle. The Finns have been quite consistent in this matter over time. At the time when we were in the government, we were in the parliamentary working group proposing to cut spending on Yle. We were left alone. We lost it. And once we have been in the opposition, we have had this item in all the alternative budgets so far. In 2018, it was a cut of 50 million, in 2019 it was a cut of 61.2 million, and now in 2020 it has been increased to 100 million, but the cut has been consistently displayed all along.
