ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-14-ps-18.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-14-ps-18.u2	Irade fru talman, Madam President! The amendment to section 30 of the Åland Self-Government Act has been left to rest during the previous parliamentary term. This has been done because the Autonomy Act is a so-called lex specialis, which can only be amended in the order in which the Constitution is laid down, with the consent of the province days of Åland. Now that the new parliamentary term has begun, the legal changes left to rest will come to life again. The change is only of a legal nature and takes into account the transfer of consumer advice tasks from the Local Register Office to the Competition and Consumer Authority in the Kingdom. [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-14-ps-18.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-14-ps-18.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-14-ps-18.u5	Mr President! Thank you for the introduction, Mr Löfström. This question, if I can see it correctly, will also be drawn up in such a way that this proposal is in itself a small technical change, but while there is also a broader overall reform at the same time, the question remains, of course, whether there is a need to move forward along the path of partial reforms or to pursue a more comprehensive approach to the definition of Åland's self-government status. This is why it is interesting that: In some cases, the Åland Islands is an excellent example of providing added value to the frozen or conflict-affected self-government regions within Europe, which form areas of crisis in terms of security. And if the case of Åland can be used to strengthen self-government as part of the areas of conflict between other countries, then the Åland affair in this respect is an exceptionally interesting and politically valuable issue to assess.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-14-ps-18.u6	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-14-ps-18.u7	Irade fru talman! Det andra vilande lagförslaget om ändring av Ålands självstyrelselag handlar om en ändring av det ekonomiska avräkningssystemet för Åland. Det är är en del av den stora självstyrelsevisionen som pågått de senaste åren under ledning av den parliamentariska komittén som leddes av president Tarja Halonen, och som föregicks av den så kallade Alec Aalto-rapporten. På grund av tidsbrist blev man inte under den förra mandatperioden färdig med hela självstyrelsevisionen. Man beslöt ändå att frikoppla de ekorska delarna effectsom man hade nått ett samförstånd kring dem och eftersom de också behövdes för att inte landskaps- och vårdreformen skulle strida mot Ålands självstyrelselag och således vara i strid med grundlagen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-14-ps-18.u8	Mr President! There are a lot of new MPs here, and for the rest of us, for the sake of the review: In 2013, the Ministry of Justice set up such a parliamentary study group to reform Åland's self-government legislation. I was personally part of this group last season, and we gave a committee report in summer 2017. As a member of the True Finns, I pointed out in my statements that in general, if there are changes in financing models, they have often served Åland in these examples. There was nothing in the Committee to suggest that the current funding would not enable Åland to carry out its tasks. In the view of the Finns of Finland, it is more about the fact that the current model has been perceived as unfair and that Åland should be allowed to keep all taxes and charges collected in Åland. That is our view. Åland's economy is not in poor shape, but rather the opposite. This is also supported by the fact that the province of Åland is debt-free — as Mr Adlercreutz exclaimed one day here when in my municipality of Hyvinkää we really owe EUR 100 million and have difficulties. In the Finns Party, we believe that the Finnish economy is a whole and that everyone should share the difficult and good times equally. This was our message from the committee. Then, however, when this social and health reform, the social welfare reform, last season, fell to the wall no matter how many times — and perhaps it is time to consider whether the current rural model was just going to continue as it is — the government then introduced a proposal to the Parliament because it changed the Åland financing model, and it was originally the idea, according to the government’s own proposals — these are reflected in this government’s proposal, which is the basis here — to compensate at a lower level for the costs that the social reform would have incurred for Åland, this EUR 3 million. Well, then it became clear from these documents, which have also been discussed publicly in February of this year that Åland did not agree to this. In fact, the Government was apparently forced — at least according to the statements of some ministers — to take the matter forward, because they wanted to take the matter forward, had to agree to this proposal from Åland. I'll take a quote from the General Session of the Government. On 6 February of this year, Minister Terho’s contribution begins with the following: ‘The Government’s proposal to amendthe AHN selfgovernment law is based on the preparation of a comprehensive reform, in addition to the legal and social needs related to the reform of the health and social fabric,the financing questions ofthe Åland Islands ‘ —and the following statement —’even if such a solution would not be acceptable. The implementation of the reform of the social In other words, this government proposal, which we now have, will be dealt with in the constitutional order, and that is why this is the second time in this new Parliament. This was left to rest. This has been the idea of solving the issue of social security. Sote's down. There is no need for this increase in funding at the moment and, as Mrs Kanerva, for example, said very well, this is behind this overall reform in which I myself have been sitting. It would be appropriate to carry out this overall reform. There have been some speeches here that there was a great deal of consensus about these statements, and at least the Finns of Peru have very strongly pointed out that everyone shares good and bad times and there are no special areas here that are always guaranteed that they have such times, that they are in debt and that they are used to certain levels of service. This is now a clear change in the financial base, precisely because of this last period of social reform, and I hope, in fact, that, first of all, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as the Committee on Budgets, will reject this proposal as unnecessary and, second, that this overall reform should be carried out and that all the parts should be heard in peace. This was done precisely according to the reports of the ministers at the time in order to push forward the reform of social security. So to speak, it was agreed that: Åland will not accept a lower refund. I wouldn't mind using that blackmail word in this context, but there's not much missing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-14-ps-18.u9	Irade fru talman! Ledamot Meris åsikt i de arv frågorna är sedan längekänd. Tre stycken commentarer för att lite öppna upp det som ledamot Meri tog upp: För det första att Åland skulle vara skuldfritt. Det stämmer bra att landskapet Åland är skuldfritt. Men på Åland finns det också 16 kommuner — som ledamot Meri känner till —och de är inte skuldfria utan de har också momma skuldsättningsgrad som till exempel Hyvinge eller andra kommuner i landet. Om du till exempel Jämför Mariehamn med Hyvinge så är skuldsättningsgraden ungefär på momma nivå. Så det går inte att säga att Åland är skuldfritt även om man på landskapsnivå är skuldfritt, men det offentliga Åland är inte skuldfritt. För det andra gällande Minister Sampo Terhos förslag i statsrådet under förra mandatperioden. Det hade vi ju också en lång diskussion om i grundlagsutskottet, där också Leena Meri var ledamot under förra perioden, och vi konstateride också i grundlagsutskottets betankande i det ärendet att det var en åsiktsytring från regeringens sida, från Sampo Terhos sida och de blå ministrarna i regeringen då, men att det det inte har någon effekt på hela det lagörslaget eller betänkandet från grundlagsutskottet. Grundlagsutskottet slog mycket tydligt fast att ändring av Ålands självstyrelselag är en så stor och allvarlig sak att den inte kan vara kopplad till några andra reformer, utan de tor sakerna är helt Oberoende av varandra. Så konstaterade grundlagsutskottet i sitt betankande, och det är faktiskt så att regeringen är underställd riksdagen och att grundlagsutskottets åsikt ox har mycket stor betydelse. Och sedan för det tredje gällande att den ekonomiska delen i förhållande till den helhetsrevisionen som man arbetade med i den Parliamenttariska komittén som Tarja Halonen ledde, och där också Leena Meri och jag själv var med. Det är en del av den helhetsreformen. Man plockade ut de ekonomiska delarna, och man har nått samförstånd mellan Åland och riket att gå vidare med de ox ekonomska delarna, och de passar helt perfect skinp med den heletsrevisionen som görs och kommer att fortsätta under den ox mandatperioden. Så det är inga problem med den biten.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-14-ps-18.u10	Mr President! I do not have any memory of such a debate, in which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs specifically stated that the statements made by ministers would not be relevant, because this is specifically recorded in the Government Minutes. I do not recall having had such a debate in any context. On the other hand, in this proposal, the government itself states on pages 9 to 11 of the Self-Government Act that this is a social solution. As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I left a different opinion on this, and we voted on this in the Chamber. At least I cannot find the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but it is clear from the statements made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that something along these lines has been said in the Constitutional Committee by Mr Löfström. In addition, the consultations and opinions on Åland made it clear, as has been pointed out in several discussions, that it is a question of wanting more funding for Åland. In this political situation, we Finns of Peru were already looking at this in the spring when we voted on this, that when the provincial government sends a message from there that they agree to this equalisation criterion, we felt that it was time for us to send a message here that we do not agree. This can't be the way that one dictates the end result and then the others just stamp it as a rubber stamp. The question is precisely this, and on behalf of the government it was quite clear to me that because the war was intended to be brought to the finish line and it became a cost to Åland and it had to be compensated, then we went on to this kind of overcompensation, about 14 million compensation according to the government's and the Ministry of Finance's own calculations. So now we have to separate two things. And if Mr Löfström wants to compare the provinces and municipalities, then we can compare the province with the Finnish state: we are very indebted. Whatever you say. It is a good thing that you admit that there is no debt, and perhaps we are used to it. Good times and bad times, if we are the same kingdom, must be shared. We should not have areas that are in a better position than others.
