ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. In the debate, Sari Multala, supported by Sofia Vikman, has tabled a proposal for reasons of objection and a statement of objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u2	Finally, the proposal for a statement of reasons and a statement made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u3	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Group speeches shall not exceed 3 minutes and any other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. Furthermore, in the order in which I am considering it, I agree with the response. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u4	Mr President! We are now in the midst of a common and important issue. We're talking about who in this society deserves respect. We are talking about those who have fought hard for this country and built this country with hard work. Finland is a good country and a safe country to live in, live, work and try. We have much that we can be proud and grateful for, something valuable that we want to hold on to and which will make us want to build a better tomorrow together. All of this would not be possible without the enormous sacrifices of a generation seen by war. Last Saturday it was 80 years since the Winter War began. The war was full of pain and suffering, but at the same time an expression of unity and trust. As a common front, we began to fight for freedom with confidence in a better future. That's when it took courage. There was a need for guts that still carry Finnish society. Time has passed, but the actions of our veterans of war will never die, and it is therefore important to show deep respect and appreciation to our honourable citizens. Mr President! “Take care of your brother-in-law”,theinitiative march,the Veteransen cryouter. The Veteran generation is constantly shrinking, and that is why there are final moments to make value choices that show gratitude and appreciation for the sacrifices and work of veterans. I am therefore pleased that all the parliamentary groups have jointly decided to increase the front for our war veterans from the present EUR 50 to EUR 125. It's the biggest raise that's ever been made on the front. For many veterans, such an increase will bring relief to everyday life. In addition, the groups propose a reduction in the disadvantage rate associated with the right to rehabilitation of disabled war-qualified spouses from the current 50 % to 30. Appreciation is not just a matter of speech; action is also needed. Now these jointly decided solutions are exactly what veterans deserve, and it is particularly valuable that we were able to reach a common understanding of this in this Chamber across the government-opposition line. Mr President! The delegation of the Veterans' Unions made an appeal for these matters to be decided earlier in the autumn, and this is now being answered. I would like to thank the delegation of the Veterans' Unions and all the veteran organisations for their good cooperation and valuable contributions. The value of the life of our veterans is undivided in our society. Thanks to them, we can now build a better Finland together and see the light in the future. The Social Democratic Parliamentary Group supports the bill under discussion and wishes to express its gratitude and appreciation to the veterans of our wars, continuing the chorus of the Veterans’ evening cry, which I have just quoted: “Remember,the rocky country.”
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u5	Mr. Speaker! My grandfather had only turned 18 when the Winter War began on November 30, 1939. Grandpa enlisted in the armed forces and participated in the Winter and Continuation Wars. He was badly wounded by a mine but lived a good life and died in 1993. There are things you shouldn't measure in money. The welfare of war veterans is one of them. It is a matter of honour to ensure a framework for a decent life for the last veterans of our wars alive. Immediately after the wars, there were about 600,000 veterans in Finland. In September this year there were only 8613 beneficiaries and 76 beneficiaries of the foreign front allowance. According to the Finnish War Veterans Association, the average number of veterans is seven every single day. So this is our last chance to pay credit to the veterans of our wars. We are now dealing with a legislative initiative to amend Article 9 of the Front Military Pensions Act and Article 3 of the Law on the Advance Pensions to be paid abroad. The aim of the initiative is to increase the front fee to EUR 125 per month. I am delighted and grateful that in a patriotic spirit the parliamentary groups have found consensus on this issue. This change will bring the needed relief to difficult and economically scarce days of old age. The breast allowance is not taxable income and the front supplement does not affect other benefits. The financing of this reform must not be a budgetary issue because there will not be very long veterans among us. Mr. Speaker! On behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I would like to express my thanks to the veterans of our wars. Thanks to you, I was born in a free, independent country. Thanks to you, Finns have their own place for Finns in this world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u6	Mr President! What if a hundred years ago people had been asked who had learned in Stockholm, Berlin or, for example, London, which is exactly Finland’s independence in a hundred years’ time? Few people would have bet that Finland even existed. At least no one would have thought that we were going to take the lead in welfare — a country where Berlin, London and Stockholm are now seeking advice on how basic education should be organised, and which eventually even rises to the top of happiness measurements. It's just 80 years since the Winter War broke out. The preservation of independence in wars was a miracle, not only in the way in which the battles were fought and dared, but also, and above all, in the fact that they were able to fit in the same trench as one nation after only 20 years of civil war. For that miracle we must thank the generation of our wars. They were able to bury the quarrels and save the country with one accord. They found a unique spirit to block the attacker's plan. And they were sure of the issue of Finland's independence even in the difficult stages of the post-war period, so that we rejected the slip into a socialist democracy of the people. Mr President! We have much to learn from the spirit of the Winter War. The troops were run from the front, not given up, and the brother was not left behind. Now are the last moments to make decisions for veterans. The average age of veterans among us is currently about 94 years. The Advisory Board of Our Wars Front Veterans and a delegation of Veterans' Unions have done important work to bring the matter of veterans before parliamentary groups. The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party considers it necessary that soon the 100-year-old honorary citizens of Finland may spend their remaining years with dignity, as healthy and as fit as possible. Mr President! Parliamentary groups have jointly agreed on a proposal to increase the front bonus. The front increase for veterans would be increased from the current EUR 50 to EUR 125. The increase is the most important thing that has ever been made in front. At the same time, it is the least we can show the honourable citizens. In addition to raising the breast allowance, parliamentary groups propose a change to the right to rehabilitation of the marriage mates of severely disabled persons. The Coalition Party is committed to taking the necessary changes forward as soon as possible. Mr President! I myself belong to an age group that has still had direct contact with veterans through grandparents. Both my grandfathers already fought during the Winter War. One of them was wounded and later, exhausted by their injuries, died without ever having the opportunity to meet him personally. Without the veterans of our wars, there would be no independent fatherland or welfare society, but the victim was also immeasurably heavy in the families of hundreds of thousands of Finns. Cultivating the legacy of veterans and showing deep gratitude is indeed the least we can do. The common will of the parliamentary groups to improve the status of the last veterans should be our modest way of showing thanks and respect to those who were willing to give everything.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u7	Mr President! Last Saturday, we recalled the outbreak of the Winter War 80 years ago. The spirit of the Winter War in Finland will not be forgotten, even though the number of those who have experienced the war will decrease. This autumn, Finns have returned to the winter war moods and stages of the Winter War, following the performance of Antti Tuuri's Winter War series by Yleisradio. After all, this series of films tells of the events of the men of Kauhava, my home municipality, during the Winter War. The Winter War film is a touching description of the effects of the tragedy of war on the lives of ordinary Finnish men and family. In time, 80 years ago, my mother’s father, Eero, also went to the front. The average age of breast veterans is already 94 years and their number has decreased significantly in recent years. At the beginning of this year there were only about 10,000 Front Veterans. Now it's getting to be the last time we can still pay them a great debt of honor. It has been a good practice in this Parliament for us to have a common cause for honour citizens across party boundaries. Improving the services and benefits of veterans who have risked their lives to our country is not a place for party politics. This thinking is highlighted in this day-to-day political situation. The chairmen of parliamentary groups have met with representatives of veteran organisations each year and, on the basis of joint legislative initiatives, put forward proposals to improve the situation of veterans. In recent years, services and benefits have been improved step by step. The need for help and support will increase as veterans age. Services supporting home residences for breast veterans became legal a month ago, from the beginning of November. The home services of the Front Veterans and the War Invalids are now identical in terms of content and scope. This change was also implemented in the previous Parliament on the basis of a joint legislative initiative by the chairmen of parliamentary groups. President! The chairmen of the parliamentary groups have taken the joint legislative initiative now under discussion, proposing an increase in the front bonus from around EUR 50 to EUR 125. The proposal also applies to the front payment to be made abroad. The increase would enter into force on 1 April 1920. The reason for this is that this is an early possible date for the Social Insurance Institution. Mr President! As the number of veterans declines, it is important for us posterity to respect the immensely valuable work they have done by fostering the traditional work of preserving and passing on the spiritual and material heritage of veterans to new generations, both now and in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u8	Mr President! Last weekend, the anniversary of the Winter War broke out in this country. It has been 80 years since young people from all over the country went to the front to defend our country. They went there even though the equipment was inadequate, even though there was a huge army against which there was little hope. It was supposed to be over in a couple of weeks, but the Finns stood their ground. Some of those who left the front returned, some did not come home, and many of those who returned were broken. Life in the midst of war still lives in stories and people. For my grandmother, the winter war was the first of two evacs. The order was to leave home on the eastern border of Kuusamo from the village of home. Smaller children with their mother in a truck under a tarp about 200 miles [100 km] to Lake Pudas, older sisters would follow with cows. My grandmother told me how quickly the excitement of the first trip away from the village turned into fear when the war came true. That's what Grandma still remembers vividly. Mr President! I was born in a land of peace. The experiences of war, the experiences of the front, they are hard to understand. They are sacrifices for which each of us in this Chamber is deeply grateful. Mr President! This is one of the last moments when we can still thank and show appreciation to the veterans who defended this beautiful country. Therefore, raising the breast allowance is an important issue. As a result, the addition of front veterans more than doubles. This will bring relief to veterans living on small incomes. I would like to thank every parliamentary group for their good cooperation. It is great that the whole Parliament is involved in this decision. It is valuable that the veterans of our wars are so widely respected and appreciated. Mr President! The most important thing we can do today is to secure peace both in Finland and in the world. It's an inheritance that the veterans left us, and it's what the veterans want from us. When the veterans defended this country, they fought for children and young people. They fought for their children to have a future, for their children to live in security. We too hold on every day to the fact that the children and young people of this country are allowed to live in safety.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u9	‘Take care of the brothers who are missing. Remember, the land is precious to them. I'm singing to the / The memories will never be dim.” [ Talker sings] Mr President! My war - living grandparents left a valuable legacy — peace and love, a heritage of reconciliation. Never again will war be the guiding principle in a grandchild's life. The message is that no generation, no family has to give the heaviest sacrifice and send their family members to the front to fight for domestic independence and freedom. Live in peace and peace with all. On November 30, the outbreak of the Winter War became 80 years old. It took a heavy victim to defend independence. In military operations and on the home front, thousands of people were killed and wounded. Both on the front and on the home front, they did everything they could for their own country. Whether in rural areas or cities, factories or fields, everyone did their part. Children, young people, people of working age, the elderly — everyone was involved, and everyone was involved. They didn't leave the guy. They took care of the others. That is the precious inheritance for us — the inheritance of peace and care for others. Let's take that message forward, let's live in harmony with our welfare state, maintaining and strengthening our welfare state, building it up, taking care of everyone as much as they need to. Even today, it is good to think together about what we are prepared to do to put the common interest ahead of our own. That is what we must, if ever, remember and pass on to younger generations.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u10	Usually the song is not part of the speech room, but this time I did not want to prevent it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u11	Ärade talman, Mr President! A while ago, I met a front veteran who told me how he ended up in war. She and her friend had been biking from Helsinki to Kirkkonummi Meikojärvi in June 1941. On the way back, the wheel of another boy broke out, and when they patched it up in the sunshine, the passerby told us that the war had begun. The boys quickly returned home to Helsinki, and in a few days I met a veteran of the front who volunteered in Tuusula garrison. Since he was a minor, he forged his papers so that he would certainly be accepted. When I visited a nursing home in Kristina City, I learned another story. Gunnar had taken part in the battle in the Gulf of Finland. After the Russian soldiers had taken possession of the island, he had tried to escape by swimming to a nearby island. He was imprisoned, and the following years passed in Siberia. Years later, when he returned, his own mother no longer recognized him. After the war, these two young people returned to everyday life. After these experiences, they had to try to adapt to normal life again. We cannot understand what it was like.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u12	Mr President! “If our fathers had not done any work in this way, then If they had not walked in the fear of God and raised their children to know the true God, we would now be blind Gentiles. If they had not taught their children useful information, we would now be ignorant foresters. If they had not protected the land from enemy violence, we would not now have law, no justice, no freedom. For this land has suffered much hard because of its cold air, and the foreign nations have oppressed it. We must honor them as fathers and mothers, that we may prosper and live long in the land that God has given us.” With these words, Sakari Topelius writes of how gratitude is the basis for society’s success. Today, together, we propose an increase in the military pension for the men and women who paid a heavy price for our independence in their youth. The Winter and Continuation Wars left an indelible mark on the Finnish soul life. Each one, in one way or another, was subjected to military action, and everyone wanted to work on a common cause. At its best, the lost patriots in the hero tombs and the experienced generation of war among us are a reminder of this time. The collective spirit and responsibility of fellow fighters was one of the main reasons why Finns were able to cope with the great opponent. For a long time, with this principle, an internationally admired miracle of winter war was achieved, the survival of a small Finland free and independent. We are a people who have not succumbed to violence and totalitarianism but who have been willing, with great sacrifice, to defend fundamental rights and freedom. These freedoms are not self-evident. They still need to be defended. Today, perhaps more than ever after the war, we would need to fight a spiritual legacy, a spirit of national unity and putting the common interest before our own interests. At the same time, gratitude must continue to be used to make decisions that improve care and services for older people. Even in a good economic situation, however, the authorities alone cannot produce all the wealth. Well - being is basically born in human relationships, where care is taken, loved and cared for. We need each other, and everyone has something to offer. The Christian Democratic Parliamentary Group strongly supports the improvement of pension provision for our honorary citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u13	Mr President! Within the framework of this legislative proposal, supported jointly by all parliamentary groups, it seems particularly appropriate to speak. There's always room for good decisions. This is a good decision. My father was in the war as a pioneer and photographer. He was 17 when duty called. I've always been proud of my father and his accomplishments. The efforts of men and women who have shown great heroism and endured intense mental and physical stress in front of the country unite Finns, for we have deep appreciation for those who have gone through the war. Several decades have passed since the war, but their stories continue to affect Finnish society. They are present in the face of veterans who are still among us. We look at them and see the work for the Fatherland and its reconstruction. When we look in the mirror, we see how we have built our society since then. Mr President! During the war and immediately thereafter, we had no choice as we now have — we have different options today. We fought, we survived, we started over. People shared a common purpose and a similar experience of the challenges faced, which at times may seem insurmountable. We're all familiar with the phrase "no one leaves a friend." Under the conditions of war, community grew not only on the front but also among those who remained at home. Other people were cared for and helped. The trials were easier to endure together. Wars, losses, injuries, and years of reconstruction have been overcome with extreme scarcity through hard work, humility, and helping others. Faced with the difficulties experienced by previous generations, today’s problems take on different proportions. Everyone's bet, poor and rich, was needed during the war. We need everyone's input today. Resistance has been overcome and can still be overcome. For us today, this is an important lesson. Our task is to build the most sustainable and strong Finnish society. We cannot do this unless we learn from the values, experiences and tenacity of the generations of veterans. In particular, I hope that we will learn from them the art of doing things together. It is our duty to uphold it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u14	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u15	We will now resume the debate on item 4 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u16	Madam President! 80 years ago in the autumn of 1939, the threat of winter war floated over Finland and Finns. The vicar of Kivijärvi and Merijärvi before that, Mr. Väinö Havas, first-period MP of the Coalition Party, wrote a poem here in Parliament. Viljami Kalliokoski, a member of his rural union, took this poem to Taneli Kuusisto to write. We had a common cause across party lines. A new Christmas song was born, starting with: “A partavu,a celebration of great peace,where the thunderstorms of an accident were clouded,a calm forest mound like a tensioned death.” Let the hymn of peace hum the ore, hugely playing the thank you psalm.” When the winter war broke out, Congressman Väinö Havas decided to volunteer for the front. He had previously participated in civil war as a student and also participated in the Estonian and Olonets campaign. There was no Twitter, but otherwise people were surprised and puzzled about going to the Winter War. Väinö Havas answered them: Not everyone understands what I'm doing. You don't have to. The main thing is that I feel in my conscience that this is exactly what needs to be done. The Christmas song written in the Parliament marked his way: “And where the minor oppression,the right to violence,where the wall of the two prison vaults and the martyr’s fate,you can obtain it from the messenger cross. There the victory, where the sacrificial mind is.’ Brothers in arms and friends died next to Captain Havas. He said at his friend’s grave: “Our son and daughter are sleeping on the mounds and telling them about the brothers who gave our freedom as a wall We will show them the fields which the fireplaces have planted, the flashing bays of which they have asked for the water, the forests where their axes have been calcined. When our sons grow up to be young, we say to them: Take care of your inheritance, son.” Congressman Havas took the war to peace. He also went into a further war where he fell in the battle of Suvilahti. The enemy's bullet hit the heart directly. The soldiers held him for a while before they carried him away. Today we have respected the legacy of veterans. Their ranks are thinning. There's always room for good decisions. It's our last chance to support our country's builders. I am glad that Parliament is raising the front, and I wish everyone a happy Fourth of July in the words of the Christmas song of the Winter War: ‘A celebration of peace,on the nekelsivetnostuskana, to overcome the madness of power, the poor, to weaken their honor. Come with courage, bringing the shepherds, the most expensive ones in the night. “
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u17	Mr President! History must not be forgotten, and that is why it is important to talk about it. It's been 80 years since the Winter War began. Many of us have contact with it through our own relatives and acquaintances. Our children and their children have less and less personal contact, because there is less and less of this generation among us, but their work must not be forgotten. It is important to remember those who are still experienced in the war among us and to raise the military pension, and I would also like to emphasise the importance of recording the knowledge of the wartimes of those who are still in our midst. It is also good to say that the EU is a peace project. Not everything has been successful, but cooperation between the EU countries has guaranteed us long-term peace. War was also part of my childhood through the experiences and stories of my grandmothers. Both acted as a lott, and my other grandmother told me that the worst memory of the war was when a young man was brought without head to a military hospital. Another told us that during Christmas, transportation and gifts were brought to the front with a horse ride. The horse was shot, but apparently people were not lost there. This generation was deeply saddened by the loss of relatives, acquaintances, brothers, siblings, and it seemed to be a tangible generation experience that drew serious when it was discussed, but on top of that there was great gratitude for how well things were later. Now these grandmas don't tell these stories anymore, at least a lot of them. It is important to digitise and record these stories. I was able to listen to my grandmother's stories in the library of Seinäjokin Nurmo on a vhs tape, which fortunately was still there, because apparently in the '70s there were group interviews with experienced people. Unfortunately, however, this material has not been digitised either, so I do not know how much longer it will be there. Now is the last moments to remember the last people who have experienced war, the veterans, and to record their experiences so that we know what happened in order to avoid this. Understanding everyday experiences is increasingly important in history research. Sometimes wars are the sum of unfortunate events, but often also bad politics. Its sufferers are ordinary people. I hope that we will not forget what has been experienced, and we will be able to tell these very moving and interesting everyday stories to future generations who will certainly no longer have the same personal touch with these events.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u18	Madam President! I do not know whether we still have many opportunities to talk about the matter of veterans after tonight in this Chamber, but we have heard, today, and quite on the subject, touching, good speeches on an important subject. I believe that we all understand what patriotism, independence and independent Finland mean. My own father went there at the age of 20 80 years ago when the Winter War began. He served his homeland for over five years on the front of hard trials. He was also wounded in the war, but life was allowed to continue with him even after the war. He didn't want us kids to know much about the horrors of war. My mother, who was still alive, was on the front of the house as an air traffic control tent. When he was 16 years old, he saw a tower guarded near the Haapamäki railway yard being bombed in the cold of the winter war. He still remembers these events well today. During weekends in my home country, I have been allowed to accompany many of the warmakers and builders of our country on the last journey. Each time it has been very touching to see how literally a brother and sister are not left or left in this country. In small places I have noticed how even the last veteran alive in the locality has been escorting a brother or sister on his last journey. The generation they represent did many miracles that today’s man is not capable of. Today's legislative initiative is important and necessary, although the improvements when it comes into force on 1 April 2020 are unfortunately far too late for many who have waged war. Unfortunately, as in the past, the veterans of our wars have been ignored in this initiative. Today we have spoken in a colorful manner about many important things in this Chamber, but I believe that the matter of veterans is what unites us most in this Chamber. And I believe that the matter of veterans is the thing that unites us Finns most outside the hall. We are living in uncertain and rapidly changing times, but could we, in this Chamber too, take an example from the warring generation on matters other than the one we are dealing with here? They then knew how only by acting together this country was saved in time and later built into today’s international welfare state. Madam President! The legislative initiative under consideration to amend Article 9 of the Front Military Pensions Act and Article 3 of the Law on Advance Pensions payable abroad is very necessary and to be supported. Thank you, Madam President, for allowing me to make this speech at this time of night just before 11 a.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u19	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 12/2019 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u20	Mr President! I am presenting the report of the Committee on Finance on this matter as chairman of the tax section, which concerns changes in income tax, the scale and this legislation on income tax. The proposals concern first of all taxes on earned income. The committee supports the government's proposals in this regard. The revision of the earnings index will be subject to changes which will reduce tax revenue by slightly less than 500 million. A reduction of 200 million has been proposed for income tax, which is targeted at people with low and middle incomes. The same proposal also includes a continuation of the solidarity tax, which the committee also supports and considers appropriate. All in all, this government proposal, which is here, will reduce taxation on income bonds between 2 and 9 and will have the greatest relative impact on income deciles between 6 and 9. At the top of these deciles, taxation will be slightly tightened. All in all, the committee states in this report that if the solidarity tax is not taken into account, the changes proposed in this proposal to the tax bases will reduce the tax burden on employees in all income categories, as described in the table in the government proposal. This table can be found in the actual presentation on page 15. In its own text, the committee also draws attention to the fact that, in addition to these government tax changes, changes in employees' tax-like contributions affect the whole. As a whole, labour taxation will increase by around EUR 14300 and by more than EUR 24000 per year. The committee also states in this text that the blackmail is due to an increase in employees' tax-like contributions when the temporary reduction in health insurance contributions provided for by the so-called competitiveness agreement expires. In the same context, when this legislation was adopted during the last term of the government, the burden of payment was transferred from the employer to the employee. This, as it were in history, has also been recorded for these solutions. This proposal, which the Government has now submitted, which we are discussing today, does not contain a proposal for those fees, but these changes, which will now cease, have been made in 2016 and 2018, i.e. during the previous Board of Directors. The whole of this is also, President-in-Office, the proposals for a reduction in household income. We know that the reduction in household income is being moderated. The committee also considers this proposal appropriate and supports it. Some of the texts reflect on the diversity involved in this proposal. However, it is good that a certain reduction in the proposal is mild and moderate. We also assess, on the basis of expert advice, that, although there are doubts that this might have some effect on the black economy, we conclude that, since this is so mild, it will hardly have any significant effect on this issue overall. This report also shows some of these figures, which, according to the latest data, resulted in 426000 households, and on average this reduction has been EUR 1040. It should be noted that the new ceiling on which to obtain or to what extent to deduct is higher than this, that is to say, a large, significant proportion of the reductions made at the moment would not apply, but rather the average reduction is 1040. All in all, about 12% of taxable persons who have made a household allowance exceed its new limit, and this would have affected them, 12% of those who have done so, that is to say, a reasonable reduction. It is important for the committee to record here at the end the principle of the government programme, one entry. We would like to draw attention to the fact that we have to find out how such aid could be targeted in such a way that households with low incomes in particular would benefit more from it than today. The committee is also pressing for the implementation of this government programme entry. President! In brief: There is still a whole proposal on migration costs. It provides tax relief for removal costs, so that only half of these compensations, which can be received, are taxable. Similarly, changes are being made to the tax on so-called key persons, which is, therefore, such a tax relief, which has been in force continuously since 2001 in practice. It would be made permanent and the withholding tax would be updated from 35% to 32%. Finally, President-in-Office, here is the proposal to reduce interest on housing debt. As in recent years, this right of reduction is proposed to be narrowed down moderately and gradually. In this situation, in the context of low interest rates, we see that this is a continuum for the development that has been going on for many years and is justified in this situation. President! It should be noted that there are opposition protests here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u21	Mr President! In this context, I would really like to point out that I find it extremely harmful to allow the taxation of labour in Finland to tighten up. In its own alternative budget, the Coalition Party has offered a clear alternative to the line that the average wage and salary earners are about to lose less of their own work next year. A middle-income family with two working parents will have more than EUR 300 less in hand next year due to the rise in the side costs of the salary and the lack of compensation for the increase in secondary costs. This is a very damaging development. We already have a strong progression, which is not only visible to the well-earned, but already at the most common wage level, which is EUR 2600 per month for the wage earner, will only be about 55 cents of the extra euro he earns in the hand. When it comes to average earnings, we are already talking about the fact that, for example, a teacher who takes extra lessons is less than half of the extra euro he earns. It is quite clear that this is not an incentive to work, and this has been reflected in surveys carried out by employees' organisations, for example. In the STTK study, about one third of the employees who responded said that they have not done any more work because of the high tax burden on additional work. In a similar survey of Akava, more than half of the respondents were only partially or totally not interested in more responsible jobs because they felt that due to taxation, earnings would not increase sufficiently as the complexity of the work tasks increased. In other words, it is quite clear that people are able to calculate whether work is worth doing, whether it is worth doing more work, whether it is worth taking on more demanding jobs, and in this situation, everything disappears when people do not have enough incentives to work because labour taxation is so tight. This is also reflected in OECD studies. In Finland, labour taxation is much more strained than, for example, the neighbouring country in Sweden, where the average earnings leave more than EUR 2,000 a year in the hands of employees than in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u22	President! For our part, in our own option, which has been presented in this protest 1, we assume that the purchasing power of workers should be increased, and our proposal is to increase the purchasing power of 100 million people by changing the reduction in earnings. At the same time, a reduction in pension income is also proposed to be changed and its impact would be 50 million additional purchasing power for pensioners. Furthermore, in line with our alternative budget, we are proposing a return to the child allowance. This has, on the other hand, been criticised for being a somewhat complicated way of reducing children, but the fact is that we want to make a point of wanting to encourage and support those who have made children, because then one day they will also pay our pensions. It is further suggested that family carers are supported and their ability to cope is supported. The work of carers saves a lot of social spending, and in some way support for informal care needs to be brought to the right level or form a kind of family care allowance or even a clean hand. We have a draft amendment to this, and we will then put forward these amendments in detail. We propose that the first draft law should be adopted as it stands, the second draft law had about five or six draft amendments, and we propose that 3. the draft law is rejected. It contains a draft law on key foreign persons.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u23	Mr President! The changes in the debate are quite moderate in the direction of the other, so there is no major drama about this government proposal as such; it should be identified first. The Government considers it important to address the difficult situation of the poorest Finns in particular, to increase social security and to reduce taxation primarily in their case, because it is known that people are currently very difficult to be there and that far too many people are forced to rely on income support when primary social protection is not enough. As far as income support is concerned, it is known that if something is a bad incentive trap. The safety component is only EUR 150, and there are quite few jobs in this country where you can stay below that limit, in which case income support actually crowds people out of receiving short and irregular jobs that are increasingly available in society. It is therefore significant that social security is kept at a level that allows people to live on it and does not have to rely on income support for a long time. This is a matter of priority if we consider the main obstacles to people's employment, especially when we talk about the unemployed who are in the most difficult economic situation and who are most in need of more work. There is also, of course, the intention to reform social security, but once again it is not the subject of this item. When it comes to these changes in social insurance contributions and other tax-related contributions linked to the Competitiveness Pact, the previous government’s competitiveness agreement passed on payments from employers to employees. This is precisely a transfer. If you look at economics, what matters is precisely that it is a transfer, because it can be thought that such payments actually grow fairly between the employee and the employer. Surely this is something that will now be remembered and taken into account in the Federation Round when considering the level of pay that is ready. So it is, above all, the issue of the labour market when we talk about it, and it is the decision of the last government that we now have to take into account here. Then, if you talk about how taxes affect working Finns — not unemployed but working Finns in particular — there is more information available than the surveys of these social partners, for example, from the State Financial Research Centre, which has estimated that, in reality, labour taxation has no significant impact on incentives to work, but the motivation of Finns to work comes from somewhere else than how many euros will be left in the hands, depending on the complexity of the tasks and the number of jobs. These incentives come from the sense of work, jobs and the appreciation of work, which, however, is widespread in Finnish society, rather than from whether the cent is left in the hand more or less. This is a good thing for all of us in this Chamber to recognize.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u24	Mr President! Throughout the autumn, we have had a debate in this Chamber on what will happen next year with regard to the taxation of employees. We have constantly reiterated our concern that this government does not pay enough attention to the ordinary, hardworking, working person, the normal housewife, and the ordinary family weather that rises every morning, to go to work to make a living for itself and its family. And, as we now see, Mr President, when you read this report from the Committee on Budgets, it also states that next year, with the changes in payments, almost all levels of income will actually be subject to higher taxation — not to a reduction, as has been assured several times this autumn by colleagues from the government parties in this Chamber. They have told us that this government is allocating EUR 200 million to reduce wage taxes, and they have reminded us that worry is going to be taken care of. But, as we see, President-in-Office, in fact, this government proposal will lead to a tightening of taxation for the majority of employees next year. This is what Mrs Suomela said about this competitiveness pact: it is true that tax increases will be driven by the tax-related side costs passed on to the employee by this competitiveness pact, but it is not the sorrow of the ordinary person who works in the workplace to think about when he gets a pay slip, which is why this metalman, nurse, engineer will get less in hand next year than this year, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is the responsibility of this gym and the Finnish Government to ensure that the work is profitable and that the wages will also be left in hand than they will be this year. [Amendment to the reply ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u25	In a few moments, we will open up the possibility of replying. I will take a few more points.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u26	Mr President! This is where Mr Marttinen and Mr Vestman spoke excellently, and Mr Vähämäki's speech also had many merits. Indeed, this real increase in the taxation of labour next year is truly a terrible thing for the purchasing power of Finns and for the well-being of Finns. Mr President! I would like to bring a point of view to this debate — and I would like to appeal in particular to the responsible representatives of the centre — that you should consider this whole tax package, because, when the taxation of labour income actually increases, the simultaneous tightening of taxes on consumption, such as, for example, the massive EUR 250 million planned by the government for the taxation of fuels, will hit very hard on the incomes made available to people living outside the capital region and the well-being of all the inhabitants of the provinces. The fact that the representatives of the centre have referred in their speeches to the fact that previous governments, either under pressure from the Greens or for fiscal reasons, have increased fuel taxation is not justified by this. It is now being done in a situation where the taxation of labour income is also being tightened, which means that the tax is now being imposed on Finns. And this particularly affects all Finns who work and live in the provinces where you have to use a passenger car to travel, do business, live in general. In other words, Mr President, I would like to make this appeal in the middle of the Chamber, that consideration should be given to the fact that next year's budget could be dealt with on the basis of an alternative budget for the assembly, not on the basis of the proposal of the already downturned Rinte government, which will not result in any tightening of taxes on fuels, but, on the contrary, in reducing taxation as a whole by EUR 1 billion and will create the conditions for improving purchasing power and improving employment and the economy in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u27	Mr President! It is important for the SDP that changes in taxes and benefits for low-income earners take effect next year. It is also important for us that the taxation of all low incomes should be reduced in accordance with the Government Programme. For example, the taxation of all small and medium-sized pensions and benefits will also fall. [Department : What about the employees? ] The budget includes investments in benefits, training and employment services as agreed in the Government Programme. A moderate cut in the household allowance can be seen as a fair way of financing these investments, since it has benefited the highest number of high-income people who can afford to spend thousands of euros to buy services at home. It is important for us that the change to the household allowance is small, as it will increase the number of jobs and other services and will curb the informal economy. However, such small changes have no impact on employment or the informal economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u28	Representative Eloranta — and now a button will be opened.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u29	Mr President! It is very important and a good thing that these tax and benefit changes will now reduce the income gap next year. It is particularly important for us Social Democrats that the taxation of all low incomes should fall just as agreed in the Government Programme with the government parties. Indeed, it is also important to mention the fact that the taxation of all small and medium-sized pensions and benefits is falling. This has clearly been a pain spot. Indeed, EUR 200 million of these reductions in income tax will come next year. Indeed, I would like to reiterate that this ve-ron reduction is targeted at low- and middle-income employees, pensioners, entrepreneurs and recipients of other benefits, and more than 70 per cent of Finns now have more in hand than this year and income differentials are narrowing. This is a very important act of justice, i.e. more than 70 percent of them are left in the hands. This is a very important issue, which affects a large number of Finns. Finally, I wanted to say that it is important that these costs of moving paid by the employer be subject to a 50% tax exemption. This will encourage people to move from work to work. This is, of course, extremely important so that we can facilitate people's transition to work in areas where there is work and even labour shortages — as in Varsinais-Suomi, where I come from. We have had real problems getting more workers to the shipyard and the car factory. Let us hope that this will now facilitate people's transition so that employment rates can also rise and jobs for as many people as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u30	Mr President! I thought it was important what the representatives of Pierainen and Eloranta mentioned above. It is true that taxes are also about value choices, and here, however, the clear choice of values is that the emphasis is on reductions for people on low and medium incomes. The government will not increase taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u33	Mr President! There should be at least a consensus on the facts here. If you look at the report of the Committee on Finance, which states that ‘to take account of the rise in the level of income and the changes in the tax-related contributions of the wage-earner,the tax In other words, all these wage earners are actually subject to higher taxes on labour because of the choices made by this government, this government has chosen that fewer employees will be left in hand next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u36	Yes, the tax nature is not the same as the tax if this can be identified at first. And the decisions relating to the Competitiveness Pact were the decisions of the last government if we can also identify this and from these common points of view then continue this debate. The Coalition Party is proposing a billion tax cuts and is now in the process of cutting social security for the poorest. As I said, it's a value choice. The poorest Finns are in a difficult position, and I would like to say that our common concern is that no one is going to be in extreme poverty in Finland. Unfortunately, it does not seem to be everyone's concern, and it is a real shame. Then, with regard to the allocation of these charges between the employer and the employee, it is partly between them, and partly so that when the competitiveness agreement has thus decided to invest them to the employee, it will certainly be taken into account there too in the key discussions of the unions. But the fact that, as if we were going to leave here now to say that they should be targeted differently — I'm not really thinking,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u37	Mr President! There's talk of taxation, and there's a reason. I would have hoped a decade ago that we would have had the courage to discuss transport taxation and charges more widely. Unfortunately, it became a real mix-up and the way of the battles, but now we are still talking about whether fuel taxes are being raised or not. Well, in the current situation, it does want to be raised. Now, if ever, we must have the courage to discuss the future of transport, both in terms of fees and taxes, and to see the change that is also required of us. Biofuels and the promotion of gases also affect the livelihood of rural areas, and the opportunity for rural areas to cope with the challenges that we will face in the future with regard to fuels. Nor can it always be assumed that the old one will survive with that fuel pump, and we must have the courage to look ahead beyond our own shoetips.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u38	Mr President! The representative, Mrs Suomela, raised the issue of the importance of working, and I do not deny it at all. This is an important issue, but it is also inevitable that the net disposable income will have an important role to play in the profitability of working. True Finns want to make sure that working people’s money is enough to live normally — and preferably to save something even for old age. As a representative Vähämäki has just said with merit, and we Finns in the alternative budget have 50 million more for the reduction in labour income, 50 million more for the additional pension income reduction and 70 million euros for the return of children to income tax. This return would mean a net income of up to EUR 400 for families with children with low and middle incomes, and this is also what we are proposing here. We also propose that the reduction in the household allowance proposed by the government be withdrawn or rejected in its entirety. We want to maintain both the retention rate and the maximum amount. We think that all of these proposals would make a significant contribution to:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u39	Mr President! Let us have this debate then — here, colleagues from the government parties have clearly not even read the report of the Committee on Finance. Mr Eloranta has just stated, as Mr Viitanen said, that the taxation of low incomes will be reduced next year and that this EUR 200 million reduction will be directed at low and middle-income employees, among other things, along with others. However, the report states that the taxation of low-income workers is being tightened both by the annual income of less than EUR 14300 and by the annual income of more than EUR 24000, and I do consider these people to be just ordinary people who want to work, to make a living for themselves and their families. In fact, this government proposal — or now the report — does not really lead to a reduction in the tax burden on these people next year; it will become stricter, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u40	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say that when the Finns of Peru brought up this alternative budget here, I would like to remind you of your figures that they were not true. You said, among other things, that the tax exemption for informal care was only EUR 20 million, and the increase in the VAT threshold was also significantly lower than that which the Ministry of Finance has reduced. I would hope that in future you will make better sure that the figures are accurate. But then I would like to say that taxation at all should be long-term, consistent, encouraging and socially just. In my opinion, these elements can be found in these government bases for the coming year, so that they can be defended. However, with regard to reductions, the more we have different deductions within the tax system, the more complex our taxation will become, and that is not very good for municipalities, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u41	Mr President! The effects of taxation on incentives to work have been discussed here. I noticed that Mrs Suomela felt that they were very minor. Well, they're not that big on average, but for some groups they're pretty big. Such groups include women of many ages and single parents and many others, and the lack of flexibility does not mean that these effects do not exist. And, Mrs Suomela, in the same speech, you argued that if you were to receive income support, then you would end up in a really more significant incentive trap. Income support is an incentive trap, but, of course, the mechanisms for incentives to work there are the same as in income tax — and yes, if we clearly want more employment in Finland for many years, it makes sense to invest tax reductions in income tax. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u42	Mr President! It is true that the transfer of employers' contributions from employers to employees will reduce the income from wages in hand next year, but it must be borne in mind that this decision was indeed linked to the kiky agreement agreed during the previous term of the government. There is no way out of the fact that the previous government is now, unfortunately, digging a hole so big for the workers that there is no way forward from that pit. That is why this government now wants to improve the position of those on low and middle incomes and to reduce their tax burden. It is true that not everyone's taxation will be reduced by this decision, but the taxation of around 70% of Finns will be reduced by these decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u43	Mr President! The Kiki agreement was concluded by employers and employees,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u50	Mr President! Here Mr Kankaanniemi made it clear that 140 000 jobs have been created by the Kiki agreement. I do not believe it, and there is nothing to prove that it is. Now that there have been different public calculations of what this government proposal would do or would do well, the Ministry of Finance's calculation has taken full account of the changes decided on in terms of income and taxes and all Finnish employees, including pensioners, and shows that 70 per cent will benefit from this discount.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u51	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u91	Mr President! Just a few comments on this debate: First of all, these tax-like payments: of course, it is quite clear that when tax-like payments rise, then the citizen's hand-in-hand income is reduced, and in that sense the citizen really does not see whether this is done through taxation or through tax-like payments. There has also been a good debate here on the level of social security, and it must be understood that this social security system itself creates incentives if, at the same time as the level of social security is being raised, as this government is doing, it is not also able to coordinate taxation and, on the one hand, wage income and social security, so that it, coordinated, continues to be an incentive to take up jobs. At the same time, care must also be taken to ensure that companies then have incentives to provide them with jobs. Otherwise, there will indeed be a situation in which the various traps of incentives will rise, both in theory and in reality. That is why the Christian Democrats have been putting forward for a long time this model of encouraging basic security so that we can take into account the coordination of both taxation, social security and wage income. This is one of the most important reforms when we consider how to get the incentives traps out of our system, and this is really important when considering the future of the Nordic welfare model. Well, perhaps a few words ago about what has been raised here in protests about the reductions that the Christian Democrats in their own alternative budget have also been supporting and supporting: In other words, first of all, the child allowance from the time the Christian Democrats were in the government. At the time, we were in the process of creating this child-reduction, and we believe that it would be worthwhile to return child-reduction, because this is definitely a fiscal means of supporting families with children with low and medium incomes through taxation. The reduction in the household allowance should be completely eliminated because the household allowance has an impact not only on the informal economy but also on the very fact that such small businesses, the one-to-two-person companies, will be able to employ more workers. Thirdly, what does not appear in these objections but is in the government's proposal: an increase in the reduction in pension income. This is important, and the Christian Democrats would be making a bigger increase in this, precisely because every government, in turn, has been raising the guarantee and national pension, and that is of course good, but this is where it wants to be, in the case of the pensioners of the smallest earnings-related pensions, it is, as it were, an incentive for their career to have had some meaning, to become rather small. In other words, we have a guarantee pension that starts to rise to roughly the same levels as the smallest occupational pensions, and therefore a reduction in pension income would be an extremely important way of doing so.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u92	Mr President! As we know, more and more educated Finns move abroad for many reasons, and one of them is better wages and lower taxes. Finland is not a particularly attractive country for well-earned people, precisely because of high labour taxation. High taxation also banishes entrepreneurs to other countries. Representative Suomela said that the income tax rate would not be relevant in working life. I claim that taxation is of great importance in working life. Finland should reduce the tax burden on work and entrepreneurship in all income categories. This is the only way to improve Finland’s traction and grip strength. The government should understand that by raising taxes Finland will become even more reliant on the experts that Finland now needs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u93	Mr President! There have been many good speeches here, but now I am a little surprised by what Mr Viitane has said. He's the president of the tax division.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u98	Mr President! Mr Marttinen — and the members of the Assembly here before — have used fine expressions. They are strongly — as they said — on the side of the ordinary and hardworking Finns, and then comes the long story.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u102	Mr President! I think it is all right that even the representatives of the Coalition Party here this time, unlike I remember about a month ago, stressed that the income tax scale and tax-related social security contributions are different. It is also quite true, of course, that together they will have an impact on that handicraft, but they are different. We have already been through their history many times here, and now we are dealing with income tax scales. And, as has been said, an inflation check of 3.1% is being carried out, which in practice is the same as a reduction in income tax as a result of it. So next year, the same income will be paid less than this year's tax due to the 3.1% inflation adjustment on income tax. But we have also spoken here about the financing of well-being, and now I myself emphasised in my brief debate that progressive income tax is a tax revenue of EUR 6 billion. The total tax revenue collected by the state amounts to EUR 47 billion. By adding a municipal tax and then social security contributions, we are talking about EUR 95 billion, which is the 42% tax rate on our total gross national income of EUR 230 billion. Right now the Nordic countries are on levels like these —42,43,44.We are in Finland at the time of the recession of the 1990s and since then at a higher level,and this 42percent is reasonablely high. It is the sixth highest in the OECD countries, but it is precisely the level at which we can maintain the things in which, on the other hand, we always rank there among the top five or three countries, recently even as the top country of undefined happiness, but this kind of public safety and welfare level here in Finland is. And as a final comment on this incentive: I think what Mr Vartiainen said on the basis of research is probably not wrong in itself, and I do not deny it, but I take just this kind of everyday experience for example. In this respect, colleagues from the representative group will probably know my background work: I have been working for a long time and this has in practice meant that the income level has been relatively good. When our progressive taxes were tighter, doctors did not work less overtime, but actually did more than they did today. In other words, it is not at all unambiguous that if we have a certain level of taxation it will reduce it to do extra work, but rather to do extra work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u103	Mr President! Yes, there is a real need in this Chamber for the defenders of hard work today.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u106	Honorable Speaker! Good speeches have been made here, and they have mostly come from the left side of the hall. Among other things, Mr Lindén commented on these table changes, index changes. It is indeed the case that these tables are changed in line with the rise in earnings levels. The fact is that, even if they are criticised, the opposition has not become a counter-proposal, which is generally accepted. Over a period of many years, this method of making these table changes has taken place in line with changes in earnings levels. In my opinion, more should be said about the level of low income, and in this respect we must acknowledge to the government that the Government Programme and this budget for next year will reduce the number of people on low incomes from Finland by 20298. This is revealed in the calculation made by the calculation service of the Parliament. Our alternative budget will reduce 1080 children from low income. When, on the other hand, you look at the calculations that have been made on the alternative budget of the Coalition Party, the alternative budget of the Coalition Party will increase the low income of 28201 people. For persons over 65 years of age, 2168 people are converted to low incomes. The alternative budget for the Coalition Party will also increase 14585 low-income women to Finland. These are pretty big readings. When we consider the impact on employment of alternative budgets, the reality is that the government has not yet presented its own employment programme. We have our own programme coming next year, probably around the time of spending limits decisions. The aim is to have an employment programme of around 80. Of course, the convention had its own employment programme, but it is a little difficult to think that only one party has an employment programme — the government does not have its own, and we do not have its own — and then it is said that OK, in relation to the government our programme will become so and so many more jobs. In my opinion, only when all parties and governments have their own employment programmes to present can we really see what the effects are. That's all I got.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u107	Mr President! In my previous speech, I really did say that the Kiki agreement would have brought 140,000 new jobs. Of course, it is not the case that the Kiki Agreement has brought them all, but we are certainly in agreement that it brought a significant amount together with other factors. Of course, thanks must be given to the social partners, in particular the SAK, Akava and STTK, who were involved in it together with the EK and KT, among other things. In other words, it had a positive effect, and I hope that we will be able to assess its magnitude one day. Even now, the most important thing is that these tax reforms, tax changes, create new jobs specifically for the business sector in terms of exports and processing, including services. In that sense, of course, this package must be assessed. It is very important, as someone here has said, that taxation is long-term. But even long-term considerations must not prevent us from making a tax policy that strengthens the Finnish economy, employment as a part of it, and improves the purchasing power of people and, of course, the purchasing power of those who lack it, because taxation takes too much of it. Mr President! This issue of pension income has also been raised in the protest of the True Finns, which states that the taxation of pension income is higher than labour income even in very moderate pensions. Well, we have a performance. I hope that Mr Kimmo Kiljunen will think about this in particular when he votes on Article 101 tomorrow,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u110	Mr President! This is the representative. Vähämäki praised the government with praise, and it actually strengthens my view that the sides of this hall are actually thinking of the economy in exactly the same way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u117	Madam President! Mr Pierainen pointed out earlier in this debate that there have been different calculations in public regarding the government's tax proposals. As Mr Vestman now seems to be still referring to the calculations made by the Taxpayers' Confederation, I thought to say a few words about this. In the calculation of the Ministry of Finance, comprehensive account has been taken of changes in income and taxes decided upon and all Finns, including pensioners, in addition to employees. It shows that 70 per cent of Finns will gain purchasing power next year. On the other hand, the calculations made by taxpayers do not take into account pensioners or changes in tax and benefit in a comprehensive way, so the calculations describe a different issue and it is not worth comparing them with each other. In the same way, the calculation by the Ministry of Finance is preferable to the fact that, for people, it is the income that is particularly important, as Mrs Zyskowiczkin rightly points out here. On the other hand, the calculations made by taxpayers also show that the taxation of pensioners with low and middle incomes is falling, while their pensions are increasing. Mr President! Since Mr Kankaanniemi raised the issue of tax exemption for informal care, I also thought to say a few words about this. The progressive income tax system used in Finland leads to the net after-tax benefit from care fees being higher the lower the other earned income of the family carer. On the other hand, tax exemption would benefit mainly family carers the greater their other earnings. For example, it would be of little benefit to a person receiving a mere remuneration for informal care for tax exemption. As far as this debate on the kiky agreement is concerned, I cannot believe the jobs brought by the kiky agreement, at least in the public sector, where working time was increased by 6 minutes a day and at the same time the holiday money was cut. Did the employment rate improve — especially when the central government shares of municipalities were cut while the tax revenues in the municipalities were reduced, and so I do not believe that the Kiki agreement, at least in the public sector, led to an increase in employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u118	Mr President! It has been disconcerting to follow this self-smoking of the coalition here, indirectly criticising the kiky agreement which it has been concluding and whose effects will continue to extend to next year. I must say that in itself I am convinced that the Kiki agreement has been a good thing. It has improved employment. I'm a representative. Vartiainen agrees with this, although the transfers of unemployment and pension insurance contributions from the employer to employees have certainly not been in themselves conducive to improving employment, that otherwise this pact has certainly had an employment-enhancing effect. Mr Kankaanniemi then spoke here in an earlier speech about entrepreneurship reduction. He seems to have overlooked that the entrepreneurial deduction became a permanent part of the Finnish income tax system during last spring's government negotiations.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u121	Mr President! There has been talk of a solidarity tax here, and the Coalition Party states that it should be abolished. On the other side of the government, we have taken the view that such a solidarity tax is also partly extorting this tax step, which is also important, that the greatest income, where there is the most money, should also be taxed. However, there is one problem with the solidarity tax and it is good to mention it here. It is that pensioners have this solidarity tax higher than other earnings, and this is already a rather problematic situation in terms of equality law. The pensioner is already receiving a solidarity tax of EUR 45000. It is higher, it is 6 per cent, when it is a couple of per cent of the income higher than normal earned income, and it is here, in principle, permanent for the pensioner, but temporary for other earned income. There's a real problem here. In principle, the approach is right that this solidarity tax exists, but all income should be treated in the same way. Mr Kankaanniemi asked me what I think about the stricter taxation of pensioners than wages. This is not the case for less than EUR 1000. For less than EUR 1000, pension income is not taxed at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u126	Mr President! Perhaps still enough of that pensioner tax, which I personally consider to be important, is that it is fair. I would now like to remind you here, when the matter was touched on again: I remember that when the last period began, the very first thing to do in the first autumn, when the very same tax laws that were being discussed today were regulated by the then government, and it was done so that the tax reduction came to a reduction in labour income, but not through a reduction in pension income, which led to all the speeches that had been made just before the elections, that there should be equal taxation, which was also regarded as an honour by the majority and the Finns of Finland. Yes, there's a representative. Even the Kankaanniemi was printing these buttons for the government's proposals at the time, [Call for the Cape] President! I have to say that, while we were discussing these differences in values on the way, I think we had a very good debate on these differences between the various parties, this once again crystallised a great deal when, by the representative of the Assembly, a speech was made here just now, calling again for the abolition of the solidarity tax and calling for a non-solidarity tax, that in these economic situations it has been seen to be justified in recent years that it could also be carried out by these people, who are now in the best position and who are in the highest income classes, and not always by the lowest income. This is just a reflection of the difference in values between the parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u127	[Mr. President! We are now dealing with the income tax scales for next year. The government is on the verge of calculating income tax for next year. With the Government's budget proposal, the majority of Finns' current incomes will increase. Labour taxation will only increase as a result of the competitiveness pact under pressure from the coalition, as social insurance contributions will continue to rise. Representative Vartiainen and many others have referred to the incentive effects of taxation and social security in the debate. It is true that, according to mathematical models familiar with economics, incentive traps are structurally unemployed. Unfortunately, life is more complicated than math. There are financial incentive traps in Finland. These are particularly affected by single parents, who, with double gross income, may be stagnating their income. Their situation will improve, in particular through measures directed at single parents, and this must be taken into account in the ongoing work on social security reform. The main incentive problems in Finland are bureaucratic problems. That is why the SDP has proposed a simplification of social security so that it is more predictable to coordinate work, taxation and social security. One must be able to trust that work is always worthwhile. This is not the case now, because the coordination of wage income and various benefits is complex and different benefits are reduced in different ways as wage income increases. Social security needs to be made predictable and therefore the SDP has proposed a reform of social security on the basis of the general security model. It will respond to these problems. In addition to tax and incentive problems, the employment of people is in fact more affected by the health and illness of the person, the level of education and, for example, loneliness, alone living. These issues are often addressed in the Government Programme through various actions. Many workers need support for their employment, and to this end the government is moving forward with the strengthening of employment services. In Finland, the Economic Policy Evaluation Council has stated that Finland is not on the right side of the Laffer curve, but on the left. This means, unlike Mr Vestman, that the calculation of income tax also reduces tax revenues. Surely we would all be pleased if it were possible to abolish income tax or taxation as a whole. Unfortunately, there is no such magical wall. The assembly and the rest of the opposition are prepared to reduce social security, reduce working conditions and lower taxes, regardless of what this does to Finnish and Finnish productivity. In Finland, employment and economic growth have been based on productivity growth for over a century. During the Government's term of office, productivity growth has stalled. Now the government invests in education, research and development and the well-being of people. This way we can increase productivity. Through it, we will increase tax revenue and we will also increase jobs. This is a completely different way from what the opposition favours, but it is a model that has been found to be working and good for the Nordic welfare state. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u128	Mr President! It seems that the new representative, Mr Mäkynen, has not read our alternative budget. In fact, there is as much investment in all levels of education as in the government's draft budget. In addition, there will be greater investment in research and product development with a permanent budget, as well as capitalisation of one billion for higher education institutions, i.e. significantly longer-term effects and with a permanent budget for education, research and product development. [MatiasInterpretation] A few comments on previous speeches: Mr Vartiainen has said very well what kind of situation Finland is in. It is not about the present and the current debt; it is about the future. We already know that, for example, age-related expenditure will increase significantly in the coming years. At the same time, in the absence of employment measures, our employment rate will not increase at the rate it should be, and this will be a major imbalance. It is well recognised that without an increase in the employment rate, first to 75% and, in the longer term, beyond that, the expenditure of our welfare society, which is now being increased, cannot be financed in the future without significant tax increases or substantial debt-taking. So that is what is at stake, not what the level of debt is at the moment. Mr Kiljunen here once again said that pension funds would be reduced to this level of indebtedness. It does give us the wrong idea of what money we have in this economy every year. It is quite a fact that we do not have this money at our disposal, and then you do not want that money to fall into that debt either. It is worth counting the income and the expenditure that is actually available, the money we spend.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u129	Mr President! I have to remind you again what the situation was when the Social Democrats were last in the government, 2011-2015: In four years, the central government debt increased from 80 billion to 100 billion and the local government debt from 10 billion to 17 billion. You sold government property for over $3 billion. The treasury went from 11 billion to 3 billion. Taxation tightened, local government finances were in real trouble, and there were a lot of municipal mergers, crisis municipalities, negotiations, weakening of services, increases in service charges and so on. In the spring of 2015, we were in this situation and we were forced to take some drastic measures to save Finland, and that was what happened — it was painful decisions. The situation is much better now, and in that sense I do not quite agree with what Mr Vartiainen said about this crisis, but we actually have a serious sustainability gap today. It gets worse every day because ageing affects it, cost development and many other things in a bad, bad way. This is a serious matter and it must therefore be pointed out that the policy of economic policy must now be such that we are saving the future and not going in the same direction as we were in 2011-2015. There are signs of danger. Mr President! Then there are these issues directly related to the theme. During that parliamentary term 2011-2015, the Minister for Finance, Jutta Urpilainen, indeed proposed a reduction in corporate tax from 26 to 20 per cent. It was certainly good in many ways — I believe that, for example, our investment in Äänekoski was boosted by it. But it is a fact that this is the kind of discount that the Social Democrats brought to large companies,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u134	Mr President! I would like to start by saying that although Mr Vartiainen here argued that the representative of the Finns of Peru Vähämäki would have praised this government's proposal for next year's income tax scale and income tax law, at least in my opinion he referred mainly to the way in which this proposal amends the income tax scale with the rise in the general level of earnings, as has been the case here in Parliament for many years, for example during the last period, and I still believe that it is a very effective and sensible solution. We have nothing to say about it, and it seems that there is no consensus, at least with this objection. On the other hand, we Finns in Peru have a different view with the government as to what kind of deductions and deductions should be applied to taxable income in addition to this income tax scale. We want to make sure that working Finns get at least enough of their earned income to live normally. Of course, it is both an incentive for employment and fairness, and the aim is to increase the employment rate to 75%, as the already fallen Rinte government did. Of course, this fairness must also apply to pensioners, and that is why the alternative budget for Finns and our objection includes a proposal for an additional tax reduction for pensioners, which would gradually approach the level of income tax for employees. This proposal by us is not yet enough to correct this difference in taxation between employees and pensioners, but it would be an important and important step in the right direction if it were to take place. I would now appeal to the former representatives of the government parties to vote in favour of this proposal, which is fair, for pensioners, after sleeping overnight. Now that I understand you are not bound by government discipline after the fall of the government, you are free to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u135	Mr President! I remained very interested in listening to this debate on economic policy. Yes, I must say that here, for example, Mr Vartiainen made an excellent speech about Finland being in trouble, in financial difficulties, and here on the other side the government representatives said that there was no problem. I do not really know what world we are living in now, but we have been constantly, for example, shaken by the fingers of the EU, and you are not mismanaging the economy. In other words, we must now remember that Finland is in debt all the time and we are in a way eating from our children's plates already at the moment. All we have to do now is remember that we are working together to make this economy rise. I believe that's what we all think in our hearts. Of course, I understand the political value choices that have been made, but I hope that together we will consider how to put this economy in order. Then there was Mr Mäkynen, who gave some praiseful speech — his first speech, congratulations. At this age, you can give me some advice: There is no point in speaking the modified truth in this Chamber; it has been seen once again this week. Then there is also such a thing that there is also an unwritten rule here that there is no criticism of a government partner. In his speech — and in your speech, Mr Mäkynen, who has now left here immediately after your speech — it became clear that he was critical of the coalition, that this was what the Coalition Party did last season and that this was what the Coalition Party did. We were not alone in it in any way, but, among other things, with the centre, which is the government party at the moment. These are such unwritten rules, because it is always the case that, alternately, we are in different formations of government, and yet it is worth maintaining such correctness if we are to make advanced progress here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u141	Madam President! I don't want to talk about the truth, but I can talk about opinions and different views. Mr Risikko, President of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, you have just said that the Social Democrats believe that the Finnish economy will not be in trouble. We all recognise the situation in Finland as regards the economy and employment development. I believe that we also have quite a common view of it, but the solutions we are taking forward from this situation are different. In this respect, I can say — and you know it is the chairman of the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy — that one of the strong contributions made by us and the government is precisely the strengthening of skills and thus the sustainable strengthening of employment and thus the strengthening of the national economy. Then I would like to comment on Mr Multala, when you have just said here that neither the Social Democrats nor the Government have... How you put it, in any case you questioned our employment policies and said that the employment measure of the Coalition Party is a reduction in unemployment security or, therefore, social security. That is what you said in your own speech. I do not know whether you were talking about what you are saying or what you are saying, but now I would ask you quite specifically when you are shaking your mind: what did you mean when you said that the employment measure for people would be a reduction in unemployment security or the best measure of employment would be a reduction in unemployment security? That is at least how we interpret and see what you have just said, and now I would like to hear what you have just said in concrete terms. Perhaps the best way to find out then is for all of us to correct it. There won't be a wrong picture.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u142	Mr President! In this debate, it has now emerged a few times that there are tax reductions for hard-working workers in the alternative budget for the Coalition Party. That is why I would like to point out here that even these excessive tax reductions, which the Coalition Group has raised in its alternative budget, are being paid out by eating pension funds. Indeed, the Coalition Party would like to include EUR 500 million from the employment funds in the state budget every year, which means that the budget would be financed by eating pension savings. This would be done by exporting the pensions of the unemployed — income-related unemployment benefit would no longer be a pension in the composition model. In other words, tax cuts in the alternative budget of the coalition would benefit particularly wealthy people and would further exacerbate future pension poverty.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u148	Mr President! I'll take it from here. For two hours now, I have listened to concerns about how the sustainability gap, how the Finnish economy, how we eat from the children's plates. All these assumptions are based on long-term forecasts of economic development that assume linear development, at least in a large picture, without disruptions. In fact, we know with a fairly high probability that digitalisation will soon change quite a lot, and even more likely that before those children eat from their plates, climate change will change a lot of things, we managed to control it or not. Therefore, what is our forecast for the future of the economy is certainly something other than linear, or something other than what we are now able to calculate from current speculations. And in such a situation, we must not focus on the statistics that we know will be obsolete at the time of its realisation — at least in part, in the essentials — but must try to develop a society in which we strengthen its knowledge of society, strengthen its trust capital, strengthen its infrastructure and, therefore, its resilience, so that, at the time when those disruptions come, we can respond to them as a society and withstand them as quickly as possible. And it requires a completely different understanding of economic policy than seeing how things have always been before.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u149	Mr President! Either I was not clear enough or not everyone heard or listened to what I said. I did not say what Mr Kiljunen said — I do not even remember what you said. I said that there are employment instruments, and some of them are, of course, those that your government, for example, is doing on the list today, which, at that moment, will weaken the situation of a group if they are not employed, and you yourself have, as it were, recognised. Such measures are also needed, but there are many other types of action. You just have to have the courage to make such decisions and have the courage to do so. One such measure could be, for example, a further reduction in early childhood education fees. It is an employment measure, more employment. I hope you do it. The whole reform of social security has been discussed here. It is a very necessary action and a great deal of work, but it is necessary to dismantle the incentive traps. Of course, there is also a need for investment in education and knowledge, such as the model of continuous learning, which is now in parliamentary preparation, and so on. Here, among our employment policies, there is much more to get to know. You're free to use these. We have also proposed, like the centre, to increase and facilitate local reconciliation in all companies and to increase and strengthen the personal service of the unemployed, which, fortunately, you are already doing. In addition, for example, according to Parliament's information services, the reduction in taxes on earned income is also a significant measure of employment on the scale in which we do so — I wonder if the employment impact was 5000 people. When reference was made to these missing employment measures, unfortunately, according to Parliament's information services, the employment impact of next year's draft budget for the Rinte government is negative.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u152	Mr President! Of course, eating from children’s plates is not the kind of food they put on children’s and young people’s plates that they can handle. As a follow-up to what Mrs Anneli said Mr Kiljunen mentioned the government's contribution to knowledge, and I would like to say that now that we are extending compulsory education to the upper secondary level, the recent STTK assessment estimates that this extension of compulsory education can improve the employment rate by up to 4% and that what this government is doing may even be the most effective of individual actions. So the question is that when a young person does not have a secondary degree, then the employment rate is just over 40 and, given that we have 16% of people without at least a secondary degree, this is quite a big and impressive measure when a secondary degree reaches over 60% of the employment rate. When education continues to rise — since we have the objective of increasing the level of education at all levels of education — these are certainly very effective means of employment. Then there was the talk of early childhood education. After all, the government is making reforms to early childhood education, which we are discussing later today, which means that we are removing the restriction on the right to early childhood education that the last government did. This is very impressive because now we are allowing all children to benefit from full early childhood education regardless of their parents' labour market status, and this is a very important factor. It has been calculated that investing in early childhood education is actually the most effective training measure. A single euro will benefit up to EUR 7 if early childhood education is of high quality.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u153	Mr President! We're having an interesting conversation here. A few comments on the speeches made by Mr Berg and Mr Kiljunen. First of all, I would like to correct the misunderstanding of the detail which was expressed in Mr Berg's speech. He said that the income tax reduction for the Coalition Party would be for hardworking workers. It will come to everyone, whether lazy or hardworking, and the implementation of our income tax system is not yet able to separate the lazy from the hardworking. This is just a minor clarification. Mr Kiljunen asked what these so-called cuts in social security are now. They really do survive by looking at our shadow budget. There is this differentiation of income security, which, according to economists' estimates, will increase employment. There is also this gradual departure from the additional days of earnings-related security. This has been recommended by the Bank of Finland, for example Lauri Kajanoja, and has also been recommended by the Economic Policy Evaluation Council itself and by President Roope Uusitalo. This is the same in all the other Nordic countries, in other words, we have tried to get rid of such early retirement schemes when it is understood that if someone retires from unemployment, it does not increase the employment of anyone else. In fact, this last means, that we are trying to get away from this extra day's allowance, the government itself is using the same potion. We are now using it a little more courageously and that is why we will have an employment effect during this parliamentary term. Then to Mr Berg's statement that we are undermining the pension rights of those on earnings-related security: yes, we have the choice here that pensions should be earned primarily by working, not by means of transfers of income, by means of life. Let us remember, however, that at the moment those unemployed who are not covered by earnings-related security are part of a weaker pension bracket, and that is how this proposal of ours would create a similar situation between all unemployed people. However, on average, those with earnings-related security are in a better position than those unemployed who are not in earnings-related groups, and their forecasts for pensions are also more favourable. In conclusion, however, I would perhaps draw the point that if you familiarise yourself with our shadow budget, these independent calculations suggest that our shadow budget will not increase income disparities or poverty rates. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u154	Mr President! Most recently, Multala used a metaphor here and said that the budget proposal of the Rinte government actually cuts employment by 5,000 people, so that the slogan has been used very strongly here, that if you had nothing to do, the situation would be better than with such a budget proposal. First of all, one section has been separated from it. In other words, the section that has been separated from it is basic income support and, secondly, unemployment benefit. Then, obviously, the calculation model used by the Ministry of Finance is also used here, the same as that used by the Parliamentary Information Service, and the impact of these measures on employment is positive or negative depending on how it is calculated. In other words, if we start with improving income security, improving unemployment security, because the calculation plan has a certain impact on employment, which would be negative in this respect. Of course, this issue has been taken apart from all other social developments, including the rise in consumer demand, but even more problematic is the fact that it is a question of forecasting and you are presenting it here as a fact: it is a fact for us when one chart gives it. Of course, its main weakness is social, that is, that we start with the fact that we are disciplining the most vulnerable social group and thereby trying to increase employment. We are moving to such a 19th-century service society, where we have the renegades and maids working on almost zero earnings and so on. This is the extreme. You wanted these extremes not to be included in these calculations, but if that goes far enough, then that is the end result. It must be understood that the social democrats — at least I personally — do not want to employ at all costs. We definitely have certain limits on the basis of which employment is being carried out. We cannot go out and chastise the most vulnerable people, unlike this alternative budget of yours, which comes from unemployed people, because their occupational pension cover would not increase their pension cover in the future. They are already the most vulnerable people, and you want them to be old people too, parents when they retire, the most vulnerable and the most vulnerable. Why this? Why do you keep punishing the weakest people in this society? Give them room in this society as well as for you better.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u155	President! I thought it might have been a good idea for me to come back to this original report by the Committee on Finance on this subject at this stage. Now that there has perhaps been some controversy here about whether taxation will be reduced or tightened up, we can say in this government's action that taxation will be reduced by a tax loss of around 166 million for the income tax scale, 269 million for the reduction in labour income, 109 million for the basic deduction, 10 million for the reduction in pension income for central government taxation and 26 million for the reduction in pension income for municipal taxation. However, this is how much we are reducing taxes. And, as I said there, the tightening element there is the solidarity tax which will therefore continue, just as it did during the last term of government — fortunately it was not abolished. That was regulated by the previous government at the time, and it is particularly important to us that this solidarity tax is. There has already been a proposal to delete this too, but at the moment it brings about 100 million tax revenues. When people are constantly wondering where the money is to care for the elderly, where the money is to be spent on education and where the money is to take care of people's health, and when there is now 100 million people somewhere, I wonder that someone sees in such a way that this money is not enough for the common currency of the state, that this too should be taken away and then spent on tax cuts for the rich. I think this is a well-founded and balanced proposal in this regard, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u157	Mr President! I will briefly comment on what Mr Kiljunen said about these different calculation methods when it comes to trying to assess the impact of changes in social security. He gave the impression that it could simply choose some calculation methods. It is true, Mr Kiljunen, that the methods used to calculate are based on empirical estimates, i.e. statistical and econometric studies of how the level of social security and its changes affect people's behaviour in the labour market. However, when you talk about these most vulnerable people, it is good to remember that the so-called unemployment pension pipeline has, in other words, the benefit of the additional days of earnings-related security is enjoyed by many people who have gone there on a voluntary basis. The Social Democratic representative Suna Kymäläinen here last season told of a friend who had voluntarily gone into gainful security and an unemployment pension line. These have also been well discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs with Mr Lindén. He remembers well what we're talking about here. It is not surprising, therefore, that when the social partners’ researchers have assessed the impact of raising the minimum age for additional days of income security on poverty, on the risk of poverty, it has been found that nothing has happened. Because when this so-called unemployment pipeline is no longer available, people tend to work longer. Therefore, such an increase in the threshold will not increase poverty, it will increase employment, and that is why, in our alternative budget, this reformer is now being used a little more courageously than in the government's proposal. Even the government correctly proposes and evaluates the impact on employment through the same methods that have been criticised in this Chamber but used by the economic research community. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u158	Mr President! Firstly, in this context, the government will reduce taxation more fairly than the coalition does. It will reduce taxation specifically from those on low and middle incomes and thereby strengthen the purchasing power and well-being of people on low and middle incomes. On the other hand, the total would reduce earned income taxes by EUR 800 million more than the government, i.e. a total of approximately EUR 1 billion. This reduction in debt would be financed by an increase of EUR 433 million in consumption taxes, as your alternative budget states, so that the poor would pay significantly more than those on better incomes. In addition to this, when you said here, among other things, about these employment effects, about where you want to target cuts, you yourself said that you would come specifically to step up earnings-related unemployment security, the effect of which is that the longer the person is unemployed, the more you would cut his unemployment benefit. This would, for example, lead the long-term unemployed to receive income support. While you were still adding to the living expenses of income support, this would lead these people into an increasingly difficult situation in their lives. In addition to this, you are increasing the return of earnings-related days, the abolition of the unemployment pipeline, as you said, the reform of the general housing allowance, you are making an adjustment, and you are also freezing housing allowance to the level of 2019, which would result in a further deterioration in the situation of those people who depend on social security, who would also need housing allowance. There is a clear difference here when we look at this whole, how you would target people's taxes and incomes and earned income. Above all, you would weaken the situation of the most vulnerable people and make Finland more poverty.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u160	Madam President! First of all, I would like to take Mrs Kiljunen's speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u163	Do we want to have a very short debate on this?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u164	Thank you, Mr President. As President-in-Office of the Section, I would like to say that this is the basis of this section, which has been approved by the Committee on Finance and which is being discussed here. This is the basis for the fact that taxation is being reduced by the actions of this government and the parafiscal charges that are now rising are due to the factors that are already the result of the last term of government, all of which are linked to the Competitiveness Pact. This is a fact. It's right here. I hope, Mr President, that we can at last stop arguing about what is written in this report.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u165	Mr President! Mr Viitanen referred here to a speech in which I pointed out that the non-solidarity tax on the highest income categories should be abolished. You said that this non-solidarity tax should be maintained because its tax revenue is so important. Well, according to the government program, you are committed to informed decision-making. As I clearly stated earlier, according to a study by the University of Lund, at the highest tax rates in Finland, the self-financing rate of the imputed tax reduction is 123 per cent, and this means in Finnish that, in practice, in a static calculation, a EUR 10 million reduction in the solidarity tax for the highest income categories would result in an increase of EUR 12.3 million in tax revenue after the dynamic effects. So by reducing taxes, EUR 2.3 million will increase tax revenue on education, health care, good things. So, Mr Viitanen, this would bring more tax revenue, not less.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u174	Mr President! The Finnish Social Democrats are clearly in trouble, at least when compared to these Swedish Social Democrats and the assembly. After all, this is a serious attack on us from the point of view that the knowledge, research and, above all, what Vartiainen used the term 'empirical estimations' are the ones that are now going to kill our argument. I am well aware that economists and their empirical models think they have reached absolute truth. These are other religions that likewise imagine that they have that truth under control. I would like to remind you of Mr Vartia: as an economist, you know very well that how those empirical estimations, econometric models are made, which are the parameters chosen, is very decisive and very decisive, with what weight factor is analysed and so on. This is a package on which you can conclude, as you have said, ‘we will be more courageous in our determination to reach this conclusion’. This is a political debate that we are holding here. We can build these estimation models, and the result depends quite decisively on how these weighting factors are made and what parameters are decisive there. That is the end result, and you know it as an economist as well as the one who signed it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u175	Mr President! Yes, all decision-making should be based on researched information. Now that we have mentioned an alternative budget for the Coalition Party and that it would not increase the low income rate, on the basis of the data that has been studied in that calculation service of the Parliament, its impact on permanent legislation, i.e. this year's legislation, is zero, but in relation to this new government budget, the impact on low income is plus 0.4, i.e. around 21,000 people — I calculated this myself — given that the employment flexibility is around 0.25. In other words, these employment effects have been taken into account. Although we were sent a notice from the Assembly Office that the option of the Assembly would not increase, would increase low incomes, it had not been able to look at the correct figure, had been considered in relation to this permanent legislation and not to the budget for the coming year. In fact, when you look at the three lowest income deciles, there are 300,000 households here as losers in the three lowest income deciles. In relation to this option of ours, because we take advantage of the reduction in pension income, the reduction in earnings and similar deductions, we do not have these losers here at all. When much has been said here that there are losers, the government’s proposal is less than 14500 years’ income and more than 25,000 years’ income, then, in fact, four revenue deciles are about to take place, which means that quite a large number are winners here. I do not know — in my opinion, if the good alternatives put forward by both the government and us in the opposition, which were to increase the reduction in earnings by 100 million and increase the reduction in pension income by 50 million, were to be combined, then it would be quite good legislation. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u176	Mr President! Once again, on the part of the Assembly, there was the message that you justified by saying that you have researched the fact that cutting unemployment benefit will improve employment — if I understood your message correctly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u185	Madam President! I would like to begin by saying to Mr Kiljune that he has just spoken,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u190	Mr President! Now that Mr Marttinen has already asked a few times about the government's efforts to promote employment and a little referred to the fact that the wage subsidy is the only one, we will now read a few of them through here, if it will ease the pain at this stage. In other words, the government is proposing a reduction in income tax in accordance with the government programme for low and medium-income earners, the government is launching regional municipal trials in employment services, the wage subsidy, as you said, will be reformed and its use in companies will be significantly increased. From the beginning of 2020, rapid steps will be taken to remove bottlenecks and increase the use of pay support, a recruitment aid trial will be launched to promote the rapid employment of the unemployed. Unemployment security and services for the unemployed and job search obligations will be renewed to support the reduction of periods of unemployment, which has also been seen as a good thing in the Nordic countries. The possibility of transferring the majority of the unemployment security tasks of the Employment and Economic Development Offices to the Social Insurance Institution and unemployment funds will be examined, a work capacity programme for part-time workers will be implemented to facilitate their employment. Introduce a linear model for part-time invalidity pensions to improve incentives to work on part-time disability pension. The Government prepares a mental health strategy that sees mental health as a capital, safeguards mental health rights and services. In autumn 2019, the Government will submit a proposal to increase the minimum age of the supplementary daily allowance for unemployment benefit. In autumn 2019, the Government will present a proposal to repeal the active model, which we will probably be discussing today. In a timely manner, OKM and TEM will prepare proposals to enable shorter training packages to support those in work and those at risk of unemployment. — I am now about halfway through, but will we go to the end or will we end this debate at some point? So the list exists, paragraph 25, what has been said, but if necessary, I can pass this on to Mr Marttinen, and he can read through the rest of it, on the other side. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u192	We will discuss the income tax scale so that if we were to focus a little more on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u193	Mr President! Representative Berg gave a long list of government employment measures. When you submit the list, please provide independent economists with estimates of the impact on employment of these activities. We're looking into it with interest. Mr Kiljunen's question on the impact of unemployment protection on unemployment: it is one of the most diverse studies in economics, and there is now a strong consensus among researchers that it affects the unemployment rate. That does not mean, Mr Kimmo Kiljunen, that it would have been claimed that an absolute truth had been found. Of course, all those estimates are uncertain, but we do have some strong ideas about their sign and that point estimate. And when Sweden is appealed to, it is worth looking at the whole thing. Swedish social security and unemployment security are stricter and more binding than ours. There is no general commitment of collective agreements on the labour market, there is a more liberal labour market. There housing allowance is much smaller. Income support is granted on much more stringent grounds. They're using more pay support. It is particularly important for those who are able to work in part, but the importance of pay support in this overall employment is limited, and the proposals that the Rinte government has now made to increase the pay subsidy state, for example, in its opinion to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy of the Finnish Labour Institute, that they are an ineffective tool, and in addition to that, the increase in their budget is now so limited that it will hardly affect this whole more than a few thousand additional employees. We would very much like to continue to deal with the government's employment proposals when they come and when they really have impact assessments that we can address. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u194	Madam President! Taxes always evoke feelings, as has been said today in this hearing. It is a value choice that the taxation of middle-income and good-income earners is not facilitated at the expense of low-income earners. Last season, employment was well under way, and now it is increasingly challenging, but it needs to be continued. The Centre has therefore proposed a number of things as a basis for further working. We heard Mr Berg's list of current activities. It is important that we do not undermine the cost-competitiveness that was built up during the last period. It is important that we prepare a model that solves this problem of alignment. However, we have a job shortage across the country and action needs to be taken to make it easier for us to go to new regions in pursuit of work. The employment of people capable of part-time work with tailor-made support is an important issue, as is labour shortages caused by immigration at work, related solutions, but also investment in education, product development, research and the dismantling of barriers to investment. This requires the whole school system, and the continuous learning reform team is working hard to find specific, conversion and further training for different levels of education in order to get people to work. Young people also need to be involved. The flexibility of working life and the effort to be able to cope also have an impact on the lengthening of working careers. My parents still work part-time even though they're over 80 years old. It will bring meaning to them in life. In other words, all the efforts to keep working are important to us, and all the investments in entrepreneurship, because it will bring us more work. I do think that if we are to have this high employment rate, we need good proposals from all parties, sensible proposals. Just as we have today taken a unanimous decision on subsidies for veterans, so employment measures should also be such a joint project.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u195	Mr President! In this debate, Mr Lindén has already pointed out a few times that this income tax as such is not of enormous importance for the whole, but of greater importance for these other forms of taxation, which is quite true. But, of course, for employment, employees and pensioners, income tax is extremely important, and that is why it is important to talk about all these things in this context, and here we are dealing with both the income tax scale and the deductions from the Income Tax Act, and they are important. Much has now been said about pay support in this debate. When the Committee on Budgets dealt with the budgetary plan in this October to November, I asked more or less all the experts, economists and representatives of interest groups about the importance of pay subsidies in terms of employment and taxation. There were perhaps about twenty of them, to whom I asked, and almost everyone replied that the importance of the pay subsidy was very limited. Some say that it even marginalises permanent jobs so that it may be negative in some respects, but it was hardly anyone who said that it would be the answer to employment problems or unemployment problems. It is more social policy because it is particularly suitable for those who are able to work part-time. Well, I think that was very clear. However, the government is also very strongly building its policies on wage support on the private side, and that is questionable: will expenditure only come without a real long-term improvement in employment. Mr President! Minister Harakka has set up eight working groups, which have been working for a few months now, and yesterday I received reliable information that there has been little progress in those working groups. There are workers’ organisations and employers’ organisations opposite each other’s presentations to knock them out. Of course, this will not bring results. We're already in December. There's nothing left to do this year, and the government fell. Then, in March, we should have the billboards ready, and then in August's budget debate, the government should have credible decisions that 30,000 jobs will be created. At this rate, when nothing happens, there will also be no improvement in employment. Congressman Berg gave me those lists. Yes, there were many fine pursuits, but they must be made flesh,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u200	Mr President! At least with these prospects, it seems that the employment programme mentioned by Mr Kankaanniemi, which the Finns of Finland have made, does not seem to be turning into meat. That is probably the conclusion we will have to draw. Of course, we do not know how this government crisis will now be resolved. [Ville Vähämäki’s interlude] Mr Marttinen here gave a thorough consideration to the last parliamentary term and stated that the then opposition used the parliamentary information service, and now that the current opposition is using Parliament's information service, the government representatives, the Social Democrats, would feel that the calculations of the information service are not correct — in this way you said. This statement of yours is not true. None of us have ever been able to say that data service calculations are not important. They're worth using. We were merely asking what are the models that have been calculated there, what is calculated, what is measured at all and how it is measured. This is what we are now considering, what is the credibility of the predictions — see, because it is a fact that the forecast is not a fact, and you are here now using this forecast of the estimation model as a fact of what is going on here in this debate. This is the only thing we want to deal with. You can't go down this road.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u201	Madam President! This is the representative. Mr Kiljunen has just given a wise thought to the speech I have made, and I would really like to clarify what I have said. So I wondered out loud how, in your opinion, the calculations of the information service now appear as if in another light, even though so much has been used in the past. Of course it is, and I certainly do not deny that when impact assessments are made, they are always imperfect, of course. There are always some assumptions on which they are made. But if this house should, however, make its own decisions based on researched data, impact assessments, and once the calculations of the parliamentary information service have been used in the past — they make their own calculations of alternative budgets directly, and they are available to all of us — I think it is quite relevant to bring them up at this point. At the very end, I would like to say to Mrs Berg: Thank you for this reading on the government's employment objectives. I am familiar with your list of 25 points. The only problem is that, apart from today's proposal to increase the minimum age of the pension line, which has been calculated with an employment impact, can you mention the estimated employment impact of this list in paragraph 25? I don't think there are any. And that, Madam President, is the central problem of this government's economic and employment policy. There are all kinds of lists, there are promises that things will be prepared and brought to our attention, but they will not be seen, and there is no assessment of what they really mean. Of course, if this is the case, for example, the Ministry of Finance has been able to evaluate and calculate some impact assessments of your actions, then we are certainly interested in seeing them, and I am always prepared to change and correct my position when this government makes the right decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u202	Mr President! Mr Marttinen answered his own question about why those calculations are not enough. They are not enough because only a very small part, a very small part, of the issues affecting employment can be calculated exactly, and if we concentrate only on this marginal part of the issues affecting employment, then we are making a bad policy. There is nothing wrong with these calculations, but as with all other calculations, they require representatives and decision-makers to be able to read them and put them in the right context.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u205	Madam President! I think that this debate would be quite complete in a number of respects, but I would like to take one example, which relates, among other things, to Mr Vartiainen's speech earlier when he compared the Nordic countries with one another. Of course, we have a lot of different data, and we find different figures that we can use in comparisons. But what I am about to tell you is that we were with the Committee on Social Affairs and Health — including Mr Vartiainen — just this autumn to get to know the health services of the Danish social security system and other current issues. There, at a joint event, we were shown such a set of four important chapters. Last year in Finland, the unemployment rate was 7 per cent and Finns who worked on average worked 30 hours a week. In Denmark, the unemployment rate was lower, it was 5 per cent, but Danes worked on average 27 hours a week. From these four figures it can be concluded that the proportion of the labour force employed in Finland, i.e. 93 per cent of the labour force — this is a different figure than the employment rate — I am talking about the labour force, which includes those who are employed and who are unemployed — did more hours of work as a whole than was done in Denmark. There, then, these hours are divided differently between people in work. I am not going to take a position here on which is better and which is worse, but this shows that there are different models in different countries and that is why it is difficult to present these comparisons — just as Mr Kontula has just dealt with how difficult it is to present such forecasts.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u206	Mr President! I would like to make a few remarks about wage support as a means of employment. Finns use pay subsidies five times less than Swedes. Finnish entrepreneurs are familiar with the form of pay subsidies, but the model is often too bureaucratic, which is related to applying for, paying and working with them. Many companies consider applying for pay subsidies to be burdensome compared to the benefits it brings. Moreover, the company does not decide whether it is subsidised or not, but whether they need an employee and find a suitable employee. If wage support is already in use, how has the government intended to get entrepreneurs to use it even more? Last August, employment support was still unused by more than EUR 150 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u207	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 14/2019 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The report is presented by the chairman of the committee, Mr Vehviläinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u208	Mr President! Report 15/2019 by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health from the Parliament deals with the Government's proposal to repeal the obligations and cuttings contained in the so-called active model of unemployment security. The changes are expected to enter into force at the beginning of next year. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health supports the abolition of the operating cuts and obligations of the active model. As a result of the proposed changes, the maintenance of a normal rate of unemployment benefit will no longer require that the recipient of unemployment benefit, as required by the model, is employed in paid employment or in business activities, or that he participates in employment-promoting services or employment support activities for at least five days. In other respects, the obligations of jobseekers receiving unemployment benefits remain unchanged, i.e. the unemployed jobseeker must continue to actively seek employment and training and participate in employment-promoting services and measures. Parliament already required changes to the active model when it agreed that the effects of the reform should be closely monitored and, if necessary, extended the means by which the activity condition can be met if the proposed means are not sufficient to prevent an active job seeker or a job seeker seeking access to the service from being given a reduced benefit. The main objective of the model has been to increase employment by encouraging unemployed job seekers to become active and self-employed in job-seeking throughout the period of unemployment. In the Government's proposal on the active model, the model was estimated to increase employment by between 5000 and 12,000 person-years. In its opinion, the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities has discussed extensively the impact of the active model on the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. The impact of the model has been studied during its validity in three different research projects. According to the VATT study, it is difficult to distinguish the impact of the active model on employment from the effects of good economic conditions and therefore the impact on employment cannot be reliably assessed. Other possible employment-related reforms were also carried out during the active model. In the absence of an appropriate control group, it is difficult to distinguish the effect of the active model from other factors. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health, like the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, draws attention to the fact that, according to the report, the active model may have increased employment and the end of unemployment among the recipients of income security. By contrast, among those receiving basic daily allowance and labour market support, growth was mainly seen in employment during unemployment. The increase in employment is also partly related to the impact of the improvement in the employment situation. In the context of the active model, an annual appropriation of EUR 25 million was added to the supply of employment services. The Committee welcomes the increase in the number of services provided to the unemployed and the increase in participation in services, both in earnings-related daily allowance and in basic daily allowance and in labour market support. Participation in services increased especially in the oldest age groups where employment in the open labour market is less common. On the other hand, among those receiving earnings-related daily allowance, participation in short-term services that meet the requirements of the active model increased particularly. The provision of short training periods also increased during the active model, which has contributed to the degree of participation in services. The rate of participation in services may also have been influenced by other labour administration reforms during the active model, such as periodic interviews and pilot projects in different regions. According to the study, based on the responses to the survey and interview for experts and supervisors of the TE Offices, the active model is not considered to be an appropriate means of promoting employment in labour policy terms. Half of the respondents felt that the active model could not be used to promote employment, as it encourages activity based not on customer needs, motivation or labour policy relevance, but on fulfilling the conditions of the active model. Like the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health draws attention to the fact that the impact assessment of the active model has not examined the impact of the model on the well-being and working capacity of the unemployed. In 2017 the Committee on Social Affairs and Health considered it important to carry out a follow-up study on the reform and assess the impact of the reform on people's later employment and economic well-being, and to carry out impact assessments for different groups, such as gender, age, educational level, region of residence and duration of unemployment. It is clear from surveys and statistics that the active model has weakened the income security of the unemployed. The Committee draws attention to the fact that, on the basis of the study, unemployment benefit was particularly often reduced from older job seekers in the labour market and from those receiving unemployment benefit from additional days of unemployment allowance. The active model also appears to have been targeted particularly at men whose unemployment benefits were reduced more often than women because of the active model. However, no regional differences were identified in the study. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers it problematic for the whole of the social security system and for the incentive of the system that the reduction of the primary benefit as a result of the active model has increased the need for last resort income support. Income support dependency increases the threshold for employment and often leads to longer unemployment. The committee notes that there has been strong criticism of the active model and that it has been perceived as difficult and unfair. In its opinion, the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities highlights the negative effects of activation measures, particularly on the self-confidence and appreciation of men. In conclusion, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health notes that the study has not reliably demonstrated that the active model has increased employment, which has been a key objective of the model. However, the active model has particularly weakened the level of unemployment security for hard-to-work groups, increased the need for income support and increased the experience of unfairness in the unemployment security system. According to the proposal, the abolition of the active model will increase unemployment security expenditure by an estimated EUR 51.1 million. Expenditure on housing allowance and income support is estimated to decrease by EUR 12 million. The abolition of the active model thus increases the total expenditure on public finances by an estimated EUR 39 million, of which the central government accounts for EUR 13.7 million, the municipalities' share of EUR 10.2 million and the employment fund's share of EUR 15.2 million. The abolition of the active model will improve the income security of unemployed beneficiaries. A beneficiary of labour market support and basic daily allowance who would not meet the conditions of the active model will increase the benefit without any increase of approximately EUR 32.40 per month. If you receive earnings-related daily allowance, the benefit increases by an average of approximately EUR 65 per month without any increments. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health agrees with the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities that measures, incentives and employment-supporting services are needed to support the active participation of unemployed jobseekers. The abolition of the active model does not remove the obligation for job seekers to actively seek employment and to participate in employment-promoting services. The Committee considers it necessary that the additional EUR 25 million per year for employment services be maintained in the context of the active model. Labour services should be developed more individually and in line with the needs and needs of the various unemployed groups. The Committee welcomes the fact that, even after the abolition of the active model, the responsibility for unemployment benefit will remain with us in five days. The Committee notes that the government has committed itself to raising the employment rate to 75% in its programme. A ministerial working group with sub-groups has been set up to promote employment. The Committee considers it important that, in addition to the development of employment support services, the unemployment benefit system should be developed on a long-term basis in order to reduce potential incentive problems, increase the clarity and comprehensibility of the system and reduce dependency on income support. The Committee believes that the reform of the service system and social security must pay particular attention to the development of employment for people with disabilities and hard-to-work and of a system of income security that meets their needs. The committee's report contains an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u209	And then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u210	Madam President! Activation as such is not a bad thing in general, the fact that we are being made to do things that involve us and involve us, but what I myself have been very close to familiarising myself with this active model in Kainuu, I had to find out that unfortunately the active model acted as a veritable lax for those who were already well beyond the reach of the labour market, in a difficult economic situation, in a basic daily allowance, in labour market support or in some other or other difficult situation due to health or the general situation in life. There was particular concern that inequalities were seen, especially in the case of older unemployed people. In this model, I myself wonder that some kind of protection programme for an ageing man and woman should be set up in Finland on the labour market, so that they have equal, equal access to employment even after dismissals or other changes in the labour market. What was wrong with this model, in my opinion, is whether people are genuinely being activated on issues that benefit the development of their skills, on issues that make a tangible contribution to their employment, or whether the model is built more to cut unemployment benefit like a mechanical cutter and ignores people's individual situations. Of course, we must be pleased that the Finnish media also noticed the impact of this active model when the citizens turned it into a citizens' initiative and brought it up properly. It had already been discussed here in Parliament between political parties, but it did not receive very much public attention in this connection. What I think is important now that the so-called active cutter of the active model, the reduction in unemployment security, is withdrawn: we need to ensure that our labour market policies are motivated, meet the needs of our customers, are appropriate and not just to meet a specific condition, but that people have a genuine opportunity to respond to the challenges of today's working life and to be involved. Which is why I was talking about older men, older women in Kainuu: it is a very important question, especially in the case of men. There are still people who have no means of transport there. We are talking here about our own car, its use, the price of fuel, but not all people today even have the car that can reach a longer distance to work, or there is not at all the capacity to do so. Despite the fact that we have had models of Taipale and Andersson to guide various activities, so that unemployment cards, unemployment statistics, humanely eliminate people who do not normally belong there in terms of their ability to work and their health, we still have, I say, in the statistics there, tables adorning thousands of people who have been found to be incapacitated on several occasions by doctors in both public and private health care. Unfortunately, age issues come against these many times, and especially if you are incapacitated under the age of 60, you want to be very difficult to retire today, even if you have all the basics. I believe that we can find a great deal of employment-related measures which positively encourage people to take the job aside. I hope that we will have the courage to look at a variety of different solutions, both in terms of education and then in terms of the role played by the rules of working life, but not in terms of constructively doing so, in some way our starting point is to stick or whip people up by building systems that are designed to serve the system, but in fact to improve human potential. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u211	Madam President! The problems of the active model were obvious even when the proposal was brought to Parliament's attention last season. Even in the preparation of the model, the expert opinions questioned the effectiveness of the model. Now we are even closer to the day when this unfairly-treated active model of the unemployed is removed and employment will continue to be managed by supporting the unemployed rather than the stick. Mr President! Based on the final report of the State Economic Research Centre for the Active Model (VATT), it is challenging to draw conclusions on the employment impact of the model based on research data. According to statistics, the active model has increased the participation of the unemployed in employment-promoting, particularly short service periods. However, it is difficult to say whether more active participation in these services has led to any increase in employment. It is worth noting that active labour market policies can continue to maintain a high level of participation in employment-friendly services even after dismantling the active model, for example through periodic interviews with the unemployed, the inclusion of these services in employment plans and the obligation to involve the beneficiaries of unemployment benefit. Mr President! During the period of validity of the active model, unemployment benefit has been reduced by more than one third on average. On the basis of statistics on the impact of the active model, the model has reduced unemployment benefit, in particular for older people and/or those who have been unemployed for a long time. In some cases, unemployment benefits appear to have been reduced, in particular from those receiving unemployment benefits such as the long-term unemployed receiving labour market support and the long-term unemployed receiving earnings-related allowance from the so-called additional days. According to a survey of the staff of the VATTI TE Offices, the active model is not able to respond to the motivation, needs and conditions of different job seekers. Therefore, the model was considered to be unequal, unfair and targeted at the wrong customer groups. The active model was seen to encourage the wrong kind of activity, which is not based on customer needs, motivation or labour policy relevance. In fact, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health stated in its report that it has not been possible to reliably demonstrate that the active model has increased employment, which has been the main objective of the model. However, the active model has particularly weakened the level of unemployment security for hard-to-work groups, increased the need for income support and increased the experience of unfairness in the unemployment security system. Madam President! The dismantling of the active model is about the livelihood and fair treatment of unemployed people. The main injustice of the model has been that the livelihoods of unemployed people can be reduced for reasons beyond their own control. It is very good that the cutter and the obligations of the active model of unemployment security are now being abolished. I would like to thank the government warmly for getting rid of this unfairly-treated active model right at the turn of the year and for the fact that the government's employment measures will continue to be more supportive and supportive of the unemployed rather than using the stick.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u212	Mr President! Finland is in a difficult situation. Our public finances are not balanced, unemployment rates are high, and at the same time we are suffering from labour shortages. Ensuring our welfare society requires a significant increase in employment. In recent years, our level of unemployment has been closer to southern Europe than to other Nordic countries, and this is an unsustainable situation for our welfare society. We should create at least 60,000 new jobs so that, on the one hand, we can achieve a balanced career in our public finances and, on the other hand, work for people and, on the other hand, increase well-being. We must also get jobs and workers to meet. The direction of the government's employment policy has been the opposite. According to the calculations of the independent parliamentary information service, the government's budget proposal would reduce employment by at least 5,000 persons. We simply cannot afford this. The active model has raised a great deal of debate. According to expert opinions received by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, the active model has increased the number of unemployed people receiving earnings-related benefits in employment services and increased their activity. This has been studied by the best economic and employment policy experts in our country. Although it has not been possible to demonstrate direct employment effects due to a problematic research design, according to the report of the study group led by Professor Roope Uusitalo, the active model has activated the unemployed, especially with earnings-related unemployment benefit. Their unemployment time has decreased and their participation in active measures has increased. Research results and expert opinions have shown that the impact of the active model has been best for those unemployed who have been in the early stages of their unemployment period. Despite its promises, the government has not put forward any compensatory measures in place to achieve similar effects. However, the removal of the active model requires that active employment policies continue and that the benefits of the active model be achieved through other means. Negative effects have mainly hit the long-term unemployed, whose activity has not increased despite the effects of the cutter. In view of these considerations, it is justified that more diverse means are sought to implement the obligations of unemployment security and that no one is left alone. It would be good to ensure that everyone gets the help and support they need. The Finnish employment debate sometimes refers to the Danish model. This is no wonder, because Denmark has a regular higher employment rate than us. The Danish labour market is based on a strong and flexible culture of agreement, a unique system of redundancy and unemployment security and quality employment services. Excellent employment services are a key element of Denmark's success. In Denmark, the unemployed get access to employment services as soon as unemployment begins and meet employees of the employment service frequently and regularly. Special attention will be paid to the start of the unemployment period. This is to avoid long periods of unemployment. The system aims at the employment of the unemployed as soon as possible and offers individual and planned support. The unemployment funds are actively involved in the provision of employment services alongside the employment authorities and work closely together. However, Denmark's success is not only based on the quality of services provided to the unemployed. The Danish model requires active participation and job search from the unemployed. It is clear that employment services need to be developed and improved in Finland. The unemployed are too often left alone in our system and do not receive the support they need to promote their employment. However, as we can see from the Danish example, high-quality employment services need to be active in many directions. These complement each other and create sufficient conditions to facilitate the position of the unemployed and increase employment. Mr President! The creation of 60,000 new jobs is a demanding task that requires major reforms. This can be achieved if there is sufficient political will. However, the trend is wrong when existing employment measures are dismantled without any plan for compensatory measures. There are ways of increasing employment, and these means must be put in place.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u213	Mr President! We have an objection to this report, in which we state that it would have been wise to return these days of unemployment to seven days, and that the government does not follow its own programme, which said that the obligations of the active model will be lifted once the corresponding measures to increase employment have been put forward. After all, that change in the time frame was the idea of one of the key architects of this active model, former Party Secretary Ralf Sundi of the Left Alliance, and now, if the active model were to be dismantled, then of course it would be natural to return those qualifying days to seven days, so that we do not have less employment than we had before the whole model was laid down. But, more broadly, this active model debate is about the slow awakening of Finnish society to this basic dilemma of the funding of the Nordic welfare state: on the one hand, when we have good social protection and, on the other hand, when our population is ageing, we must necessarily increase the employment rate. Economics research shows quite clearly that incentives to work must then be influenced. Well, it can be influenced either by a reduction in income tax, a reduction in social security or by an increase in different obligations and controls in the use of social security. All these means are used in other Nordic countries, where they are no longer so naively condemned as in the debate in this Chamber. In principle, Finland has always had a theoretical obligation to apply for employment when unemployment benefit is provided. Mrs Kyllönen and many others have said that the unemployed will still have an obligation to actively seek employment. This has always been theoretically the case, but in practice it has not been very much cared about. And now, justifiable fear is that we are going back to the old world where unemployment can continue for how long and nothing is really being cared for. Mr Kyllönen said very well that activation is not in itself a bad thing. But if you look at a study with a cold and reasonable eye on what is known about activation measures and various labour policy measures in different countries, Mr President, and especially in the Nordic countries, these effectiveness analyses actually show that most activation measures are of little relevance to the likelihood of employment. That is an unfortunate fact. This has been studied in the Nordic countries since the 1990s and it has been found quite similar in different countries that it is extremely difficult to come up with active labour market measures that would actually increase the likelihood of employment after the end of those measures. But when researchers have discovered this little sad fact, they have also found that many of these measures increase the likelihood of employment even before they begin. How can this be explained? Well, this is explained by human nature and the rational idea that many of the measures are, however, such that people seek hard work to avoid those measures because they take away people's leisure time, and that is why they try to avoid them and then seek a little more new jobs and seize work opportunities. It is this so-called deterrent effect, which is very well verified in empirical research. In particular, it is a pity that this active model finally took the form it received, i.e. it was also applied to those with unemployment allowance and labour market support. It had been the original idea of the officials that it would have been applied only to earnings-related unemployment benefit, and if it had been, then we would have avoided the many unnecessary sufferings and poverty problems that arose from the application of the active model to these long-term unemployed people with a weaker labour market status. On the other hand, in the context of income protection, the active model would be quite justified, in particular because it is likely to have reduced the attractiveness of the so-called unemployment pension scheme. It also became telephone calls to me in the unemployment pension pipeline, i.e. those on these so-called extra days, who said that ‘what a miracle,I thought I was on a pension’, even though the principle wasunemployed. In other words, it would have been highly justified in terms of earnings-related security. This is what officials and the government wanted in the first place, but it was the social partners who wanted to extend this. In other words, EK, SAK, STTK, Akava wanted to extend it to these more difficult people in the labour market. This raises the general question as to whether it is worth sticking to this idea, which, unfortunately, also seems to exist in the government of the Ringe and your left-wing centre, some sort of sacred stoneboard of Moses, that labour market organisations should be allowed to set the direction of labour policy and employment policies and exercise the right of veto on them. This is reflected, for example, in the fact that you have now chosen no more to intervene in these additional days than in this one year of age limit. When I asked the Minister for Social Affairs, Mr. Pekos, he was able to answer only that he wanted to respect the agreements of these parts. But I am absolutely convinced that if you, the left-wing government, want to get any closer to this objective, then you will not be able to do so if you persist in holding on to the fact that organisations are allowed to decide and determine and exercise the right of veto in relation to Finnish employment policy. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u214	Mr President! I have tried to use rather moderate and extraordinarily factual speeches here in Parliament, and the numbers have also become quite much used, but I am now more involved in this debate on a value basis. Of course, these values do not conflict with the facts, but I would like to emphasise here some principles that I have found difficult to accept. Good speeches have been used in the early part of the debate, which have strongly demonstrated that this active model did not work, and it is excellent that the government proposal has now been prepared that it should be abandoned. Throughout this debate and during this autumn, I have come across something in this Chamber that I myself dare to sum up in the following form: we Social Democrats and I believe that, more generally, the political left, yes, we hate unemployment, but the coalition seems to hate the unemployed. In other words, this very strong snuggling of the unemployed and tackling such benefits very forcefully — as Mr Vartiainen has just said in his speech, for example, about the deterrent effects and others — is something that I find difficult to accept or, in fact, unacceptable. I have been in a responsible position on the municipal side, as the health director of the city of Pori, when Finland plunged into a deep recession in the 1990s. Unemployment rose from the export industry in a living coastal town to 30 per cent, in some parts of the city to 50 per cent. People fought for survival, and in some other kind of society it could have led to far more serious events than it led to in Finland. At the time, we had different forms of compulsory employment, for example after 500 days of earnings-related daily allowance, the municipality was forced to arrange for six months of work for people to keep society together. Since then, we got out of this recession. I simply do not understand the cynical concept of the human being who assumes that people are their own laziness, as if their nasties or evils are unemployed, do not bother to go to work and get them to work only by means of various sticks and other such means, such as the abolition of entitlement to earnings-related unemployment allowance or the reduction of unemployment allowance for the most vulnerable. — That is what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u215	Mr President! It's such a thing that it's high time, in accordance with the government program, to bury an active model, and I don't think a lot of people are going to miss it. It is time to bring history to the fore that failure to fulfil the conditions for an active model would lead to a reduction of 4.65% in unemployment benefit. What is important is that the conditions for receiving benefits in receipt of unemployment benefit remain unchanged. It goes without saying that an unemployed job seeker must continue to actively seek employment and training and participate in employment-promoting services and measures. However, this is not the place to give the stick, and I believe that encouragement will have a better effect on the outcome. The fact is that the study has not been able to reliably demonstrate that the active model has increased employment, which has been the main objective of the model. However, the active model has particularly weakened the level of unemployment security for hard-to-work groups, increased the need for income support and increased the experience of unfairness in the unemployment security system. A survey was conducted for experts and supervisors at TE Offices, and the results show that the model has increased the experience of injustice not only in those customers who are less qualified to activate themselves as required, but also in those capable and willing to work who are actively seeking work but whose job-seeking activity is not counted as fulfilling the requirements of the model. Based on surveys and statistics, it is clear that the active model has weakened the income security of the unemployed. When the active model is overturned, the opposite will happen. A beneficiary of labour market support and basic daily allowance who would not meet the conditions of the active model will increase the benefit without any increase of approximately EUR 32.40 per month. The benefit receiving earnings-related daily allowance also increases by an average of approximately EUR 65 per month without any increases. Mr President! Instead of services aimed at fulfilling the conditions of the active model, employment services should be developed to be more individualised, tailored to the needs of different groups of the unemployed and sufficient. What is important is that the future government is able to continue work quickly, as outlined in the Government Programme, with a view to raising the employment rate to 75%. The reform of the service system and social security needs to pay particular attention to promoting the employment of people with part-time and hard-to-work skills and to building a livelihood system that meets their needs. Untying the active model in the case of the livelihood and fair treatment of unemployed people. The main injustice of the model has been that it has been possible to cut the income of unemployed people for reasons beyond their own control. It is very good that the cutter and the obligations of the active model of unemployment security should be abolished.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u216	Mr President! Giving up an active model is an excellent decision in every respect. There is nothing regrettable about that. But now that we have praised it, we should see what we do next. I have five observations here regarding the next steps. First of all, even after the active model, we still have the problem of full-time job seekers, which was quite concrete in connection with the active model. So we have thousands of people who are undisputedly unable to work, still unemployed job seekers because our sickness allowance is only granted for a certain period of time. Not all those who are out of sick days will then receive other basic security benefits. This is a big problem because people do not understand that if they have a medical certificate that they are incapacitated, that is why they should crucify at the Kela application that they are applying for a full - time job when it is practically fooling. It is difficult to explain to people that this is the only way in our illogical system to obtain the basic security they obviously need for living. It is also terribly unfair. It seems unreasonable that we may have a person in hospice care and yet, in order to get that little basic security, he must register as an unemployed job seeker, even as a full-time job seeker. In other words, we should quickly, preferably at the very beginning of the Social Committee, find a solution to how people who have no doubt that they are unable to work would be able to benefit from a benefit that would not be affected by the compulsory nature of labour market policies. Another problem that emerged in connection with this active model is the problem of impact assessments. For months now, we have had discussions about how the active model worked or did not. Why? Because we do not have the kind of research evidence that could certainly say something in the direction of one or the other. However, we should not think that the impact of the active model is at the same time a debate on the impact of the removal of the active model currently in the presentation. At the same time, three reforms were carried out in the context of the implementation of the active model: the cutter, the reduction of the number of days at the start of unemployment and increased resources for services. Of these, only this cutter is now being removed, so it should not be assumed that what might have happened when the active model came into force will happen as if it were happening again now with this reform. The second point, which makes it terribly difficult to assess the impact of the present reform, is that the impact assessments do not give much thought to the importance of the fact that people have been transferred from basic security to income support, although we know that the passive effect of income support is much stronger than the basic security benefits which do not cut away 100% by the time they work. That brings us to point three: in the future, when major reforms are being carried out, when major controversial reforms are being carried out, when reforms are being carried out that are essentially trying something new, then the impact assessment should be planned at the stage when the reform is being carried out. Researchers should be involved in the architecture on which this study is carried out. The most interesting aspect of the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities was the strengthening of the evidence that, in the case of the long-term unemployed, sticks reduce employment, the likelihood of employment, rather than increase it. This has been the assumption, which has been valid for a long time, but now it seems that not only in Finland but also internationally, this is getting stronger and stronger research evidence. Why would I do that? Because there is an increasing uncertainty about income at the minimum income level, which increases stress and directs its energy to that everyday survival, but also because these canes are generally associated with understating and discriminatory speech, particularly for the long-term unemployed. What is interesting is that, especially for men, this causes feelings of inferiority and a lack of confidence in a system that tends to reduce people's chances of employment, that is to say, eating the trust capital that I have been talking about here today. This is a study which is largely qualitative and which is hardly reflected in the SISU calculations of the information service. I think this is extremely important and should be taken seriously. There is also more and more so-called hard evidence of this. If we are unable to observe and use this kind of information, we will be doing exactly the same kind of mess as this active model has been now, let us be quite clear about it. As a fifth comment, I should like to comment on Vartiainen's argument. As usual, he left immediately after his own speech, regardless of the hall etiquette, but I will now correct that there would be no misinformation. He said here that other sanctions for unemployment benefit have not been taken care of. That is not true. These other sanctions have pushed tens of thousands of people into integrity and significantly hindered their chances of employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u217	Mr President! The abolition of the active model is in line with the employment objectives of the Rinte government, which aim to bring people justice and support them in a tailor-made way, so that they can strengthen their skills and thus find better employment in the future. I would like to start by commenting on Mr Vartiainen's speech when he spoke of the opposition to the Assembly, which he disappointedly said that, now that the active model has been abolished, it would now have been overturned in its entirety. He was very disappointed that the government is now not going to extend the period from five working days to seven, but that the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health have decided that this period of responsibility will be maintained for five days. I am very pleased that this is not the case, but that it will also improve the legal protection of unemployed people. Mr President! The active model was one of the most unjust laws adopted during the last term of government by the majority of the then government. One key problem with this model was that the livelihoods of unemployed people could be cut for reasons beyond their own control. It is therefore very good that the cutter and the obligations of the active model of unemployment security are now finally being abolished. At no time did we Social Democrats support the active model, but we objected and voted in favour of rejecting the model. We also supported the citizens' initiative to abolish the active model. Now that I have read the final report of VATT published in November 2019 and the assessment of its active model, I was able to find that this final report of VATT describes exactly what we were already told by various experts at the time of the discussion of this bill. Despite these doubts and despite the fact that by far the majority of experts said that this bill is unfair and mistreating people, the then government parties did not accept the opinion of the experts. It is now good that this final report by Mr VATTI brings these issues back to the agenda. In other words, on the basis of a survey and an interview survey aimed at the staff of TE Offices, among others, it is concluded that the active model is not capable of responding to the motivation, needs and conditions of different job seekers, which is why it was considered to be unequal, unfair and targeted at the wrong customer groups. The active model was seen to encourage the wrong kind of activity, which is not based on customers’ needs or motivation or labour policy appropriateness. Mr President! The model has also clearly served as a benefit cutter. According to Kela's May survey, on average, 39 per cent of the recipients, 31 per cent of the recipients and 32 per cent of the recipients were cut labour market support per month on the basis of the model during the life of the active model. According to a study carried out by VATT, the active model reduced earnings-related unemployment benefit by 52 per cent of those who were completely unemployed when the model came into force after the first reference period. In the first half of 2018, 36 per cent of the unemployed received reduced earnings-related daily allowance during the second period of the active model. Reductions in small incomes are very significant in the daily lives of the unemployed person. The active model has cut unemployment benefit and has also brought people into the area of income support. As stated in the report, 42% of people receiving labour market support received income support on the basis of an active model and 31% received income support from those receiving a reduced daily allowance. Income support dependency increases the threshold for employment and often leads to longer unemployment. We have been aware of this on the basis of many other studies and studies. Mr President! The model has also been unfair on a regional basis, by sector and by age group. The availability of jobs and employment-promoting services has varied regionally, so the model has jeopardised the equal treatment of citizens, treated unemployed people living in different regions unequally, regardless of the activity of the unemployed person. In other words, when people have not been able to provide services or work in the area, their livelihoods have been cut through an active cutter. The active model has also reduced unemployment benefit, in particular for older beneficiaries — in the case of earnings-related day-earners, this means in particular for beneficiaries over 60 years of age. Of the unemployed over the age of 55, about half of the daily allowance decreased. Mr President! At the end of the day. What Mr Kontula has just said is very important. The model ignores people's ability to function. If a person has an invalidity pension application pending, if he or she is working as a family or family carer or if he or she receives another benefit in addition to the unemployment benefit on the basis of invalidity or disability, the activity is not required. However, unemployed job seekers also have other persons who suffer from illness or disability that reduces their working or functional capacity. A large proportion of the long-term unemployed have significantly reduced their ability to work, especially as a result of mental illness. A significant proportion of the long-term unemployed have a need for care and rehabilitation to improve their working capacity. It is unfair to demand the same level of activity for all, even if some of the unemployed are primarily in need of a study of work and functional capacity and health restrictions and guidance for appropriate care, rehabilitation, work capacity analysis or other services in accordance with the need. Mr President! I am very pleased that this truly unfair active model is finally being removed from people's everyday lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u218	Mr President! The active model was adopted here in Parliament at second reading on 19 December 2017 and then came into force at the turn of the year, and now we are dealing with its funeral, which is then the last day of this year — good. On 19 December 2017, the matter was put to the vote and the proposal was adopted by 103 to 90 votes. The Finnish People's Parliament Group was in favour of rejection as a whole. We did not see this as fair or appropriate. Although we believe that the activation of all of us, including the unemployed, is in itself appropriate, the model was wrong and poorly prepared. At that second reading, 19. On 31 December 2017, the Finns of Finland made a statement which reads as follows: ‘The State requires that the government ensure that the so-called active model does not result inunemployednet loss of residence, age, gender, lack of ability to work or any other cause. “ This statement was rejected by 103 to 89 votes. I understand that this statement is quite well covered by the problems that this proposal contained, as Mrs Anneli Kiljunen has just rightly pointed out. In other words, this resulted in excessive loss of some due to the place of residence, some due to age, some even due to gender or disability, or due to a regional factor, and so on. So it is appropriate that we do not maintain this model, but that we look for a new model of employment, activity. After all, the government now has a strong target of raising the employment rate to 75%, and achieving it by the end of this parliamentary term is a very tough target. So far, the government has not achieved any employment measures at all. This is the first, and this, of course, may lead to a small increase in unemployment rather than a reduction, but it is nevertheless appropriate to reverse this. Mr President! I personally propose that the government should set up a parliamentary working party or even a committee to create long-term employment measures so that the whole of Parliament, all parties, are in the process of adopting these measures and the aim would be long enough to achieve them. I believe that the government is taking some small measures, for example, Mrs Berg listed this list, but, as I said, they have no meat around the bones and do not seem to be coming. Once they have been thrown outside the parliament and outside the government to a large extent, it will not happen, there will be no progress. We need strong, strong measures now. Some may be negative to some, but when they are done together in parliamentary terms, they can have a really significant impact, and then the interests of the whole population are considered. The eight working groups were set up by Minister Harakka, but, indeed, when they are dominated by interest groups, they are not expected to produce results. Mr President! The issue which has not come up at all here and which does not appear to exist in the report is the role of Kela in this reform as well. When this active model was introduced two years ago, at a meeting of Kela’s auditors we learned that it caused a tremendous amount of work at that time, because even a slight change in some benefit affects many other benefits, housing and other benefits. And now, when done the other way around, or the active model is abolished, it causes a change in the position and income of these people who are in the active model, and it causes a great deal of work in Kela. This has not been taken into account today, given that this timetable is so tight. The transfer of income support to Kela recently caused a huge problem that was dismantled by large temporary workers and people suffered. In this regard too, it would have been better to be even more careful when it comes to Kela, despite the fact that I consider it a good thing that this unworkable active model is now being dismantled.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u219	Mr President! We need activity and inclusion, we need activation, support and guidance that takes into account the level of work and skills. Representative Kyllönen brought up the aging men of Kainuu. They're somewhere else, too. Their life situations vary. If a job leaves a worker, it may not be easy to find a new one. Skills and experience are wasted. It feeds on a man and trusts in his own possibilities. It should be remembered that not everyone can leave their house and go after work anywhere. Of course, that opportunity should also be made easier. Care must be taken to ensure that the whole of Finland flourishes, so that new work is also created in a sparsely populated region. The Centre has looked at the active model as a rather practical way of affecting employment over the last period. Studies show that the model has increased people’s activity in seeking work, which it originally sought to achieve. Among those receiving earnings, employment has moved forward, so the effects have not only been negative. Although the studies cannot distinguish the impact of the active model from general economic development, it has certainly had its own positive significance. However, the active model has increased the need for income support. It has been perceived as difficult and unjust. It has not worked in all target groups. It also encouraged some of the wrong kind of activity. It was even felt humiliating. Of course, have these experiences also been influenced by inadequate guidance? In any event, the active model as a whole is not considered to be a functioning employment measure. It is now essential to consider how we will ensure people's activity in the future. Immediate, active job search is a human advantage. We know that, as unemployment continues, it will become more complicated to return to work. A model is being prepared to replace the active model in which the unemployed person's employment plan provides for personal job-seeking obligations and services, such as education and rehabilitation. I warmly support the development of an individual job search model. The greatest potential for employment growth lies in older young people who rely on primary education alone, immigrants, those who are able to work part-time and those who are excluded from the labour market. These young people are especially close to the heart. In all these groups, individual services are of great importance. It is therefore necessary to invest in tailor-made and human-valued guidance services. It is hoped that some 200,000 job seekers will be involved in municipal trials. There are good experiments and experiences from the previous parliamentary term. There is a need for close cooperation between the steering actors in line with the Danish model. The challenge will also be addressed by developing a model of continuous learning. There is a need for a wide range of conversion, completion and precision training. This is the joint task of our entire education system. There is also a need for the third path of education, liberal education, preparatory training and rehabilitation. In the midst of the unemployed, there are clearly people who are unable to work and who are struggling with mental health problems. Appropriate care, rehabilitation measures and individual paths in life are needed. If it is not able to do so, it must be possible to see it more quickly. Life should then be given other meaningful content. Mr President! Work brings meaning and content to a person’s life. We need to develop the unemployment benefit system on a long-term basis, from the point of view of people. Helping all those who are capable of work by encouraging and appreciating them all. That, too, is respect for man.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u220	Mr President! Also at this point, at the first reading of this law, I would like to express my joy at finally putting the active model in the trash. I think it belongs there, and it is quite right that this is what is going to happen here. After all, there was a great deal of talk about this in the run-up to the last election, and when this model was being developed, we remember that a great many people felt that it was at odds with people's sense of justice, that such models were being developed. The citizens were on the move, and thank you for this activity. As a result, this model will be overturned. In fact, Mr President, I think that this debate has been somewhat relegated by the rather lengthy tax debate that we had here earlier on, among other things, the issue of income tax. After all, we also discussed employment and employment measures, and it became clear that I do not believe that, with models such as an active model, employment in itself will be improved, but that this has already been clearly proven through a number of good speeches, including Mrs Kiljunen, who is sitting next to me, spoke about this in a very detailed and expert manner, but that this has been a cut-off model which is now a good thing to get rid of. As far as employment is concerned, I think that this is not the time for a stick, but it is now time for encouragement and for people to find personal solutions and help rather than a stick to be given, and in this respect I am very pleased that Mr Harakka has already presented a whole range of forms of employment in which this stick does not exist, and I also think it is very important and I have thanked the Minister for that a couple of times that he has very often and spectacularly highlighted, for example, age discrimination on the labour market and its intervention and intends to do something about it. It's the kind of thing we have to do about it. It’s not like people in their 50s feel the fear that if you become unemployed, then what if I’m good for anything, even though you’re in the best possible working condition and everything? That is why I think that the measures of this kind, which Mr Harakka has planned and will hopefully continue to plan and implement in the future, are very important and I appreciate them. Similarly, in this debate on taxation, there was also a ban on, among other things, pay subsidies, and I would like to see that it is important for wage subsidies to be increased and developed. We have experts here, such as Mr Hetemäki of the Ministry of Finance, who certainly said this well, knowing that so far the unemployed have been left alone in some way and it is now important that there is a clear increase in the amount of pay subsidies.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u221	Mr President! The draft law on the removal of the active model cutter is definitely one of the best proposals of the already fallen Rinte government, and this is a genuine thanks to the government. True Finns have long believed that positive incentives, such as moderate tax reductions, not sticking or blaming the unemployed for their own plight, can boost employment. And we have many proposals in our alternative budget that we consider to improve employment but which are not in any way excluded from workers or employers. Mr President! The Finns Party has also supported this regional employment experiment, which has gained good experience from Pirkanmaa, among others. It has been found that comprehensive support and personal encounters have been very valuable for many unemployed people, and good feedback has indeed come. In particular, attention has been paid to those who are able to work part time and to those who are older, and it is absolutely essential that we continue to do so. Of course, we also look forward to concrete proposals and feasible measures from these employment groups set up by Minister Haraka in order to further increase the employment rate. Mr President! When Sipilä's government, under the leadership of the Centre and the Coalition Party, presented this active model for regulation two years ago, in autumn 2017, there were indeed many long debates in Parliament about the problems of this active model and the opposition was very united in their opposition to the active model, when they raised these problems which were included in the proposal of the then Sipilä Government. One of the major shortcomings that was already known at the time was the fact that the unemployed may not always be able to avoid a cut in their unemployment support, even though they may be hard-hitting, and this has now been observed in these subsequent reviews. Mr President! At that time, in autumn 2017, the opposition also highlighted, among other things, the differences in employment opportunities between the different regions of the country and the problems of seeking employment for older unemployed people. These concerns, too, have proved to be justified, but unfortunately the government parties at the time did not agree to these concerns already expressed at the time, nor to the like views of independent experts. It is therefore very important and essential for justice that the active model should be repealed in this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u222	Mr President! Indeed, I have worked for employment services in my career, leading the Employment Service Centre to support the long-term unemployed, disabled people. In this context of setting the active model last season, I was particularly annoyed by the then government, as it were by this kind of ideological preparation, in which the experts' attention to this real activation and instead of seeking their effective means, was set off on such a stick line: a 4.65% cut in unemployment security, that’s it, would encourage. But now it is great to be here in this House to say that we have been able to embark on a new career and to dismantle the unfair active model that was established by the previous government and parliament despite the opposition of the Social Democrats. However, I would also like to take this debate back a little bit in time to the situation two years ago where, at first reading, a strange spectacle was seen here in Parliament. By the government, the normal Rules of Procedure of Parliament and the response times related to the order of business were passed and this active model was brought to the first reading with a very fast schedule. I am sure that each of us had other expenses on the calendar for the weekend, and at 4.30 p.m. we met here to discuss the matter. At that time there were MPs from the Left Alliance, Social Democrats and Greens, and one representative from the Government might have been on turn. This situation is well described by the doctor, MP Anna Kontula in her own book on parliamentary work. If we have to learn something from the introduction of an active model, it is linked to the good practices of Parliament, to the good debate between the government and the opposition and, above all, to the use of experts in the preparation of the law. I hope that we have read our lesson here, and for those who have not yet read their homework, I recommend Dr. Kontula's book.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u223	Congressman Kontula's name was mentioned.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u224	Yes, thank you. In particular, Mr Kari raised this point in my book because I am presenting Mr Karin as a hero. [Laughter] Mr President! I respond to Mr Kankaanniemi's concerns about Kela and its financial situation in relation to this abolition of the active model. After all, it is the nature of the active model that it is temporary, so once the system has been set up, it has been calculated that these cutters will also run out, and that mechanism and the funding will exist there. In this respect, Mr Kankaanniemi does not need to be concerned about whether Kela's money will be sufficient for this reversal, but rather, once it has been resolved, money will be saved. On the other hand, Kela's money is the scarcest thing in the world, and that is something we should all be concerned about. I would like to say to Mr Savilo that, unfortunately, we do not have the good experiences of the municipal experiment in Pirkanmaa, which has been so much publicised, just as there is research in fact, precisely because of the same problem as this active model, that the reforms of the previous government did not include this impact assessment at a sufficiently early stage so that we now have scientific evidence as to whether things were going well or bad. If people who are in the labour administration ask afterwards whether it is more comfortable to work with good funding in the municipal trial or with much less funding, with which it was made prior to the municipal experiment, there are likely to be a lot of people who say that this municipal experiment works better, but it does not in itself indicate whether any other structure might have achieved the same or better results with those resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u225	Mr President! Let me now turn to two speeches: First of all, Mrs Kankaanniemi's speech on Kela: this concern has been very relevant in that way, because when I myself have been a delegate to Kela, this active model, as we all know, meant that Kela had to hire more staff precisely because the active model required an assessment of the activity of these unemployed people and therefore it was a highly tailored job. In that sense, now that this active model is overturned, it also means that these problems, which were in Kela, should at least be removed from my understanding. In that sense, it should provide more resources for Kela than it has done so far. My second point is this: Mr Kontula has made very good speeches here, and I actually want to look to the future myself, as he did in that speech. The Rinne Government is investing specifically in employment measures and various services.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u228	Mr President! In his speech, Mr Kankaanniemi criticised the government's process of preparing employment measures, where tripartite working groups were set up to prepare some of the employment measures. The fact that the government has been responsible for involving the social partners in the preparation is, in my view, the best way to involve these parties in the implementation of employment measures, and I personally consider this to be a particularly good way of doing so. The social partners, if any, are experts on this subject. Finland has been built for years with tripartite preparations and a lot of important reforms have been made, but unfortunately the previous government wanted this well-established method of preparation to be abandoned. Fortunately, this government understands the importance of involving the social partners. It must also be understood that, although some of the employment measures are now being prepared on a tripartite basis and given the social partners the opportunity to influence, the government is ultimately the one who takes the final decisions on these employment measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u229	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! There was a little concern here that activation plans were still being made for the citizens, I suppose. I think they've been doing it for over 20 years. I remember myself when after high school I didn't get to go straight to the school I wanted, so as a result I ended up in this kind of activation program, which was directed to, among other things, a professional psychologist who, in the studies, found that the signatory was suitable as a sea captain. The studies are still a little early, so I probably have not fulfilled this activating obligation and the penalty is probably still on its way — but play aside. As a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I would like to thank you at this stage for a very constructive and meaningful debate. In summary, I think that more involvement and less participation, more self-esteem and skill-raising than printing and flattening people. Mr Kinnunen, who has now left the Chamber, said quite well that what we need is jobs all over Finland so that people can have a genuine job. That's what we're all talking about.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u230	Mr President! I think it's good that this active model cutter is finally going to have to go to waste. This model was made disproportionate by the fact that the number of services varies widely from one locality to another, and there are very different opportunities for short-term employment across Finland, and if these activity criteria were not met, unemployment benefit was cut by 5%. This active model did not actually activate, but punished for lack of work. I will take one example from my own province, Posio: 80 per cent of unemployed unemployment benefit was cut because they were simply unable to meet the criteria for an active model even if they were standing there. There is one important employer, Pentik, but not all of them are quite pottery in this society, and it also reflected the very one-sided economic structure that there is not much other work to offer. This is the kind of thing that I really appreciate that this model is finally going to go to waste.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u231	Mr President! Thank you for the comments I have made. As far as Kela is concerned, first of all, the problem is the tightness of operating expenditure, and when such reforms are carried out when about 5% of the cut is dropped, it will require the renewal of computer programs and the screening of many benefits, and there will be problems when it comes to doing so very quickly — that is what I meant. Does this removal of the cutter save these benefit funds or not? It seems a little that if benefits improve, the skilled Kela expenditure increases, but it may include higher mathematics that I have studied sometimes in the 1960s, and it may be that the data have become outdated as the head has become greyer. In other words, I think that the concern about Kela should always take account of the needs of the body that implements it, which implements it. Mr President, here Mr Kontula dealt with these trials of municipalities and the experiment of municipalities in Pirkanmaa, which has received very positive feedback, but I too have been somewhat disturbed by the fact that I have not noticed that there have been proper studies, assessments of its actual effects. Whenever such experiments are carried out, the experiment should be well planned, then carefully carried out and then carried out, in-depth analysis of its results, and then put into operation either as such or as amended or rejected. I do not think that we have had this very often when there have been quite a lot of these projects and experiments in these past years, and that is what should be done with regard to these experiments in municipalities, in terms of employment experiments. I heard that the Haraka working groups, the eight working groups, there were quite a lot of discussions about these municipal experiments and everything else, Mr Berg, has been rather weak. Give my regards to Minister Haraka and tell him to hurry up. Of course, it is excellent if things are done with the triangular, and it has done a lot of good here in Finland in the past years, and I am sure it can be done today, but it is extremely slow. If you are going to have a 75% employment rate by 23 years, then the certainty is that you will not achieve it when you expect the result of the three-pronged consensus. You can't get them there. The most important thing is that all parties are consulted, but not all parties need to be involved in the preparation, and Parliament is the one representing the people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u232	Mr President! It is to the credit of both this government and this Parliament that we can now reverse this active model. This was a very perverse way of thinking: instead of creating jobs or creating the conditions for employment, it started to punish the unemployed, and in addition, as all the analyses of this model have been carried out, the most vulnerable unemployed people who have been unemployed, the elderly unemployed, the people living in peripheral areas, were penalised; the situation in Posio was referred to. It was an absurd idea to do so by punishing the employment problem and, as I said, it is a credit to all of us to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u233	Mr President! Just a little more clarity to Mr Kankaanniemi, what I meant when I do not worry about Kela's operating expenses specifically in relation to this active model — otherwise, of course, but not in relation to the ending of the active model: The active model does not drive down anything terribly big very suddenly. With the big changes that are taking place there for the people who are released from the cutting circle, yes, there are people who will no longer receive income support and there will be a change in support, but there will be income support, especially when it comes to people who have been caught up in it because of the cutting-off, likely to have been granted either one month or three months at most, so in any case they will have been prepared for checking them out and becoming a flag and a note, and if they do not come so much now, it will save work rather than cause it to happen more. As regards housing support, which is probably also available to many in the cutting shop, there are revision periods and the change is so small that it does not go beyond the obligation to review that period. So this isn't the worry. Kela’s financing, though, in general is worrying.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u234	Mr President! I should like to add to Mr Kontula's speech that the introduction of an active model specifically required the need for additional staff in Kela over several decades of staff and, in practice, when these people had to assess the need for an active model cutter for each person in the area of labour market support or the basic daily allowance, if that is the case, and had to combine different benefits, it was a very laborious model. After this operation, these same people then applied for income support from Kela, which meant that additional human resources had to be employed for income support,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u240	Mr President! In the last parliamentary term, efforts were being made to improve employment rather than carrots on the stick line, and I am pleased that this has also changed direction. It was this active model, which treated the unemployed unjustly, that received the most criticism. In the Government Programme it was recorded that, by the Rinte Government, the operating model cuttings and obligations will be removed once measures with equivalent employment effects have been decided. When this law was being implemented, it was estimated that it would create between 5000 and 12,000 more jobs. However, the recently published VATT study showed that it cannot be demonstrated that the active model has created new jobs and therefore the conclusion is that no compensatory measures are needed either. Last season it was also decided to put an end to municipal trials on employment services, and I am also pleased that this is where the helm is being raved in the other direction and that the role of municipalities in employment services is being strengthened on the contrary. In addition, an employment voucher will be introduced, the threshold for the employment of part-time workers will be lowered and the equal pay programme will be continued. These are such important measures and a red thread for this reign.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u241	Mr President! I shall now comment at least once again to Mr Kankaanniemi. I quite agree that the work of these working groups cannot be continued indefinitely, and this is not the intention, but that the report of the working groups will be presented in January and the government will then catch up and move forward. In my speech, I also tried to point out that, although we have working groups that prepare these matters, the final decision on these matters is made by the government and then by Parliament, I fully agree with it, and that is how it should be. But I see the value of tripartite preparation. In general, whenever things can be prepared on a tripartite basis, they are more committed to them and then it is much easier and better to move forward with their reforms. Then I'll think about it. In one speech, the Kankaanniemi was now concerned that this work is taking too long and is now in a hurry with these measures, but then again in the second speech you pointed out that a parliamentary committee or similar should now be set up, and you pointed out that these are issues of such importance that we should not be hasty about moving the matter forward now. That this is a bit of a contradiction in all respects: the parliamentary committee could prepare for no matter how long, because this is an important issue and it should not be rushed, but then you feel that the work of this working group has already taken too long.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u242	The debate will continue with the speech by Mr Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u243	Mr President! There is still reason to comment on the two speeches that have been made to me. First of all, from this Kela: I quite agree that, a few months after this change, it will certainly be possible to make savings in the administration also in operating expenditure, as I hope it will be in benefit expenditure. It's always like this. But two years ago in Kela — I have been an auditor there for four years and I know it well — when this active model came, there was a situation similar to that of the transfer of basic income security, when we were all under heavy bombing when there were long problems due to too fast a timetable for implementation. For example, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities proposed a transitional period of one year for the transition to basic income support than the government — and it was the previous government of course — did and Parliament approved. So here's where we should think about this. I admit that we are now at this stage that this reform or repeal is moving forward, and that is a good thing. Kela will probably find out about it, but I promised the leaders of Kela that I would raise this matter further, thinking that it would not do what would then entail such costs. The life expectancy of the two-year active model was at the beginning and at the end it caused significant work. As Mrs Kiljunen said, we had to hire up to tens or at least a large number of additional staff. Well, that's it. Mr President! Mr Berg then intervened when I proposed a parliamentary employment committee or something. There is a very big difference between what is now the model. Now we have given power to the lobbies. When the EK presents something, SAK opposes, and when SAK presents something, EK resists. Let us grind and grind, and then we finally come up with a proposal to make taxpayers and the state pay and not to interfere with their hearts when someone's interests are always at stake. With regard to medium-term and long-term employment measures, we could probably achieve a better result if Parliament, parliamentary groups and all parties were linked to it, those who have the responsibility for this country, the unemployed and the labour force and access to labour for businesses and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u244	President! It is wonderful that the rather complex and unfair active model should be dismantled and that genuine employment measures should be taken. Surely one way is not enough, and it is good that we are now looking at all of them. It is also extremely important to invest in education and training and thus to provide people with employment opportunities. At the same time, it is certainly a challenge to have a rather one-sided business structure, especially in certain localities. Of course, that's when you're at great risk in the event of any changes. Finland's exports are also too concentrated in a number of sectors, which we talk a lot about here in Parliament. Therefore, it would be important to recognise the importance of skills and services in their diversity, business services and knowledge-based services, and to continue to diversify our business structure and exports.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u245	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 15/2019 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u246	Mr President! I now greet you on behalf of the chairman of the committee, Mr Vehviläinen, because both the chairman and the vice-president have been prevented from this presentation — that is to say, I am conducting such an informal presentation, I am now an informal supervisor. Report 15/2019 by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health deals with a proposal by the government to increase the minimum age of the supplementary day allowance for unemployment benefit, the so-called pension line, from 61 to 62 years for those born in 1961 and thereafter. It is proposed to modify the financing of additional days of unemployment benefit so that the end-of-life period for employers' financial liability would increase by a corresponding increase in the minimum age for additional days from 63 to 64 years. At the same time, it is proposed to change the upper age limit for the granting of unemployment benefit and the obligation to pay unemployment insurance for those born in 1965 and thereafter to monitor the change in the minimum retirement age under the Workers' Pensions Act. The changes are expected to enter into force at the beginning of next year. The proposal is based on a pension agreement concluded by key social partners in 2014 where central labour market organisations agreed to assess by spring 2019 the impact of past changes on the labour market status of employees in relation to the right to extra days. According to the study, increases in the age limits of the supplementary daily allowance have lengthened working lives and thus reduced unemployment. In addition, the average income level of those who have lost the right to extra days has increased as a result of raising the minimum age. Moreover, those who have lost an additional day's entitlement, who have reached the maximum unemployment allowance, have not been granted long-term labour market support. On the basis of the report, the social partners have agreed to increase the age limit of the supplementary daily allowance in the agreement concluded in spring 2019 based on further negotiations on the 2017 pension reform. The committee considers the proposed amendments to be justified and supported. The aim of these changes is to extend working life, thereby reducing unemployment and increasing employment. The employment impact of the change has been estimated at 6,000 people by 2025 and slightly higher in the longer term. The impact on employment is based on the fact that people who are not entitled to additional days remain in employment for longer. However, the Committee draws attention to the fact that the employment impact of the proposal is based on the impact of increasing the minimum age of the right to supplementary daily allowance. In addition, given the impact of raising the upper age limit of unemployment benefit and the upper age limit of daily allowance, the proposed changes will reduce the pension pipeline for those born between 1961 and 1972 but will extend the pension line for those born in 1974 and thereafter. The proposed changes may therefore have the opposite effect in terms of employment in the long term, from 2034 onwards, as compared with the increase in the minimum age of the supplementary daily allowance. For this reason, the committee considers it necessary to assess in the future the age limits of the supplementary daily allowance and the supplementary daily allowance as part of the development of unemployment benefit as a whole. In its opinion, the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities has considered it important that the Act on Public Employment and Business Services continues to provide for the right of those aged 60 or over to employment-promoting services or paid employment and the obligation to employ the household. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health agrees with the opinion of the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities that access to employment-friendly and personalised services for older people must be further enhanced. The service provided must be appropriate in labour market policy terms and paid employment must also improve the employment opportunities of an elderly person. The Committee also stresses that the reform of social security must pay particular attention to the development of a system of benefits and services in order to support working life better. Changes in working life, such as the possibility of reduced working hours and staggered retirement, would also support the employment of older people. On 15 November 2019 Parliament has adopted draft laws amending the Act on the financing of unemployment benefits and Section 1a of Chapter 14 of the Act on unemployment security. The committee therefore proposes to amend the text of the second reading. Section 24 of Chapter 8a of the draft law It takes account of the amendment adopted following the adoption of the government proposal. The committee's report contains an objection. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u247	Mr President! I think it is very important that this bill has been prepared in cooperation with the key social partners and the Finnish Federation of Entrepreneurs. This proposal will now be used to raise the age limits proposed by the social partners. Here, Mr Kankaanniemi, is another good example of how tripartite preparation works. The Government's proposal also contributes to the objectives of the Rinte Government's programme to increase the employment of older and other hard-to-work people. Mr President! Both the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities considered the objectives of the Government's proposal and the proposed changes to be justified and supported. In its report, however, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health drew attention to the fact that the employment impact of the proposal is based on the impact of increasing the minimum age of the right to supplementary daily allowance. In addition, given the impact of raising the upper age of unemployment benefit and the upper age limit of the supplementary day entitlement, the proposed changes will shorten pension lines for those born between 1961 and 1972 but will extend pension lines for those born in 1974 and thereafter. In the long term, the proposed changes may therefore have the opposite effect in terms of employment in relation to the increase in the minimum age of the supplementary daily allowance. For this reason, the committee considers it necessary to assess in the future the age limits of the supplementary and supplementary daily allowances as part of the development of unemployment benefit. In its opinion, the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities considered it important that the Public Employment and Business Services Act should continue to provide for the right of those aged 60 or over to employment-promoting services or paid employment and the obligation to employ the household. Mr President! The access of older people to employment-promoting and personalised services needs to be further enhanced. The service provided must be appropriate in labour market policy terms, and the work provided by a paid worker should improve the chances of an elderly person becoming more employable. The reform of social security must also pay particular attention to the development of the benefit and service system in order to support working life better. For example, the opportunities for reduced working hours and staggered retirement in working life would contribute to the survival and retention of older people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u248	Mr President! It is essential that we improve the opportunities of all-aged Finns in working life. According to existing research data, raising the age limit of the unemployment pipeline has significant positive effects on employment. However, we need to go further in improving employment. The Coalition Party has proposed that the unemployment pipeline should be completely abolished. The abolition of the pipeline would have a significant impact on employment. According to a report produced by a working group of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, it could create up to 10,000 jobs. I would like to see a broad consultation of experts and a study of the impact of depreciation on employment. The status of those already in the unemployment pipeline would be safeguarded, but new people would no longer be in the pipeline. It should be borne in mind that increasing or possible lifting the age limit for the unemployment pipeline will require consideration of many other issues. The rights of older people in our labour market must be ensured. The position of older people in working life needs to be improved. There is far too much age discrimination in the labour market. It must be eradicated with determination and the reasons behind it must be established. Too often older people looking for a job face prejudices. We cannot afford to waste their potential and know-how. Of course, it must be borne in mind that the existence of an unemployment pipeline also contributes to the weakening of the labour market position of older people. Mr President! We must make every effort to increase the employment rate. We will continue working together to increase the employment of older people and listen to the best experts in our country and the latest research data for this purpose.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u249	Mr President! This shortening of the pension line is a clear reduction in unemployment security, and I have generally not supported any reduction in unemployment security. Why am I acting differently now? The committee's consultation showed that the pension pipeline does not only guarantee income security at the end of people's careers, but also serves as a means of weakening their employment security, i.e. it creates a fairly clearly verifiable mechanism by which employers fire their employees first who know they can get into this line. This leads to longer working relationships for these people when the pipeline is delayed. In other words, the increase in employment that comes from this change does not arise from the fact that people who have already become unemployed are in some way working harder, but rather from the fact that people do not become unemployed so easily. That is why, and because of the fact that this leaves other mechanisms to safeguard the earnings of older people in our unemployment benefit system, I have decided exceptionally to support a partial reduction in unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u250	Mr President! The main proposal of this law is to raise the minimum age of the pension line to 62 years of age for those born in 1961 and then. On this issue, it is important that older people's employment services be given attention. According to the Government Programme of Prime Minister Antti Rinte, employment services will be developed in such a way that the services at the start of unemployment, in particular, will be made more efficient and enable the individual needs of the unemployed to be made more accessible. At the same time, the personal service resources of the unemployed are secured at the TE Offices. Studies have shown that older people often find it difficult to re-employment. Even age-olds are spoken of in that labour market. In accordance with the Government Programme, access to employment-promoting and personalised services for those in particular need of support will also be enhanced. This proposal has the effect that this proposal to increase the age limit for additional days is expected to prolong working life and thus reduce unemployment and increase employment. The employment impact of the change has been estimated at 6,000 by 2025 and up to 9,000 by 2055. This will improve the employment rate of the age groups affected by the change and thus the average income level and the pension accrual. This really is an extension of the year. On the other hand, the Coalition Party was even more vigorous in its proposal and required the government to take measures to abolish the unemployment pension line in its own protest.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u251	Mr President! This really is an example of a change of law being introduced at the trio, but what kind of change of law? The kind that weakens unemployment security. This tells me — I may be wrong, but you who are better acquainted with the ideologies of the social partners — that employers are very keen to see unemployment security weakened, but that workers' organisations are also prepared to do so, because they are not just as interested in the unemployed as they are in those who are working. This has been seen many times, and this is regrettable, and it is precisely the fact that these lobbies do not pursue the cause of those who are out of work — the unemployed, pensioners and others — that when they are not interested in them, then they will be cut off from there when we see that something must be done. In other words, on the basis of this proposal, Mr Berg, I would not at all argue that the trilogue is in the interests of those who are affected by this proposal and, at least, it is often not in the interests of the taxpayer as a whole. Mr President! In this context, I would like to highlight the way in which the committee's work brought about a major pension reform. All over the world, it was wondered that in the turn of the 21st century, Finland was able to carry out a major pension reform — unfortunately, that folded index remained there when you voted in favour of it, but that is different now. But the committee led by Chief of Staff Kari Puro did the job. In the end, I believe that all Members objected and only Mr Puro was behind that proposal, but on the basis of that proposal, almost without changing the comma, a historic, very large reform of the pension system was carried out. It was an excellent achievement and an indication that long-term jobs, as is now the case with improving employment, which is certainly a long story ahead, can be managed effectively on the basis of parliamentary committee work based on parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u252	Mr President! Perhaps it could correct Mr Kankaanniemi that, although there are committee work behind this, the earnings-related pension system has been created in the triangular system and the tripartite labour market field has been strongly developing the whole system from the outset, and it is reasonable that it should be further developed through this cooperation. It has its own wisdom. You referred to these pension reforms at the beginning of this century, starting in 2003. Yes, pension reforms were significant and, Mr President, I am not going to start a debate on a folded index, because it is, of course, still a wound there, so the problem is, of course, that because of this index, pensioners are the only group of income recipients whose income levels are falling legally when funds are still being raised. But this is not the subject of this theme; we now have this raising of the minimum age of the unemployment pipeline. It is its own wisdom that we extend the working life and allow people to work longer, just because the age of taking up employment from the bottom is constantly rising because of education, of course, and in that sense, in order to make this overall career natural, it is quite natural that this extension of working lives also takes place in the case of this unemployment pipeline. But, Mr President, there is of course a bigger case behind it in the end, the fact that people live longer, and when they talk about retirement, there are two angles to retirement: others ‘want to ‘and’ get out’,but there is a large group, an increasing number of people,people who ‘will have to retire’. Our average life expectancy has increased by 23 years since World War II, people live longer, are able to work, even though the so-called working age is already behind the age of 65 — that is where it is calculated at the moment. It would be good if we could make it possible for people really to work longer; all the reforms that make it possible are sensible. In other words, the so-called retirement age, the working-age population in older people, is a large, large group of people who could contribute to society. It is worth noting now that almost 100,000 people over the age of 65 are currently working in paid employment and that number is constantly increasing, so that it should be possible to get rid of the so-called retirement age of the pension system. The whole concept of ‘generalretirement age’ is maho,sheiole sane. There is no general retirement age, there should not be a general retirement age, because it is individual, it is professional, it is also what makes sense the age of retirement. And in this respect, the Norwegian model of retirement between 62 years of age and 75 years of age makes sense. It is a flexible system and makes it possible for people who are capable and willing to work to work longer to contribute to society. It is about participation and participation, not just income at that age in itself, and this creative power is worth taking advantage of. Poets never retire, and artists, writers, and so on. After all, we have a lot of people who are creative in practice to the grave, and then let it also be possible with regard to paid employment. In that sense, all these measures, which make this system more flexible from here on out, make sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u253	I also saw it here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u254	Mr President! I applaud the fact that, in the report by the Puro Pensions Committee, although the SAK and other workers' organisations left a different opinion, the Social Democrats, the Left Alliance and others took it through here. That was a good thing to do. There is a similar situation now when Mr Kontula criticised this motion very strongly and said that he would make an exception to this and would be prepared to undermine the model of the unemployed pipeline. Of course, it is quite a concession that makes the whole more important than the weakening of the position of the unemployed than the decision. The Finns have not objected, not disagreed with the opinions of the committees, but we are also prepared to accept, on this basis, that this is a well-founded reform in terms of the whole. But we are also not prepared to support the motion by the Assembly that the whole thing should be removed. It is not responsible for our view, but it is necessary for this kind of system, which creates a soft opportunity for those who are in that life situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u255	Mr President! We have to comment so much on this now, because Mr Kankaanniemi does not seem to trust the social partners that this proposal was also supported by the Centre for the Unemployed. They were also in favour of raising the threshold for additional day-to-day entitlement in this context in their opinion. This is not just up to the social partners. You'd think that at least the Unemployment Center is on the side of the unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u256	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 13/2019 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u257	Mr President! Again, as chairman of the tax section, I present the report of the Committee on Finance on this matter. So it is a question of excise duty on liquid fuels. The aim of the proposal is to increase fuel taxation in line with the projected increase in consumer prices. The total amount is 250 million. I would like to emphasise precisely the view expressed here in the previous tax debate that this is a proposal for an increase in consumer prices in line with the forecast increase. Here, too, there is also a simple attempt to achieve a certain increase in tax revenues, and then to maintain the level of environmental control of fuel taxation in transport as it is today. The impact of this proposal: Tax increases are focused on fossil fuels. When the section dealt with this, concerns were raised in expert hearings about the impact of the increase on, for example, professional transport. As a result, this report gives some clarity as to how this professional transport is currently taxed. It is stated here that at present there is no full taxation of commercial diesel oil and, for example, the annual tax subsidy directly received by diesel in the form of a lower tax rate amounts to around 770 million. By deducting the tax on the propulsion of passenger cars and vans, the net subsidy for diesel is 420 million. The share of lorries in this tax subsidy is approximately 370 million. So here we point out that this is already subject to a certain form of tax aid. In conclusion, the committee then notes that there is no justification for environmentally harmful support at the moment, and in particular for increasing it, because we must of course take account of these objectives set out in the energy and climate strategy, the target of a 50% reduction in emissions, and the overall aim of this carbon neutrality by 2036. So this is how we write, the objectives are these, and that is where we have to go. We also note further work. In other words, this is happening in such a way that both fuel and energy taxation as a whole and transport taxation systems will be seen as a whole in the near future, this period. This is certainly part of the whole package in which we pay attention to the kind of overall palette that will then take shape in the future in this tax reform. In this respect, President, we send our regards. In other words, we attach great importance to this report which is currently being carried out in the working group in favour of reform. We believe that this should take account of the competitiveness of businesses and social and regional policy aspects. It is important to find solutions, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u258	Mr President! Very few people, at least few of those I know, drive a car for fun. The increase in fuel taxation should not lead to a reduction in motoring. Instead, there will be less money left in people’s everyday lives for various expenses and expenses. I myself would like to see a further increase in fuel taxation being considered, and especially as the government is at some point in the process of forming a government in our country, this issue will be further examined. After all, the Coalition Party has left a different opinion on this subject. It would also be desirable for Finland's fleet to be regenerated much faster. We have also been talking about this for years. New cars would be much more climate-friendly and safer.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u259	Mr President! After all, the increase in the tax on fuel means that the price of fuel will rise from 6 to 7 cents per litre during the government term. As we have heard above, this corresponds to a normal increase in consumer prices, but I must say that when you come from that sparsely populated area, this little one will chafe as a rock in your shoe. The problem is precisely that the increase in taxes is more heavy on low incomes and motorists living in remote areas. The good news is that this effect is partly compensated by income tax reductions and benefits increases. This proposal is intended to raise EUR 254 million per year in the first year. It is a good thing that Mrs Viitanen pointed out above that the taxation of motor vehicles is made up of a number of forms of taxation — car, vehicle, propulsion and fuel tax, employee benefits, kilometric compensation — and also subsidies, such as conversion subsidies. Therefore, greater tax reforms should be considered as a whole. The Government has launched a working group to assess the taxation of transport from the environmental, business and economic point of view of sparsely populated areas, and this group is due to publish an interim report next year and the final report will then be 2021. I still hope to remember that it is clear that in a large part of Finland there is no alternative to a passenger car,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u262	Mr President! Is it quite wrong to say that if and when motor vehicles are taxed in a variety of ways, perhaps it is the fuel tax that is the most natural way to allocate it, because it is then directly directed at the use of the car? Here Mr Ojala-Niemelä listed that long list, and when you add these different forms of punishment or sanctions, starting with camera surveillance, fines and parking control, this is an incredibly large jungle. Since this is where the use of the car is either punished or in any case taxed in very many forms, it might even make sense to consider how far this is now being taken, and it would make more sense to coordinate it. This fuel tax seems to me to be the most clear and perhaps the most sensible. I was surprised to hear Mr Pelkonen say that the Assembly has objected to this increase in fuel tax. I have the impression that, over the last few decades, the coalition has been in the government a number of times over a number of years, and Mr Viitanen has already listed for a few years the impression that the fuel tax has been increased almost every two years, at least every three years, almost every two years. I am absolutely convinced that in the last 20 years the coalition has been sitting in the government many times and making these fuel tax increases in most cases on the same basis as today: the rise in consumer prices. Through the fuel tax, it will only be brought into line with the inflation that society has had, in a sense the fuel tax has not been tightened in real terms. There have also been genuine extortion along the way. In that sense, there will be a little taste of this objection now, whether this is a bit like the wooing of voters, whether it is now made into a storm into a glass of water, deliberately stimulated and made a bigger matter than life, when this is not really a bigger matter than life now, if we are simply making an increase in that fuel tax, so that it stays as a percentage at the real level where it has been in the past. In that sense, I would like Mr Pelkonen to speak some sense in his own group on this issue, and you would be more reserved here and recognise this quite natural movement, which we have all done together in the past.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u263	Mr President! The Finns of Peru are proposing the rejection of this first law, that is, the rejection of this tax evasion, then at second reading. With regard to previous increases in fuel tax, for example in the last parliamentary term, they are based on the fact that in spring 2015 the state finances were on the brink of a gap. One step forward and we would have been under guardianship, under the auspices of the IMF and the EU Commission. I had to take action. They were made for purely fiscal reasons to increase government revenue, not to punish the people for using the car. You are now punishing for climate policy, for climate policy,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u266	Mr President! Like Mr Kankaanniemi, I am surprised at this bill in a sparsely populated country such as Finland, where public transport operates in most parts either very badly or not at all. This government proposal to increase fuel taxation by as much as EUR 250 million a year is very poorly thought out. As a result of this proposal, the profitability of working, especially at a distance from home, will fall significantly and, of course, other services will become more difficult. Thus, this particularly reduces the income of people who work long distances away. It is no big surprise that this proposal has also received criticism from the ranks of the representatives of the government parties, especially from the representatives of a slightly more northerly Finland. Mr President! Not only for private motorists, but also for professional transport, this proposal is very harmful. The inevitable increase in transport costs will also shift to final product prices and will also make our export industry more competitive. The Finns of Peru consider this development to be damaging, and in due course at second reading we are proposing to reject this bill relating to the increase in fuel tax, such as the representative. The Kankaanniemi mentioned this earlier. The Finns also suggest that the government should launch a study on the widespread introduction of professional diesel and low-emission commercial biodiesel. In addition, we believe that the government should investigate the introduction of road user charges for heavy foreign traffic. I hope that the future government, whatever it is, will take these proposals into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u267	Mr President! Tax increases in transport fuels are probably one of the most common tax increases, and I do not remember a government that would have sat down for a little longer and that would not have made tax increases in transport fuels. We have tried to minimise this increase in such a way that it is only done once in this parliamentary term and is in line with the increase in consumer prices. The situation is that this means only an increase of around 6 to 7 cents per litre with VAT. By the time we visit those filling places, the price of fuel will vary at the turn of the week. In that sense, it reflects the fact that this is a rather modest measure. This is where the Coalition Party and the Finns of Peru are very critical, but it is true that the Coalition Party had time — if recent acts are recalled here — to make increases in transport fuel and excise duties in 2012, 2014, 2015 and 2017. The Finns of Peru were in the government for a short time that they only did it once, or in 2017, but in a short time the Finns of Peru were able to renovate themselves. It is also worth remembering that next year we will have a reduced vehicle tax due to the law of Prime Minister Sipilä's government. It will make transport taxation somewhat easier next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u268	Mr President! I fully agree that there are no alternatives to driving everywhere — it is true — and I agree that, in fact, this should also be taken seriously because not all people can afford to buy a newer, low-emission car just like that, and it is also true that certainly not many people are driving for fun today. These are quite the points that we must take into account, and that is why I am in itself, although concerned about the position, satisfied that this proposal is described as being very moderate, i.e. prices are rising as much as other living, so to speak, to that level, and then we will look at the overall reform. That is why, President, I think it is very important that we, as a committee, now, for the future, have recorded that it is not enough that we look at this from an environmental point of view, for example, but also that regional aspects and aspects of social justice should be taken into account in this preparation. I think it is very important from now on, which leaves the committee. This is where Mr Kiviranta described, for example, the efforts made by the assembly in raising the gas tax, and I remember it very vividly then four years ago at this time. When the Finns went to the government, yes, we were very surprised that contrary to all the speeches that the Finns before the elections also told there in Tammelantor and elsewhere in Finland, that they should not increase the gas tax, that it is equal tax on the pump and that it is a bad job — as the Finns at first said — you yourself raised the gas tax, however it is — well, of course, came as a first job perhaps the Greek aid package, but at least as a second job. So I would like to thank Mr Kankaanie for his very good concern, because he brought up quite analytically and well the negative aspects of these increases, but in view of that, I wonder very much why you yourself raised the gas tax at the time. Of course, I could say nicely that you would perhaps have a little more weight if you had not acted in exactly the opposite direction than you are talking about.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u269	Mr President! The car is necessary for the majority of Finns. It is a tool for working, trying, shopping and taking children to day care, hobbies, active and mobile life. The car represents exactly what Finland needs to encourage more: work, enterprise, movement. Driving is also equality in our country of long distances. It also makes it possible to live outside the centres, outside the large cities. Now I wonder why the centre wants to weaken these conditions with this historic one-off increase in fuel tax that we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u274	Mr President! An important point has been raised in the objection to the motion, namely that transport companies do not receive this increase in their prices, but that compensation must be found. Otherwise, all of this will be borne by transport companies, and this will not increase Finland's competitiveness.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u275	Mr President! Does Finland need climate action? Does it need heavy climate action? Yes. We are not yet close to bearing our own share of halting global warming to 1.5°C. This is just the beginning. We still have a long way to go. Well, is this the kind of measure that is needed for the climate? Well, no, that's okay. There are other options. We can make choices up to a certain limit, but this is the most painless way out of the options we have available. We are now talking about an increase in consumer prices, which is relatively small and moderate, which is not enough to save anything on its own, but which will perhaps save us some more severe measure which would otherwise have to be taken. I simply do not understand in this situation when the research community has been united for many years that the situation is extremely acute and that politicians should be aware of their own responsibility for the preservation of civilization in the form we broadly understand that people are still putting their hands in the ears and closing their eyes and hoping that evil will go away when it is not just heard or seen. I do not understand how a politician today has the nerve to say that Finland should not assume its responsibility in this matter, and I am surprised at this kind of slight change when it is known that if we do not do any climate action, then competitiveness will only go so far, because the changes that will then come from there, if the climate gets as hot as it does, if nothing is done, will really do a bad thing to the economy. That's when they talk about really big changes. And it is known that if only those other actions are taken, they are, as a rule, tougher. This government has now started at the easiest end. As far as this is concerned, after this government and other governments, if we are to maintain such things as parliamentaryism or civilisation at all, it will be much harder to act, and if the threshold is already exceeded, then we will be in terrible trouble in the future when we really think about what is being done to ensure that civilisation is preserved.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u276	Mr President! I was inspired to take the floor after Mr Kankaanniemi had spoken. It sounded quite right, Mr Kankaanniemi, your speech from the Social Democrats in 2015, when you yourself were raising the fuel tax. You said that the reasons why you were prepared to increase the fuel tax on long distances in Finland were fiscal. ‘Standard of the State Hole’,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u281	Mr President! Mr Kari spoke wise words here. Finland is a long country and the special conditions vary across Finland. In this proposal, the price of fuel now rises between 6 and 7 cents per litre during the Government's term of office, and, as Mr Kiviranta said earlier, this also aims to minimise the damage. It is only this amount that has been decided to increase, at most, this period. Households spend an estimated EUR 19 billion on transport. It is the second largest cost item for households, these transport assets. At the same time, EUR 8 billion will be collected from transport and EUR 1.6 to EUR 1.8 billion returned to road maintenance. These are huge sums of money and it is therefore good that the government is now assessing this transport taxation as a whole. There's been a lot of recollection of the old, and I'm doing it right here. I remember well that election navigator in 2015 when Soini promised a EUR 900 million car tax. Well, how did that turn out? It shrunk into a cosmetic discount for those who could afford to buy a new car, but at the same time it was collected as vehicle taxes for those in need of a car in rural areas, and it has to be said that the sufferers were these very low and medium incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u282	Mr President! Representative Ojala-Niemelä forgot to say that the reduction in the car tax resulted in a significant increase in tax revenues for the state, as the car trade started to grow strongly and was subsequently able to maintain, among other things, a lower fuel tax. And it is only now that you are raising it very strongly in anticipation of future price developments. It is quite interesting that you are predicting how much inflation will be in the coming years, and that you will now increase in advance, just in case. But I doubt that you will raise it again this season for the second and third time, when your climate policy is so hysterical. It was particularly raised when we talked about parliamentaryism and the endangerment of civilisation as a result of climate policy. Not like this. We are in the wrong direction now, and in this respect we should really make the polluters pay. So why do you not present a embargo on China, India, Poland and so on if you are seriously concerned about this destruction of the climate? Although we weigh Finland’s emissions to zero, Finland’s share is only high for perm and does not change anything. On the contrary, these other countries make huge increases in emissions every single year. Mr President! Let me say here what I have done for climate policy in my own life: I moved to a tree house with a geothermal heat.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u287	Mr President! That is where Mr Kontula called for climate action, and this debate is undeniably confusing when the representatives of the government parties, in turn, justify this increase in fuel tax on climatic grounds and, in turn, on fiscal grounds. Now try to decide which of these increases is involved. When it comes to the pricing of emissions and emissions from the car and the transport sector in general, I would like to point out that we often focus easily only on these negative externalities, i.e. emissions, but there are also positive externalities. It affects people's ability to move, to get to work, and in this way it has a great positive impact on society. Then, if you look at the fairness of the pricing of emissions, in the transport sector in 2018, the cost of CO2 emissions was around EUR 250, and this includes the impact of the tax on its energy content. In industry, the price of CO2 emissions was at most about a quarter of this. Thus, emissions reductions in transport have not been achieved effectively, even though a tonne of CO2 has been priced several times more in the transport sector than in industry. In other words, the driver has actually been made to pay in Finland, and it has been made to pay heavily. In Finland, approximately EUR 8.4 billion of taxes are collected annually from transport. In addition to fuel taxes, taxes on motor vehicles, car taxes, taxes on insurance premiums, VAT and so on include taxes on motor vehicles, and some 3 billion of this total revenue is already collected as taxes on fuel. And this line of discipline really does not affect those emissions in practice. Experts have estimated that this fuel tax increase will have an impact of 0.7% on road transport emissions, i.e. this will in practice have no emission reduction effect. Instead, if emissions from the transport sector are genuinely to be reduced, action should be taken to re-establish the fleet of cars. This has also been stated quite frankly in the climate year report which was discussed here earlier in the autumn. In other words, the average age of cars must be reduced if emissions are to be reduced, and the most effective way of doing this is to keep the car tax down with determination, as the previous government has done, and to this end the coalition has raised objections to a viable model. I therefore call on the government parties now to heed this advice and pay attention to those genuinely effective measures, not to this discipline line, but to genuinely effective measures to reduce emissions from road transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u288	Mr President! I shall now return to this particular criticism of the opposition, when we are now using rather harsh and very strong words about the impact of this proposal. It is true, however, that you may rightly have a certain view, but I would like to ask quite frankly whether your story can be terribly credible in relation to the history of the past few years and the coalition itself has increased the tax on gas a great many times. Is it possible to ask whether it now seems that, and only then, the consequences of this increase in the gas tax will be absolutely disastrous when the coalition is in the opposition, and then, when you are in the government, you will just go and raise the gas tax, so that those withdrawals will be disastrous when you are in the opposition? Hokkuspocus, Speaker. Another then towards the Finns: I am still a little bit insisting that when the Finns raised the gas tax for the first time, that responsibility will not be over there. There is no way out of it by explaining how bad this is and that only when the basic Finns raised the gas tax was the economy in critical condition, never was it. Then the economic situation improved dramatically as soon as the Finns remained in the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u289	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u293	Mr President! I have to take a stand on this as the daughter of a motorist and a trucker and a long-term follow-up and also very much discussed with entrepreneurs in that country. If we start with what this means for the field, yes, it means really bad things for entrepreneurs, for example. This is also bad for an average family that has to use a car when there is absolutely no public transport in our area. Then these emissions from transport. Today we have just had a very expert lecture on these transport emissions for the Group of the Party of European Socialists. My goodness, transport emissions are not the biggest problem in Finland at all, just as Mr Kankaaniemi said there. Then I listened here to Mr Kontula, who often makes very wise speeches, but now he has put it in his ear when you say that this is the most painless thing to do. This is probably a good thing to go and tell the entrepreneur or the family that this is the most painless thing this government can do. This is a good thing for us to remember. Then, when I told another government representative about this, he said that well, transport companies could pass it on to prices. Hello! It was the bottom line of these answers. In any case, yes, I too have been in a government that has had to raise these. I can tell you a very long list of everything in my five governments, where I have been, has been raised. You can read it anywhere. But now we must remember that every government always makes its own decisions. You cannot rely on what has been done last season, but you must do what is yours. Even in the hospital, it is never done in such a way that if a patient has been prescribed insulin on the previous occasion, then the next time it has been given so much insulin by chance. No, it will always be considered as necessary and treatment will always be determined according to the situation. That's what they do to the lady Suomi.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u294	Mr President! Mr Kontula spoke here about the fact that nothing is being done about this climate issue in Finland. You hear that in this room a lot of times. Yes, I urge all these people to make a trip to Vaasa and get to know Vaasa's energy cluster and how much they do for Finland, for example, how much they do globally, how much business they become for Finland. They aim to be carbon neutral in 202x. So the goals are tough, and there's really a lot of action going on. It is a lie to say that nothing is done in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u295	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u296	Mr President! It is not customary in this Chamber to accuse other representatives of lying, at least not incorrectly. Mr Koponen can check in the Minutes that I did not say that nothing would be done. I said not to do enough, not nearly enough. Mr Risikko, I really said it painlessly and I mean it — although I may have exaggerated it a little bit. There are certainly other painless measures and, unfortunately, they are as minor as this, but as a rule they are already in the pipeline. They have already been decided or are already planned. From the moment we go, it's getting harder and harder. I hope that, in the future, in transport-focused reforms, we will be able to find solutions in which measures will focus on reducing car traffic, particularly in those areas where public transport is possible. Part of this, of course, is to organise that public transport to operate there in such a way that it is a viable alternative. Let us remember, however, that we already have an enormous number of ordinary families in this country where families with children are normally living without a car — I myself have raised three children without a car — and that one third of our trips by car are less than three kilometres long. We can therefore afford a variety of measures to reduce motoring without targeting those areas where the car is the only means of transport and where the journeys are usually long. Other ways of reducing the number of cars, hopefully painlessly for people, are precisely improving public transport, increasing the use of public transport, i.e. various communist solutions in terms of car ownership and car use, and of course, the moderate renewal of the car fleet, but all of them will then be accompanied by other, painful solutions, for example, due to the constraints of our budget. It will, of course, place politicians at the other end in the face of difficult solutions. Mr Kankaanniemi here called for a policy that the polluter should pay, and I fully agree with him. Representative However, the Kankaanniemi may not have thought to the very end that when consumption is measured, the Finns are in fact very far from having our ecological footprint anywhere near that 1. Measured by consumption, Finland is still considerably larger than its size. Finland is still a rogue state. When the Kankaanniemi here proposed a embargo on China, I do not know the real embargo, but a significant part of our consumption is currently recorded as carbon emissions from another country and it distorts statistics. That's exactly what I'm China is one of those factors that would probably be much less accessible if we were to buy less clothes, buy much less disposable consumer goods that are manufactured in China. So consumer-based calculation is a fair method of calculation, and this method of calculation still has a long way to go before we can afford to say anything to China or India about carbon emissions per capita.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u297	Mr President! There has been a great deal of debate here about this changed line in the coalition, and it must certainly be recognized that when 12 years sit in a row in the government, a rather heavy part of the present price of liquid fuels is the tax-raising heritage that accumulated in those years. Or if you asked the Parliament’s information service to calculate a pie or pizza for the last 15 years of fuel tax increases, then sharing it according to the size of a slice for each party, then the blue color would probably be dominant. In that sense, some logic should be used when moving from the government to the opposition, so that we do not change that drive in exactly the opposite direction. We do remember that the assembly had impressive and expensive lights all over Finland, that cars belong to the road and so on — quite the same kind of advertising agency work as the Automotive Association has done — and there has been quite a bit of emphasis on the climate policy that has now been introduced in some of its speeches. In actual fact, I would like to remind you that these mass increases in fuel taxes are not very smart, but we must now be much more careful in assessing the various options for the reform of the transport and energy tax package for the coming years and decades. This government has now launched these in-depth work on both sides, the separate working group has the overall taxation of transport in all its forms and then the taxation of energy in the other. The Committee on Finance intends to act as a parliamentary monitoring group on this issue and to ask for interim reports from these pre-workers working as experts and civil servants in principle, so that they would be clearly in a position to give direction already along that work, even if it comes to political weighing and comparison of options later next year and the following year. But it is important that Parliament and all parliamentary forces should be involved as early as possible in the direction of this work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u298	Mr President! When you listen to this debate in the hall, of course, you cannot escape the idea that such things over the parliamentary term and over the election planning of transport policy and energy policy would be quite a desirable space, and not that when you have made those own sins and elections come, then you give them the sins to the next and blame them for them, even though you have personally participated in the taxation of the same fuel package year after year or at least the election more harshly. It is also worth reading the report by the Committee on Budgets, which you may not have read. The committee's explanatory statement states that this increase is based on an increase in fuel taxation in line with the projected increase in consumer prices, and when reference is made here specifically to this forecast, I would like to draw attention to what Mr Koskinen said earlier. The same part of the report refers to this work of the working group on the reform of the taxation of transport and energy, and when these parliamentary reports are being carried out and together we are also trying to find ways of establishing a basic energy policy that goes beyond the parliamentary term, I very much hope that the new government, which will hopefully be set up in the future, will take such a step further in the tax treatment of these various forms of energy. And, for example, with regard to vehicle tax, I would consider it extremely important that, for example, the use of biodiesel and various renewable energy sources in transport and, of course, electric energy, charging points networks for Finnish electric cars, and various innovation support for the development of different systems should be taken seriously as a tool for achieving a sustainable energy policy and contributing to climate policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u299	Mr President! Mr Kontula pointed out here that this would at least be one of the most painless means, I now understand, but I do think that it is by no means one of the most painless. In the example family that I presented, who lives in Uusimaa's spending limits area, this increase really amounts to about 300 euros a year. There's nothing painless about this. These are real money, these are people's money, and they reduce the part of their own work that is left in hand. Sometimes I wonder if you really want to say that the people's euro there, the other here, that the middle-incomeer can afford to pay. I'm afraid that's what this sounds like. EUR 300 still is a large sum, and there is nothing painless about it. Well, this increase in fuel tax also reduces the competitive conditions for public transport in many places. This is essential to note. I would now like to refer directly to Mr Yrttiaho's speech here in the Chamber which he held this autumn. He said: ‘With the Lipasto system,the increase in the tax would increase the cost of bus and coach transport by According to the same system, it would have a reduced effect of around one per cent on bus and coach travel volumes, taking into account price elasticity. That would mean between 2 and 3 million trips per year on a national basis.’ In other words, this will also reduce the use of public transport. Then I would like to say that driving is not a serious environmental crime, and we need to get rid of this thinking. When we consider the possibilities that Finland still has to reduce emissions, attention should be paid specifically to those sectors where reducing emissions does not require a significant change in people's way of life or, at all, necessarily means an increase in costs, because there is a real potential for reducing emissions. Sometimes I feel that the goodness of emission reductions is measured by how much they will cost. The more expensive the actions, the better they are. This sector, where emission reductions can be achieved without increasing costs, is in particular heat production. For example, emissions from district heat are higher than emissions from the transport sector in Finland, and there are certainly no solutions that can cost-effectively replace coal, for example. Particular attention should now be paid to this and efforts should be made, for example, by means of tax incentives or otherwise by removing obstacles to legislation to enable the introduction of new technologies. I would now like to raise the issue of the promotion of small nuclear power, on which I have tabled a measure initiative with Mr Harjante. These are opportunities that Finland should seize. We should be a pioneer not only in the number of emission reduction targets but also in the level of discipline — clean technology and new opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u300	Mr President! In this debate, it seems to be forgotten that for low-income recipients of wages, pensions and benefits, this increase in excise duty on transport fuels will be replaced by increases in income tax reductions favouring low income income, namely a reduction in labour income, a reduction in pension income and a basic reduction in municipal taxation, amounting to EUR 200 million per year. Then I repeat that the increase in the tax on transport fuels is in line with the estimated increase in consumer prices throughout this four-year parliamentary term and the relative increase in wages and other earnings is considerably higher than the fuel tax. If this fuel tax increase were as large as will be, according to very reliable estimates by the Ministry of Finance, an increase in wages and other earnings over a four-year period, this increase in the excise duty on fuels would be 40% higher than what the government is now proposing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u301	Mr President! I also decided to take the floor here, in fact, when I listened to that statement by Mr Action Kankaanniemi, mainly on how hysterical the government's climate action is, now raising by six cents a litre of this fuel tax. At the same time, however, you say that China and India should then be placed under embargo. Perhaps, however, this is a less hysterical way for the Finnish Government to participate in these climate negotiations at this point than for the government to start building a pattern of trade blockade. Of course, everyone can consider whether to order goods from a local producer or here in Finland or from China. That too, of course, must be encouraged. Then it surprises me that Finland could not be at the top of climate action, especially for you Finns, or it is said as in this position as a leader, because even if we put the whole of Finland on hold, it does not have an impact globally, but on the other hand it is so that it is difficult to ask others to take action if they are not committed to this sort of thing. However, Finland's carbon footprint is many times higher than that of India or China, for example, which means that it must definitely be included in Finland's carbon footprint. At some point in this autumn the Committee on the Future was there in Italy, and there are such political forces who think the same way: Italy cannot do this because Italy is just a small nation. However, there are 65 million inhabitants and it is the third largest economy in Europe. Yes, everyone should be involved in it, and just as Mr Vestman said here, so be involved in the development of this clean technology and this kind of technology as well. But together, Europe will also be able to exert political influence on industry and research and so on, which will then become cleaner technology for both cars and aircraft and ships and everything.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u302	Mr President! Let us apologise to Mr Kontula if the wording was indeed ‘sufficient’ and ‘nothing’. But it still does not remove the fact that Finland is a pioneer in technology, which can curb climate change and yet so that we can still live relatively normally here. Congressman Asell brought up India. There people continue to die from air pollution, and yet here in Finland we blame us Finnish people. We are doing a great deal here, and I think that will be enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u303	Mr President! Mr Koponen, we may be in many ways pioneers in technology, but we are also pioneers in poking around, and that is something that we must change before we take over the others in this matter. Mr Vestman, your high-powered average-income family of four-person environmentalists loses EUR 6 25 cents per person per month — EUR 6 25 cents per person for a member of a middle-income family.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u304	Mr President! I am concerned that the incentives for work in Finland will be maintained, that it is worth going to work here in the morning, that you need to go through that sledgehammer, start that cold car and drive it to the workplace — that there will be enough incentives to do so and that people will thus have genuine incentives to improve their situation. And the fact is that this increase in fuel tax is directed specifically at this — people’s own activity and work. And when you say, Mr Kontula, that you compensate for these increases for those on low incomes, and when we have just dealt here today with the change in the income tax scale, and when the report of the Committee on Finance actually states that when the taxation of labour is tightened — according to the proposal as a whole, it is about EUR 14300 and EUR 24000 per year — do you think that, for example, these EUR 2000 per month will be the kind of good income that can now afford these increases and for which you will not actually compensate for these increases, because the taxation of their work will also increase next year? This is the logic I'm asking you now. This means, for example, that this nurse, who earns around EUR 2000 per month, not only loses less of her salary due to increased taxation of labour, but also has to bear the burden of increasing the fuel tax. I am also calling for the social justice that you have committed yourself to in the Government Programme: what is the social justice of this 2000-dollar manager that this government programme and this budget proposal bring?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u305	Mr President! I fully agree with Mr Vestman that driving is not an environmental crime, it is part of our normal everyday life. Väinö and Toini in the yard of the S-market gave me quite a chat that ‘hears,Mikko,yes we have to drive a car,as long as we live in a remote area’. But then I wonder that we are talking about an historic increase, because we all know that governments have been forced to raise prices and taxes, including fuel taxes, and not for the first time to raise them, and yet this change is moderate. Of course it still hurts. It's set to a minimum. According to one calculation, if you drive a petrol car 17,000 kilometres a year, this will have an impact of 69 euros, and as Mr Kiviranta pointed out, this will be compensated for to people on low incomes. It is good that we are making technology, good, clean technology, developing it, exporting it. That's our strength. We also need to take knowledge where it is needed. It can also become an export product. Of course, I also support the development of public transport, which has been mentioned here, to take care of, but also to take into account the perspective of the sparsely populated region.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u306	Mr President! Finland has set itself the target of halving transport emissions by 2030. Part of this emission reduction target is related to the objective of making Finland carbon neutral by 2035. In order to reduce emissions from transport, a number of measures are needed which are combined with this emission reduction target. More than 90% of transport emissions come from road transport and more than 80% from road transport emissions from passenger cars. This is why the most significant emission reduction measures must be targeted at road transport and passenger transport. In urban areas, passenger cars using fossil fuels will replace most of them by electric cars and in sparsely populated areas with long distances, petrol and diesel will replace them with natural gas and later with synthetic biogas. For the SDP, it is important for these reductions in transport emissions to be implemented in a socially fair manner. In sparsely populated areas, there is no alternative to the use of a passenger car, where it is possible to achieve emission reductions with changes in propulsion. In urban areas, the use of a passenger car can be reduced by directing people to public transport and walking and cycling.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u307	Mr President! Mr Vestman, this government compensates for its own decisions, not the decisions of the Assembly. You asked me how the government program for that two-ton-a-month nurse increases social justice. Well, it adds to it, for example, in such a way that his child can attend the best school in the world, a school where the children of people who make only four or six tons are usually excluded from the rest of the world. It increases social justice so that the nurse can get to work without fear of the need for care for her relatives during the working day. In other parts of the world, he would not have this opportunity until he is sufficiently wealthy to hire a home nurse to take care of his mother or his young children who require care. He will be able to work there on the road without paying a customs charge separately, and he will not have to pay a guard downstairs in his house to keep the peace in the house, because social confidence in society has deteriorated, as in many other societies where incentives for work have been put so far ahead of other things that it has not been possible to take care of that tax. In other words, the incentives for work and the fact that you are paid for work are of course important things, but now, in your own example, we are talking about EUR 6.25 for a person who drives a lot. A little moderation now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u308	Mr President! It is a little difficult to place yourself in those speeches by the Assembly Representative when, on the basis of this government's proposal, the taxation of labour is not being tightened up. And then there is this uncontrollable self-smoothness of the coalition when, under the Competitiveness Pact, these contributions from the employer to the employee were transferred from their pension and unemployment insurance contributions to their employees, and they will be realised next year. It is the result of the competitiveness agreement concluded during the Sipilä Government and in which the Coalition Party was involved. Even then, in my opinion, it was replaced at least once by reductions in income tax. Then there is this fixed-term health insurance reduction, which now stops next year and is perhaps the most important factor. It could actually be estimated from that too that it could be that it was replaced last season. In any case, these issues arising from the Kikiy agreement are not matters of this government, but are matters of the government led by Prime Minister Sipilä, where the assembly, in good agreement, did these activities of the Kikiy agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u309	Mr President! Labour taxation is certainly not going to rise, but the tax burden on work is being tightened because of the increase in travel and transport costs, which means that the motorist is increasingly being exploited. We do not consider that to be right or reasonable. Mr President! Mr Asell, I think he has already left, misinterpreted my speech against China and India and other major polluters. I did not present any embargo, but I said that if you were serious about climate change, as we all are, you would take very strong measures against those who really destroy the atmosphere and they are there — not a Finnish plier-punched granny, whose mobility and also, in part, perhaps, your cost for living. It's completely unreasonable. Mr Kontula, this is it, and you scared us that Parliament will end and civilisation will end if we do not make this fuel price increase. You don't get this kind of intimidation in Finland... Of course we have freedom of speech, something like that, but such a model should not appear here. This proposal is detrimental from the point of view of employment, regional development, social and economic point of view, for example from the point of view of businesses and agriculture. This does not contribute to your employment objectives. The Greens seem to be taking this government away like rams from a string. How far are you going to let this happen when there is no such result as this, which would have an impact on climate policy? Voluntary measures, which I myself listed, should be disseminated and done in a variety of ways. For example, Helsinki should stop burning coal by now. Well, it was now decreed that it would end by the end of April 29, but it is now unreasonable to make the granny of pliers pay more, but the people of Helsinki only burn imported coal and pollute with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u310	Mr President! It is somewhat contradictory to hear these comments, which, on the one hand, call for the exit from international agreements and, on the other hand, call for more action from other countries or continents. Yes, this government and the majority of this Parliament are pushing for ways to stick to international agreements in order to influence matters. I do not understand the comments that require one and say another. To Mr Vestman, I would say that you have quite often brought up this one type of injustice, as you describe it. It is worth noting that a very large proportion of young people, elderly people and people with low or medium incomes are also using public transport, so one possibility to approach this issue is, for example, through public transport subsidies and to look a little at this whole package, so that we make mobility for people as a whole as sustainable and fair as possible. Of course, you can't survive everywhere without a car, but a lot of people go by other means. It is also true, as Mr Kontula said earlier here, that a very large proportion of short-distance journeys of less than five kilometres are carried by car when, in very many cases, they could be folded on foot or by bicycle, and this is possible not only in urban areas, but certainly not for everyone. In addition to that, in the spending limits municipalities of Uusimaa, which you are apparently concerned about, young people are concerned about getting around in public transport because young people cannot use their own car. Maybe there's a way to pay attention to this, too. In addition, you pointed out that we should focus on district heat. Of course, it is true that emissions must be reduced in other sectors too, but it is indisputable — if you want to rely on expert knowledge — that measures must also be taken in the field of transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u311	Mr President! Mr Kiviranta, you said here that the tightening of taxation on labour is not the result of government action, you said something like that. However, when I look at this report by the Committee on Finance, of which you are a member, and you have probably been in the process of adopting that report, it is quite clear there that, according to the proposal as a whole, the taxation of labour will increase by around EUR 14300 and by more than EUR 24000 per year. In other words, it has been the choice of the government to choose this way that the increase in the wage and salary earners' side expenses is not fully compensated for these wage and salary earners. It can therefore be concluded that, according to the Government's draft budget, the taxation of these workers who earn more than EUR 24000 per year is actually being tightened. Representative to Kontula on social justice: Indeed, the Coalition Party has proposed a socially just alternative budget. If we look at the situation of a carer who earns between EUR 2000 and EUR 2500 per month and who, for example, drives more than average, according to the alternative budget of the assembly, the increases in fuel tax will add EUR 150 per year, and then, given that the government's budget proposal makes the tax on labour stricter, because the increase in side costs will not be compensated, this option will give this carer 300 more euros a year. So I conclude that for this employee, this nurse, this warehouse manager, who necessarily has to rely on his own car, this option is socially fairer. He will be left with more of his own salary in hand than according to your budget proposal. Have I come to the right conclusion? Representative Ojala-Niemelä said here that Finland has an objective in which transport emissions must be halved. You are absolutely right, and if this is to be achieved, then it really requires action. Personally, I would like to question whether this objective is realistic at all, and this is now a bigger question, specifically as to what are the realistic emission reductions that can be achieved in Finland. Frankly, I do not believe that we can maintain the incentives of the Finnish way of life, our work, the operating conditions of business, entrepreneurship and achieve this target of 50% emission reduction. In other words, this should be realistic and focus on finding those means rather than presenting objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u312	Mr President! Congressman Vestman, you haven't come to the right conclusion. I think the problem here is that you have not exactly explained what social justice is. Look at Wikipedia. Social justice is not the same as a person’s tax rate or the amount left in his hands. Mr Kankaanniemi, you claim that I have intimidated people by the fact that parliamentarianism and civilisation would be threatened if this reform were not carried out. That is not what I said. I said, if there are no greater reforms than this. I did not intimidate, but I made a cautious and justified estimate of the situation we are in at the moment. As for the everyday life of this famous pistachio lady: she must be a pensioner, and since she is a grandmother, she is likely to receive a relatively small pension, and she will be compensated for this increase in the gas tax. But it is worth worrying about these politicians, who are building up rural mobility solely on private cars, because they may still be driving the car today, but tomorrow he may be too old, and at that point he will no longer be able to move from his home when there is no such public transport, but only those who have the right to drive. There is no wise way to build the conditions for mobility on an instrument that is not available to the whole population because part of the population is too young to get it, part of the population is too old or too sick to get it, and some of the population just for some other reason has not received it or have no money to get it. As regards the individual, voluntary climate action described here by Mr Kankaanniemi: It is really great that people have started to change their own behaviour on a large scale in this way. I'm not so worried about people's behavior. I am concerned about the behaviour of politicians. Man’s everyday consumption habits are changing rapidly, and we can be quite proud and happy about that. Instead, I am now pursuing that politicians should play their part in these efforts, and it is also a work for the Finns of Peru, not just the Green Left.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u313	Mr President! Mr Vestman and I will probably have the strength to continue this debate, perhaps for several more minutes or hours, but let me say once again that this government proposal does not increase the tax burden on labour. Then I wonder how the representative Vestman is so ashamed of this kiky agreement, which was therefore also adopted by the social partners, and which has certainly improved the economic development of this country in a very significant way. This has also been widely stated by the technical services. There was an editorial in Helsingin Sanomat at the turn of the week: the recession was canceled. After all, at least in the third quarter of this year — I think that thanks to the kiky agreement — GDP, exports and private investment increased. I also think that the Assembly could recognise that this Kiki agreement has been a good agreement. — Actually, this was what I was going to say.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u314	Mr President! Mr Vestman was thinking about reducing emissions by means of home-made measures, and I would actually like to continue with this myself on a number of points. The emission reduction targets for the EU and its Member States, as well as for a number of major European cities, have guided the automotive industry towards a low-emission car technology. In a country such as Finland, fossil-free traffic is driven by a variety of substitute forces. In the opinion of the SDP, it is essential to adhere to the emission reduction target set in order to reduce emissions from transport. On the other hand, it is of less political significance what technologies achieve this objective. A technology-neutral approach enables industry to develop a number of alternative ways to reduce emissions, and it is even possible to replace passenger cars for people living in the city by the development of public transport and various transport services. When transport services become different travel chains by combining more convenient and comfortable than passenger cars, a significant change in the mode of transport share in urban areas can be achieved in a less emission-friendly direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u315	Mr President! Mr Kiviranta: we are not dealing here today with the kiky agreement, but I can say that I have not been ashamed of it at all here, and I can even say that I understand all the parliamentary parties that were here to approve the kiky agreement last season. I understand you who were here to bless it. On the other hand, your question should perhaps be directed at your government partner, the social democrats, who have repeatedly criticised the Kiky agreement here. Then, to Mr. Kontula, let me clarify my question. Can it not be said that, in terms of taxation, this option of the coalition is socially fairer for this nurse, because she is left with 300 euros a year more in the hands of us than the government's budget proposal? On the other hand, as far as the social justice budget is concerned, this option of ours has taken account of social justice in any other way. Here, EUR 320 million more permanent money is invested in education than in the government budget proposal. Here, access to human treatment is improved, a therapeutic guarantee is funded, which is not included in the government budget proposal. Security is being increased here, the security promise that many parties have made, in fact, even more than that: more than a thousand new police officers are adding this to our alternative budget. Here, the resources of justice, the judicial system are being strengthened and social justice is being strengthened. In other words, I would say that, as a whole, and especially now as regards taxation, at least in the case of this car manager or a warehouseman who lives on his own salary and who necessarily needs that car to get to work and run his daily life, this option is socially fairer.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u316	Mr President! For your information, every year Pahhtiputaan Gramma is selected for one year at a time, and every once in a while a woman living in the village of Muurasjärvi is selected as Grandma, and from there There are 30 kilometres from the Wall Lake to the church village, where all the services are, and there is no steering wheel, no train, hardly a bus, which means that he has to travel quite expensively on that journey and it takes fuel. This is exactly the kind of person you're going to hit with this raise.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u317	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u318	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u319	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u320	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u321	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u322	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u323	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. The basis for this debate is the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on SiVM 7/2019 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u324	Mr President! As chairman of the Committee on Civil Liberties, I will be presenting our report. It is a very long report and I am not going to present it here as a whole, but I recommend getting to know it. I think it is an excellent report. The committee supports the government's proposal to restore the child's subjective right to full-time early education. The amendment concerns not only the right to participate in early childhood education but also the alternative private care support, and requires the amendment of both the Early Childhood Education Act and the Law on home care and private care to the above provisions in order to comply with the provisions prior to the limitation of the right to early childhood education. The purpose of the amendment is that the right of the child to participate in full-time early education does not depend on the work and life situation of the child’s parents or other guardians, the need for support for the child or his or her family, or the municipality of residence of the child. The committee believes that the proposed reform will improve the equal treatment of children under school age and is therefore very necessary. Restoring a full-time subjective right to early childhood education is a measure to promote the enforcement of children's rights. According to the proposal, EUR 7.1 million will be added to the central government shares for 2020 and EUR 17 million from 2021 onwards. The costs will be covered by the full central government contribution as the proposal will extend the statutory tasks of municipalities. However, it should be noted that the impact of the proposed change on different municipalities may be very different depending on whether or not the municipality has a limited right to early childhood education. The committee stresses the need to monitor the cost implications of the change and its timetable. On the basis of the reasons for the Government's proposal and the report it has received, the Committee on Culture considers it necessary and appropriate. The committee supports the adoption of the draft law without amendment. Under the current legislation, each child has the right to participate in early childhood education 20 hours a week. The child has the right to a higher level of early childhood education because of his/her parents’ employment, entrepreneurship or study, or because of the child’s individual needs or the circumstances of his/her family. The possibility for municipalities to limit the right to early childhood education as described above entered into force on 1 August 2016. This change was justified by the fact that the protection of the right to early childhood education by 20 hours per week is sufficient for each child and family, taking into account economic realities. The total annual savings from the restriction under the central government participation system were estimated to result precisely from the fact that a change in the right to early childhood education of 10800 children would result in savings of around EUR 62 million from 2017. As regards private care support, savings were estimated to be approximately EUR 1 million from 2017. However, the limitation of the right to early childhood education did not achieve the pre-estimated effects. One key factor in this was that almost all municipalities did not restrict the right to early childhood education in the way possible by law, but maintained the right as it had been before the law amendment. According to the responses of early childhood education workers, limiting the right to early childhood education has also increased the amount of administrative work, the burden of work and the challenge of working in a group of children. This is explained, among other things, by the report on the impact of changes in the legislation of early childhood education, which has therefore been carried out by the Government of Finland’s study and research activities — or by the publication whose number is 78/2017, and its name is such a stable Vaivai survey that has examined these effects. Mr President! The committee considers that the limitation of the right to early childhood education has not demonstrated the cost savings anticipated in advance, which was the starting point, and that the restriction has also been problematic, particularly for children and families with children. This SSA study also indicates that changes to the legislation in 2016 would have had negative effects on children. In particular, the situation of child groups in day care centres seems challenging in the light of the research results. More diversity has emerged in the composition of day-care groups as a result of the increase in part-time and part-time children and children covered by the extended early childhood education law. In addition, the number of children in the group has increased in some municipalities. From the children’s point of view, the number of social relationships has become excessive in large and changing groups. Employees also estimate that their chances of meeting children on an individual basis have narrowed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u325	Mr President! When I was 5 years old, I participated in the day care movement demonstration in this house with my mother and little sister. This group, consisting mainly of mothers of small children, fought with equality actors to ensure that the day care of each child is secured in Finland. I had a note hanging around my neck that said, "I want a safe place to stay." In the 1980s, it was almost impossible to get a day care place, and my mother has told me how she and other mothers glued to a lamp pole such reports that they would get a nurse home so that they could work. I often say that children's subjective day care rights were the result of decades of struggle and the finest equality achievements in Finland. That is why the moment the previous government decided to touch that court was so shocking to many. Early childhood education is, above all, the right of the child, which cannot be changed depending on how the labour market status of the parents changes. It is great that some municipalities did not go down the road of delimitation, but the child’s right to early education cannot depend on the municipality of residence either. It is characteristic of Finland that municipalities have developed their own local ways of supporting and directing family child care choices. Research has also shown that municipalities have developed their own child care and early childhood education cultures. This is a problem for the equality of children. For example, for reasons of savings, many municipalities direct children to home care support, even though it is often these children who would benefit from early childhood education. From next August, families will be allowed to choose and define their needs for early childhood education throughout the country. We, the authors of the government program, believe that families should be trusted and not come from outside to determine the right of the child to early education. This is of enormous importance to the child-friendlyness of society. We see that the rights of the child cannot be spared. The Left Alliance aims to increase the participation rate of early childhood education, and the subjective right to early childhood education also plays an essential role in achieving this goal. Studies show that all children benefit from a high level of pedagogical early childhood education. Especially effective are children whose growth environment has factors that hamper their development, such as parental drug abuse or health problems or social interactions. High-quality early childhood education has been identified as an important, if not the most important, factor to prevent further exclusion. Restoring the right to subjective early childhood education is also important from the point of view of improving employment, given that active and flexible early childhood education services improve employment, especially for women. However, restoring the right to subjective early childhood education is not enough on its own, but we need to consider ways of facilitating the reconciliation of the family and work of the parents of the small school children working in shift work in particular. In particular, it will be difficult for single parents to accept shift work if a small school student has to stay at home alone for the night. It is therefore wonderful that the Committee on Education made a statement on this in the report. The report by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Citizens' Rights points out that, according to the answers given by early childhood education workers, limiting the right to early childhood education has increased the amount of administrative work, the burden of work and the challenge of working in a group of children. Parents’ assessments of the limitation of justice are very critical. Children’s equality, the permanence of peer relations and the decrease in children’s and adults’ relationships have caused concern, for example. These are fundamental questions when it comes to the quality of early childhood education. It was also great, because of the equality of children, that the Committee on Education made a statement in its report on the unclear situation in early childhood education of vulnerable children. This was a concern that arose particularly in the expert hearings. The committee also added a statement on this, which requires the Government to clarify and clarify, for example, the protection of the right to early childhood education for children of asylum seekers. Mr President! From next August, the equal right of children to early childhood education is once again guaranteed by law and not one child is separated from another group or from early childhood education because of the background conditions of the parents.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u326	Mr President! Today is a historic day in many ways, and today is historic precisely because today Parliament is dealing with two very unfair laws for the citizens and at the same time correcting them. One is where the parliament burys the active law, and the other is this bill on the table, which restores the subjective right of each child to early education. In that sense, one might say that today is a good day. I agree with the chairman of the committee that the report by the Committee on Culture is a good one, and I also welcome the statements which, in concrete terms, include the rights of immigrants, asylum seekers, children to early childhood education. In this way, we will also strengthen the rights of children in Finland. Mr President! ‘Children who are onlyconcrete in the future. Not that we care for your children and my children. It's about our kids, all our kids, every button. Children must therefore be given priority.” That is what the former Swedish Prime Minister, Olof Palme, said in his day. It is great to see how, in line with this requirement, children and children's rights will be given priority in the proposal before us to amend the early childhood education law. The importance of early childhood education for the child’s future learning and school success has been widely demonstrated in international and national studies. Early investments in education also have a significant impact on later training. Finland’s success depends largely on the level of education and competence of our nation. Nevertheless, the participation of children in early childhood education in Finland is at a low level in terms of European participation. Mr President! The child’s right to full-time early education must not depend on the work situation of his/her parents or other guardians, the need for support or the municipality of residence of the child. Equal treatment of children should play a key role in the debate on early childhood education. Last season, however, Parliament restricted the child’s right to early childhood education. When examining the consequences of the decision, it has been found that the effects on children have been negative. Early childhood education workers estimate that their chances of meeting children on an individual basis have decreased. Children's parents, on the other hand, estimated that children's equality had deteriorated and that the decision had had a negative impact on children's growth, development and learning. Early childhood education should create a safe transition towards basic education for the child. Subjective early childhood education enables every child to have equal opportunities and opportunities to cope with basic education. Effectiveness is greatest when as many children as possible are in early childhood education. The right to participate in early childhood education is particularly important for children who have lower starting points than others. Mr President! According to the newly published Pisa study, Finnish young people's literacy is still good, but the share of weak readers has increased worryingly. The differences between girls and boys in literacy are the largest in the OECD countries. Learning differences between schools are small in Finland, but the socio-economic impact has increased according to the results. This trend must be halted, and that is what we are trying to do. This involves essentially early childhood education. Providing high-quality early childhood education for all children, taking care of the rights and equality of the child, is one step towards changing the direction. In addition, other investments in early childhood education, basic education, secondary education and higher education are needed to improve the level of education and competence of Finns. We must ensure the growth, development and educational path of children and young people as a whole. Mr President! In order to safeguard the rights of the child, it is also important to strengthen parents’ awareness of the importance of early childhood education for the child’s growth, development and learning. It is not just a social service or support for a parent's employment; the importance of early childhood education is educational and educational. It is an integral part of the growth and development of our children, it is an integral part of our education system. Children start school from increasingly different backgrounds. Early childhood education is part of the foundation on which their well-being and development are built. It will help us to support educational equality and lifelong learning. With high-quality early childhood education, we can effectively improve the learning opportunities of the child in his or her school path. It will also help to prevent possible exclusion. Mr President! The long-term goal of social democrats is to get Finnish early childhood education at European level, taking into account the rights of the child. The decision to restore subjective early childhood education is one step towards this objective. It is an investment in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u327	Mr President! The government's proposal is good and worthy of support. I have been pleased that the subjective day care right was not initially limited in my own hometown of Helsinki, but it is particularly great that the right is now being restored everywhere in Finland. After all, the first friendships and relationships outside the family are often made in a day - care and day care centre. In order to make it possible for all children to have equal opportunities for good life and to combat our major common challenge of exclusion, it is essential to invest in the origins of early childhood education. And as the report of the Committee on Education wisely points out, early childhood education does not only support children but also the well-being of families. Of course, the situation in each family is different, and every child is different, and it is important to make it possible for all families to have an equal choice. The accessibility of early childhood education is also essential for families: the availability of a day-care centre near home and close to a job. In many cities in Finland, there are still a huge number of challenges. And one day we will hopefully also have a free early childhood education for all children, with the entire age group participating.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u328	Mr President! The definition of subjective day care is one of the most incomprehensible projects in recent years. It was not originally expected to bring significant direct savings, but it was clear from the outset that it would melt down to the fact that parents could not accept shrapnel work for lack of a place of care. And when we know that fragmentation is a key route to the open labour market, it has significant negative effects on employment. In addition to this, the reform focused precisely on the most vulnerable part of the population: the low-income people and the low-income people. The reform was so absurd that a significant number of municipalities did not introduce it, which has been the most positive aspect of this disaster. Where the definition of subjective day care was implemented, we have been able to read again and again about practices in which day care systems are created according to the socio-economic background of children. I am very glad that we are at this point now that this madness is being overcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u329	Mr President! Participation in planned and targeted early childhood education is the right of the child. I have sometimes been allowed to take grandchildren to early childhood education, and they have been very happy to go there. High-quality early childhood education is a good start to the path of continuous learning and to increasing the membership of society. We must develop the entire school path and early childhood education as its beginning. According to the legislation currently in force, every child has the right to participate in early childhood education 20 hours a week. This is exactly how my own grandchildren have been involved. The child has been entitled to more extensive early childhood education because of his/her parents’ employment, entrepreneurship or study, or because of the child’s individual needs or the circumstances of his/her family. The possibility for municipalities to limit this right to early childhood education entered into force in August 2016. This change was justified by the fact that it is sufficient for the child and the family, taking into account the realities of the economy. For some it has been enough, for some it has not been enough. The limitation of the right to early childhood education did not achieve the pre-estimated effects. Not all municipalities ruled out justice. The restriction was implemented by 135 municipalities from 250 municipalities in Mainland Finland, which covered approximately five-and-a-half thousand children. According to employees, limiting the right to early childhood education has increased administrative work, including the burden of work and the challenge of working with children. The composition of day care groups has become diverse as there are more part-time and part-time children. There has been an increase in the number of children in groups, and the number of children’s social relationships has also sometimes even become unreasonable. Employees estimated that their chances of meeting children on an individual basis were reduced. Concerns were about the smallest children, children in need of special support and children in need of support for learning Finnish. Children’s parents estimated that equality weakened in relation to other children, their peer relations decreased or their permanence decreased, and all of this had negative effects on their growth, development and learning. This proposal seeks to restore the subjective right to early childhood education, but also changes the support for home care and private care. The regulation on private care support under the Child Home Care and Private Care Act will be amended to reflect this subjective right. A higher level of support would be paid in support of private care when a child participates in early childhood education full-time. It is good that early childhood education will continue to be organised on a part-time or reduced basis when the child participates in early childhood education in addition to pre-school education or basic education. There has also been talk of shift care. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs hopes that its need and implementation will be examined. The Education Committee supported this proposal and it is good that the right of children to participate in this full-time early education does not depend on the work or life situation of the child's parents or other guardians, the need for the support of the child or his or her family, or the municipality of residence of the child. In this way, the reform will improve the equal treatment of children under school age and will therefore be necessary. The Committee's expert hearings pointed out that it is good to note that the impact of the proposed change on different municipalities may vary depending on whether or not the municipality has so far limited the right to early childhood education. The committee therefore stressed the need to monitor the cost implications of the change and its timetable. This early education is in the best interests of the child. Of course, families should still be allowed to decide for themselves how to care for their children. If a parent takes care of children at home, participating in part-time early childhood education is a good thing, as has been the case until now. This is all about building a child-friendly Finland. I support this proposal. It's preventative work so no one falls. It's an investment for tomorrow. For the children's sake, it's a good idea to open tomorrow's door.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u330	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u331	Mr President! This amendment to the Act on early childhood education will restore the child's subjective right to full-time early childhood education. It's been gone for a few years. It is a matter of great importance to the Social Democrats, and it has also been discussed before the elections, and now it is being implemented: the right to full-time early education is being restored to all children. The purpose of the amendment is that the right of the child to participate in full-time early education does not depend on the work or life situation of the child’s parents or other guardians, the need for the support of the child or his or her family, or the municipality of residence of the child. The reform improves the equal treatment of children under school age and is therefore very welcome and necessary. The municipalities will have some costs for this, but the Government Programme states that when the statutory tasks are extended, they will also be fully replaced. Thus, for example, EUR 7.1 million will be added to the central government transfers for next year. However, it is good to take into account the effects of different municipalities, because in parts of municipalities this right to early childhood education is not limited, even if it has been possible, but has been seen as having the right to early childhood education for everyone. It has previously been thought to be more than EUR 60 million in savings, i.e. in 2016, when the municipalities have had the opportunity to limit this. However, this has not happened, and the reason is indeed that many municipalities have maintained its service, as before 2016. Here, too, the survey of parents has become a critical point of view when that right is limited. The effects highlighted a deterioration in children's equality with other children if they have not achieved early education, for example because of the lack of job creation of a mother or father, the reduction in the permanence of children's peer relations, the negative impact on the growth, development and learning of children, the reduction in the permanence of adult-child relationships and the deterioration of children's well-being. This is a very good change. As the father of three children, I can say — and everyone has also been in day care in early childhood education — that I have been satisfied and I do not understand the fear of this early childhood education in certain areas, so that it is thought that the only place that is right is at home. I'm sure it's good to be with the family at home, it's true, but when you're a mother unemployed or a father unemployed, for example, it limits the fact that children don't get into early childhood education like this, where you learn different things, you get new friends and you can also learn social relationships. It's definitely important. Then, too, you can support the family and the child if you find that there are problems. If there is a special need for support or other, then there is such a low threshold then for other services. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u332	Mr President! The Early Childhood Education Act emphasises the primacy of the child’s best interests, and this limitation of subjective day care rights and the increase of groups of over 3 years of age by the Sipilä Government is flagrantly opposed to this principle. The limitation of the subjective right to day care led to the fact that children were no longer in an equal position, but that municipal solutions differed. Not all children had equal rights to quality early childhood education regardless of background, parental labour market status and place of residence. It is therefore a positive decision in the everyday life of families with children to abolish the limitation of subjective day care rights and reduce the number of groups in early childhood education, to continue piloting of two-year pre-school education in the context of the early childhood education project and to extend the experiment on free early childhood education for five-year-olds. These are such good steps for our little ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u333	Mr President! During the previous term of government, the weakening of subjective early childhood education rights and group sizes may also have revealed a harsh language of incomprehensibleness. It affected families who especially need early childhood education support, children who need support in learning languages, for example. It is a great thing that this debate has moved forward and that early childhood education is recognised both in council halls and here in Parliament as the right of children and as a truly central part of learning. In Helsinki, we were appalled at this performance in the city council and, so to speak, we engaged in a rebellion. We did not accept that the subjective right to early childhood education should be undermined or that group sizes should be increased. And so, perhaps after the example of this and other cities, many other cities and municipalities did. It is also great that, during this term of government, the reform of family leave will finally be renewed. Parents can choose both careers and children, and this should be encouraged. Last weekend at the playground, I had a conversation with a family I didn't know about who had moved to Helsinki a month ago. One of the parents had come here to work. One of the parents wondered if he could get a day care place for his child and find a job when he does not speak Finnish. It is very important for employment that it is easy and quick to get a place for early childhood education close to home. This is also an important point of view. If families are confronted with uncertainty as to whether their right to early childhood education can be obtained at a reasonable distance, at least that will not make it easier for them to find employment. And if we are talking about wanting to strengthen employment opportunities for those who move here too, then we cannot avoid the debate on the right to early childhood education. In Helsinki, we have also discussed the need for such areas of nearby day care, and we have made a policy on this. Just as all children are entitled to a local school, the right to a local day-care centre should also be available. Many cities have gone to a service voucher model, which has not only brought good results and good experiences. We know that, on average, private day care centres pay quite significantly lower wages to early childhood education professionals, who already have far too little pay in terms of education and the demand for work. Marketisation is in the so-called basic services, or could you say in education, quite challenging. I think we should consider models where we go towards the foundation model, for example, along with the city's own day-care centres. In addition, we need considerably more places to start early childhood education to fill the shortage of workers. Of course, this too is not enough, but we also need to increase the value of work and to bring it more into line with education and education, and certainly not with the kind of place of custody that we are still talking about and perhaps one day in this Chamber, at least to think about whether a home would be a good place for children to be. It is important to get ready for the school path, and here we still have work to do in Finland. But, of course, this objective requires not only the right to early childhood education, but also the need for sufficiently small group sizes, and it requires resources, and it requires that this rather alarming situation can be resolved in the wake of the shortage of early childhood education professionals, early childhood education teachers. In this respect, I do not think we can ignore the fact that work must also be paid a decent salary in addition to all these other means which I have already listed here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u334	Mr President! I would also like to draw attention to these excellent statements made by the committee and then to the protest made by the Group of the Finns Party. Too bad there are no representatives of the Finns on hand. But we did indeed add a statement to the effect that the right to early childhood education must be carried out on an equal footing and that this should also be clarified and the measures taken to ensure that this right is implemented, particularly in the case of asylum seekers. We know that there are very different practices here in the municipalities. In the protest of the Finns Party, the services of Finnish society belong to Finns and foreigners legally residing in Finland who contribute to the financing of the services by paying taxes. At this point I would like to remind you that the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution apply in principle to every person, not every Finn, not every holder of a residence permit, but every person, and so is the human rights guaranteed by international human rights treaties. In addition, the right to early childhood education is the right of the child, and the priority of the child’s best interests required by the agreement on the rights of the child means that decisions concerning the child must put the child’s best interests at the centre of the child’s interests and other interests. Then to this second statement on the organisation of shift care. Here we know that it is also difficult for many municipalities to provide day-care care, it is not what it should be, but the committee specifically discussed the situation of these small primary school children whose parents work in shift jobs or who live in a family of one parent, where most mothers work in shift jobs. Yes, we do have a situation where parents may find themselves in a situation where they cannot accept work because they do not want to leave that child alone for the evening at home or for the night at home. This is also a major issue of social policy when we consider these employment measures. And it is also true, as was said in the committee, that the Child Welfare Act does not at present define the age of a child to be left alone at home, and each of us can imagine that such a first-classer should not spend long hours alone at night, let alone spend the night at home,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u335	Mr President! When I quickly presented this report of ours, when we talk about this peace of work for early education and its development, I would also like to point out here that it is stated that, now that we have a free early childhood education experiment and a two-year pre-school experiment in plans, it is really important that we should concentrate on them and that we should have sufficient funding for them. And yes, I personally see that it is quite important that we have free early childhood education at some point. It would be a future — it would be the right future. For example, when asked where they would put money if they had the money, American economic researchers say that in early years of early education and early years. That is why I am so very much in favour of us considering how we can further promote this early childhood education. Good speeches have been made here. Well, we did have these statements here, and here was the clarification of this equal treatment, and here we used the example of these children of asylum seekers, and I am just taking an example of why I am in favour of clarifying it because there are very different practices. Our Constitution says that the necessary care and care must be ensured for everyone, and children are, of course, in a very vulnerable position. Take, for example, the situation of asylum seekers who may be in a reception center. It is quite different to be in some big reception centre with hundreds of people than in Helsinki in a single room, which can also be a reception centre. That process may take years when different courts take place. That is why I say that this is such a thing that if we think that we will then integrate them, and children in particular, and adults, then it does mean that you will receive language education and then you will also get opportunities for this early childhood education, but of course you always have to look at it individually. There are now very different practices. There are also different practices on how to deal with helping the undocumented. In this, I quite disagree with what some people are — what should then be offered — but fortunately we are not discussing them here, but we are talking about asylum seekers, for example. But it is good to find out, and this applies not only to asylum seekers but to all other children who move from one city to another. All in all, at the time when I was the minister of basic services and I was responsible for early childhood education, it was extended to go to another municipality, apply for early childhood education and day care, because it was reasonable that if the mother went in the other direction, the father would leave the child there and not go back. But with these. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u336	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. On 3 December 2019 the President of the Republic granted the resignation to the Government of Prime Minister Antti Rinte and asked it to continue as the Minister of Delivery. That is why Prime Minister Rinne has announced that he will no longer be able to answer the interlocutory question pending in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u337	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report TyVM 4/2019 vp by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u338	Mr President! The Act introduces the missing provisions on the night work transport of workers into the legislative reform of the working time law that will come into force at the turn of the year. This is therefore a rather unproblematic patchwork law. However, in the overall reform of the Working Time Act, according to the committee's consultation, a number of other needs were identified, including the criminalisation of the violation of the emergency labour provision, in connection with its work on clarification and modernisation. Therefore, the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities proposes to make a statement: ‘The Commission requires that the government prepares the necessary changes in order to correct shortcomings in the working time law during the2020 period.’
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u339	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on MmVM 4/2019 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u340	Madam President! Briefly and succinctly: In Finland, we are accustomed to the idea that food is clean and we know where it comes from. It is important that attention is also paid to the grey economy in the food sector, because the price of the grey economy is ultimately paid by honest entrepreneurs and consumers, not to mention the welfare of farmed animals. The reliability of the food business operator should be taken for granted, but unfortunately this is not the case. In its report, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry proposes, inter alia, that ‘the operator should not be held to be trusted if he has,in the course of the preceding three years, given evidence of incontestability to ensuring food security Three years is a very long time, and if we talk about farm animals, it is at its worst three years of torture. I would like this grey economy in the food sector to be looked at in a particularly robust way. Clean food is sacred to us Finns, and its ethical purity must also be ensured. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u341	The 16th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 11/2019 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u342	Mr President! This is, in fact, the report of the Administrative Committee, but since the Committee on Culture gave its opinion on it, I would like to tell you what we said in that opinion and how it has contributed. In other words, making fixed-term reductions permanent is the problem, which means that the committee will draw the attention of the Administrative Committee to the reductions in the state contributions of the municipality to be dealt with in the government proposal which have been made in order to finance certain projects. The report then lists the types of projects that have been financed by these state transfers and they have been temporary reductions in the share of the state. Well, then it is said here that the government proposal proposes that Article 36 the abovementioned items on time reductions are repealed. It then tells us which of these temporary reductions would become permanent deductions. There was no doubt there that projects which in principle have already ceased suddenly became permanent reductions in the share of the state. Therefore, the Committee on Education believes that although the items proposed for permanent deductions in euros mentioned above are not large and the intentions for spending are justified, the criteria and needs for financing the activities to be re-sourced by the reductions in the state contribution should be reviewed annually. This is also relevant for the future, when a similar model for funding activities can be used for other destinations in the future. The Committee considers it necessary for the Committee on Administration to examine in its report the criteria for reducing the central government shares of municipalities in order to finance projects at central government level. Well, I'm sure this is easy to take from state contributions to various projects, but I really hope that the money will actually be found, that there will not be any need to take it out of the state transfers, and then, especially if those projects stop, those reductions will not become permanent, because it will always be out of the state transfers. We gave such an opinion to the Administrative Committee, and thank you, the Administrative Committee has taken note of this. Turning fixed-term reductions into permanent reductions is stated here in the report, so it is listed here. Of course, I would have liked the Administrative Committee to have been able to make a statement on this, because, in my opinion, this is so big that at least this should be explained how big it is. These are small amounts of money, but they may affect the municipalities. This is a bit of a matter of principle. I myself would have thought that this would have been the place to be said in the Committee on Administration, even if it was a very neutral place for clarification or evaluation, but there is no such place here. But it is worth keeping this in mind in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u343	The 20th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 15/2019 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u344	Mr President! This Government proposal deals with changes to the Incomes Information System. There are good changes here in the direction that, for example, the workload of clubs and associations and such extra bureaucracy are now being slightly dismantled in comparison to what it would have been according to previous decisions. So clubs, for example, have received feedback that if you organize the competitions and even if a few tens of dollars is awarded to a competitor, this will be a terrible filling-in and clearing-up for the tax authorities, and of course the same has happened since the winner of the prize. Now here is the line that competition awards worth up to EUR 100 do not have to be entered in the Incomes Register. It makes it very easy for the clubs and helps in that regard. This is a good change. And it is also done here that either the recipient of those prizes, when it comes to such small prizes, does not need to make very big statements on tax returns or does not really at all if there is less than a hundred dollars. That's a good change, to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u345	The 21st item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Presentation, the first signatory of the initiative, Mr Tanus, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u346	Madam President! In this bill we propose that the benefit for coeliac disease be reimbursed in such a way that the right to a coeliac allowance is granted to a person 16 years of age or older who has been duly identified as having celiac or skin disease and therefore it is absolutely necessary to continue using gluten-free products only. The coeliac allowance would be EUR 31 per month and could be paid at the same time as disability allowance or care allowance. A separate provision would be made for applying for compensation. At this very early stage, I would like to express my great thanks to all those Members who signed the initiative. After all, there are 67 signatures. Thanks a lot for that. Celiac disease is a serious hereditary autoimmune disease, the only treatment being a lifelong, absolutely accurate gluten-free diet. A very small amount of gluten in the diet is sufficient to trigger a small intestine-damaged reaction and to endanger the health of a coeliac patient. Untreated or poorly treated celiac disease increases the risk of suffering from many other serious diseases, such as osteoporosis, anaemia, depression, or intestinal cancer. In addition to stomach problems, untreated coeliac disease also causes infertility, nervous system symptoms, joint diseases and facial disorders in children or delayed puberty. At the beginning of 2016, the government abolished the coeliac allowance that people with coeliac disease had been able to apply for since 2002 to cover the significant additional costs of a gluten-free diet. At the end of 2015, the number of recipients of the dietary allowance was 34520, according to Kela's statistics. It is estimated that this year, in 2019, there would be 38500 people with celiac disease who have been properly diagnosed. Celiac disease can be detected by measuring antibodies to celiac disease in the blood, by examining a biopsy of the small intestine or, correspondingly, by examining a biopsy of the skin. According to the 2017 price survey, the cost of celiac treatment is approximately EUR 62 per month, or EUR 744 per year. So celiac disease is an autoimmune disease. There are several autoimmune diseases in use and the society supports their treatment with a special reimbursement of medicines of 65 or 100 %. The coeliac agent is a gluten-free diet and should therefore be compared with the medical treatment prescribed by the doctor and the additional cost of the diet of coeliac agents should be compared to the reimbursement of medical benefits for other severe and long-term illnesses. Celiac disease is also a hereditary disease, and therefore the importance of celiac disease compensation for treating the disease is particularly emphasised in families with children. In addition to families with children, the importance of celiac disease compensation is emphasised especially for low incomes, students, unemployed and pensioners. It should also be noted that supplementary diseases caused by untreated or poorly treated celiac disease cause significant additional costs for society in terms of medical visits, research costs, medical reimbursements and absenteeism. This year, in fact very recently, a new, most recent price survey was completed and it showed that gluten-free prices have come down slightly but that a gluten-free diet is still costing more than 700 euros a year, i.e. nearly 60 euros a month. This is a very significant sum, especially when we think of low incomes, students and pensioners, or families with more than one celiac accompaniment. At this point I would like to remind you that this amounts to EUR 15 million per year of state resources. If it is compared with the possible additional diseases caused by celiac disease when untreated or poorly treated, it is a very small amount to be paid for celiac disease. I would also like to point out that it is time for the election vows to be redeemed, because before the parliamentary elections, the Social Democrats, the RKP, the Left-wing Union and the Greens were clearly in favour of the restoration of the celiac compensation and, according to our information, it was until the very last evening in the Government Programme, but something happened, and on the last night that the refund of the celiac compensation was changed into the entry ‘The need for the compensation to be paid’, and this is the meaning of the government programme. According to our information, in some way this study has been started, but at what stage it is or at which stage it is completed, there is no information about it. I would now say, and I would appeal to you, that 67 Members of Parliament have signed this bill and indeed have been supported by many parties before the parliamentary elections. In addition, we Christian Democrats, the Coalition Party and the Basic Finns also have a celiac allowance in our alternative budget. And as has been said, many, many celiacs around the country are awaiting the return of this celiac allowance. If we think that the extra costs exceed EUR 700 per year, the amount is really high, especially for low incomes, and anyone with celiac disease should be able to take care of his health and treat his illness with the necessary precision and must not be affected by family incomes. I therefore appeal to you this way in the run-up to Christmas: the money is tight in many families and, of course, in our society too, but this investment is certainly something that relieves that human anxiety and suffering, contributes to the treatment of this disease, and in our society it is a very small investment. In other words, I would argue that this allowance for coeliac disease could be returned as soon as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-04-ps-75.u347	Madam President! I am in favour of Mr Tanus' bill. This is a good thing. I am not sure if I have signed it myself, but it is also for the celiacs that we Finns are fundamental Finns. We know that celiac disease is an incurable disease, which is treated as a special diet, and a special diet entails considerable additional costs for celiacs, which society has previously reimbursed, but there is currently no such compensation, and we too have increased 2 million in our own alternative budget, but it is too little. That's how we go along with Congressman Tanus.
