ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u2	Madam President! The proceedings include a proposal by the Board of Directors to amend the Act on Pension Insurance Companies and some related laws. [Fresh—The President-in-Office] The principles of corporate governance of employment pension schemes are not very comprehensively laid down in the legislation in force, but rather the principles of corporate governance are largely left to the employment pension institutions themselves. The Government's proposal proposes sufficiently comprehensive and uniform provisions for employment pension institutions. According to the proposal, all employment pension schemes should have at least general corporate governance principles. In addition, where an employment pension institution invests in shares of target entities that are traded on a regulated market in the EEA State, the employment pension institution should provide more detailed information in the principles of ownership management.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u3	Mr President! It is good that the rules of employment pension schemes are clarified. However, we are talking about almost EUR 200 billion... [Fresh—The President-in-Office] We have a lot of long-lived women on the public side, with high pension expenditure. Similarly, there are much lower pension costs for special sectors such as soldiers and firefighters. We will have to resolve their fate in the future, especially in this situation, where we have already had a large number of health workers moving to the private side, and whether or not we are going to achieve social reform, the same direction will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u4	Madam President! This bill is welcome and shows that the government is working until the end, as is the Parliament. The most important security for the functioning of the occupational pension system is that new jobs are created in Finland and that every person who is able to work can also get to work. Indeed, the aim of this government proposal is to increase the transparency and transparency of the activities of the employment pension institutions responsible for implementing statutory occupational pension provision, the timeliness of reporting and public reliability. And in order to achieve these objectives, the very important objectives, thanks to Mr Mattila, that this proposal should indeed be submitted to Parliament, we really need to lay down new more precise regulations on the principles of corporate governance and extend regulation not only to employment pension insurance companies, but also to other employment pension institutions and to state pension funds. Mr President! In this referral debate, I would like to say that, indeed, more transparent corporate governance strengthens the relationship between the shareholder and the investee company and also improves overall investment protection. And I very much welcome the fact that the principles of corporate governance will also be extended to those employment pension institutions which are not subject to obligations at the moment, and this will indeed create a more level playing field for investment and the market. Finally, that level playing field will contribute to the stability and predictability of financial markets and will also increase investor protection. In other words, I welcome this proposal, but it is important that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy go through this carefully.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u5	Madam President! I was going through this from this preparatory section. It is usually a good way of commenting on the way in which the interested parties have commented on the matter. I noticed that it is mentioned here that the draft has been sent to the Legislative Review Council, which is associated with the Prime Minister's Office in the course of the consultation, but has not delivered an opinion on the proposal. I believe that there have been very many legislative proposals here in Parliament which have been discussed as to whether the drafting of the law has been competent and correct and good. I should like to ask you, Minister, whether you still think there is anything to be corrected in this draft law and why, for example, the Legislative Evaluation Council has not now delivered its opinion on this. The impact assessment is very important and is one of the tasks of the Evaluation Council. Is there something like that? Amongst other things, you can find comments on this law under these terms in the section Against or Reservoir.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u6	Madam President! Here Mr Järvinen was concerned about the allocation of pensions. Yes, I would also raise this level of pensions for future generations, the level of pensions for young people, the level of pensions for young people today, who are wondering whether they are going to receive a pension at all. Here's what I'm talking about. This revision of the regulations is most welcome and it harmonises. As Mr Sarkomaa said here, this is a very good proposal and brings the necessary reform and continues this policy of streamlining and clarifying the government and is in that sense welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u7	Madam President! As colleagues have said earlier, careful and long-term management of occupational pension funds is in the interests of the nation as a whole. And of course it is important that investment strategies and corporate governance principles are transparent and transparent. In this context, of course, it is also appropriate to discuss the way in which we can today ensure that future pension resources are on a sustainable basis. And then we will talk about how we can ensure that we have an increase in birth rates and how we can ensure that those young people who are working or of working age actually get to work there and that there is no such thing as what is unfortunately often happening today, that we have a large number of young people who are completely excluded, and the number of these young people's disability pensions, which are often the cause of mental health problems, has unfortunately been on the increase. And these are the issues that need to be addressed within such an occupational pension scheme. There has also been a lot of debate about the recent increase in the number of applications for disability pensions, and even estimates have been made that, for example, the active model might have had some background in this increase in the number of applications for disability pensions. I do not know whether the Minister will be able to comment on this in this context, but this is something that should probably be clarified. Among other things, the management of employment pension companies has expressed concerns about the sudden upward rise in the number of these disability pensions and their applications. All in all, this bill is certainly one that is in order and is further strengthening the consistency and long-termity of the principles of corporate governance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u8	Madam President! At the end of June last year, employment pension funds had 202 billion capital, and this is of course a very significant sum in the national economy. Pensions are paid at around EUR 15 billion and the same amount is collected by contributions to these funds each year. This flow of income is, in a way, a flow through these figures — as far as it is concerned — and then the key question is how this capital, which has been collected from those who have worked in the past and are currently working, will continue to produce as well as it has produced today. I checked that at the end of 2010 pension funds had a total of EUR 136 billion, and now 202 billion, eight years later. It makes about 8 billion per year for growth, investment returns, funds — it is a huge sum — and our future pension policy, of course, largely depends on this. We cannot assume that pensions will be cut — at least the Finns themselves are not prepared to do so, even though the pension ceiling itself could be in place — but we cannot increase pension contributions uncontrollably, but we must take a long-term approach to ensuring employment and business opportunities as well. The fact that pension funds will continue to be invested productively and securely is an important task both for pension companies and for the supervisory authority, and I hope that this legislation will strengthen and promote this. On the other hand, I would like to point out that about half of the pension funds have been invested abroad and the other half, more or less, in the country of origin. I have myself wondered whether it would be possible to make use of pension funds for the national economy as a whole, for example, so that they could be used in an appropriate way to improve the basic infrastructure, for example for large transport projects. They do not produce exactly the kind of direct return that is derived from foreign investment, but they do benefit the national economy, and an increase in employment could even make a better return.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u9	Madam President! This government proposal is certainly very good, and it is good to look more closely at these matters relating to occupational pension insurance companies from the point of view of corporate governance as well as public and investment. After all, we have a real significant increase in employment pension funds, and not only do we really need to take care of the pensions of future pensioners, but I believe we should also take much better care of pensions for current pensioners, especially the large number of pensioners living in pensioner poverty in today's welfare state. We have a very significant number of pensioners whose daily income is well-knived. And just as the previous speaker pointed out, I too would have liked to have highlighted where these huge pension funds are invested. After all, most of our pension funds are currently invested abroad and used there, and I have already pointed out in this Chamber, as I have already said, whether it would be possible to start negotiations with a larger proportion of these funds which would benefit the domestic market and domestic pensioners — for example, some of the investments that would really make it easier for pensioners today to make their daily living. We have a lot of options. I would think that, when we look at this proposal and look at the future use of the assets of occupational pension insurance companies, we would have a much wider range of investment opportunities available to us and, in particular, opportunities to invest in the country of origin in such a way that it would benefit all of us and, of course, above all the current and future pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u10	Madam President! It's a good conversation. When talking about pension funds, it should be remembered that they are collected from employers and employees in a broadly equal amount and are legally to be invested in a productive and secure way. But more and more important for their money in the future is that as many Finns as possible work and make these payments at the same time, because for the sustainability of the system mass unemployment would be really harmful, really harmful. That is why I hope that, when the good work done by this government has led to the employment rate now rising to 72, even though two years ago in this Chamber it was quite openly laughed at the impossible task — well, now it has been carried out — the goal of the next government, which must be marked in the government programme, is that the employment rate will reach the stated target of 75%, to which Prime Minister Sipilä has often referred. I hope, therefore, that Parliament will address this serious challenge more and more during the coming parliamentary term, because if we want a sustainable pension system in this country to be maintained, it means that the employment rate must also rise even higher and that as many Finns as possible must start acquiring their own pension cover as young as possible, because it is the only sustainable way in which he can make a good pension and keep this nation's ability to pay well. And as Mr Kangasniemi said in his own speech, it would be quite desirable for pension companies to invest in such long-term investments, such as core networks and lines or other such projects. Their return is probably not the best, but the risk is quite small, and it would also work for the nation all the time, and that is why I hope that more and more attention will be paid to this in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u11	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen spoke well here. I can agree with his thoughts. Indeed, pension companies have very large funds to manage, and it is essential that knowledge and good governance are used in all respects. Perhaps we have a different administration of pension companies from other countries in that we also have a central role to play in the administration of the interest groups there. I don't think there's a system like this anywhere else in the world. But even in this system, we must ensure that the expertise in the management of the company is precisely sufficient and good. As far as Mr Kankaanniemi's view is concerned, which is a little short-lived and relates to the possible use of occupational pension funds, such as profitable transport investments, we know that there are profitable transport investments in Finland where investment is profitable and also meets the hard criteria required by pension companies. And in this respect, the Ministry of Finance needs to move now. During this parliamentary term, we have not made sufficient progress in the construction of new transport infrastructure instruments. I would say that the officials of the Ministry of Finance are a little morbid in this regard. Now we need to get moving, and occupational pension companies are one possibility here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u12	Mr President! According to this proposal, all employment pension schemes must have at least general principles of corporate governance, which describe inter alia the connection between the investment strategy and the principles of corporate governance. And it is a good thing to remember that the resources of our earnings-related pension system are actually well over 200 billion at the moment and, bearing in mind that the growth of the funds is no longer based on the fact that the earnings of the earnings-related pension scheme as such are higher than expenditure, but on the return on pension resources. Unfortunately, the expenditure of the earnings-related pension scheme has exceeded the amount of income for several years in a row. In other words, it is absolutely essential that we get the funds in the investments, well over 200 billion, to produce well, because they enable us to secure pensions on a large scale for all Finns and also for future pensioners. Sometimes you hear talk about why you should have such a large pension fund reserve. It is worth remembering that perhaps the most sustainable pension system in the world is the Dutch pension system and there these reserves are seven times higher than in Finland. So there is approximately EUR 1400 billion in stock and investments. Even in the Netherlands, however, the challenges and problems of the sustainability of the pension system are discussed. These over 200 billion will be the security of the future Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u13	Mr President, Happy New Year to the President and Minister! When we often assume that this is the way it is and this is how it will always be, and when the representative Kankaanniemi, like a few others, pointed out how this wealth of pension companies could be invested more in Finnish infrastructure and Finnish companies and Finnish investment instruments, I would have asked about such an idea as to whether any such means were being considered on the government's side. In fact, it often feels like we're just starting out like this and now we're on the international market, but we have a lot of smart people in Finland, and they could hit their heads together with what kinds of incentives we could get to raise capital here in Finland. Now that the election is coming, there is a lot of talk about who promises the most hundreds to whom, and it has been great that the guarantee pension has been increased, but we have just these people who are on a pension, who are in contact with us Finns, especially, and regret that they have made a long career and that pension has been very low. This index cutter has been in use for years and they feel really unfair that you can't get much more money in your hand than you can with a guarantee pension even though you have a long career. It is good to remember that at the time it was also the case that it took many years after the age of 18, until the pension started to increase, and I was still of the age class, born in 68, that I worked for years and paid these contributions, but it has not increased the amount of pension. Many of these people have started work at the age of 15 by working and studying along with them, and of course it is a big deal for them. The Finns of Peru have also suggested a few times that they might look at a certain category of income from occupational pensions, whose index freeze could be relaxed, so that it would not be directed at everyone, and that Mr Huhtasaari and Mr Huhtasaari met with people from the employment pension institution once, and they said that it has never been calculated. When Mrs Kiljunen's citizens' initiative was discussed, we hoped that the committee would have at that time considered and calculated this, but there was no response, and it came to the Chamber only by either-or-vote. We should really be able to answer these people at some point. There is only one hundred dollars auction here now, but this pension case must be resolved, and it does not go to people to understand that there are billions of dollars of money somewhere and that they are squirming year after year with the same money — given that housing, among other things, is becoming increasingly expensive. The latest news coverage has been the rise in property taxes. I would like to ask the Minister: is there anything considered about these matters?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u14	We now have five speeches and we are running out of time on that side. So these will be taken, and then the Minister will answer, and then later in the afternoon we will continue. Let's take these now, who's here now. Elomaa will be the last speaker and then the Minister, and then we will go to the next item on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u15	Madam President! Of course, pension funds, and in particular their size, are a source of much debate and passion about how they should be used, and I think that this debate is important from time to time. In particular, with regard to pension fund returns, even if it is partly invested, I think it is important that we consider whether they could be used more for example for growth companies, for the creative economy and for the internationalisation of companies, because investing that would produce work in the home country immediately would be useful and might even offer a higher return than in the funds where they are at present. In other words, I am not talking about the liquidation of capital, but, in particular, about this partial investment in profits. I therefore hope that a record will be made of this in the forthcoming government programme to look at the better use of pension funds to produce work in the country of origin.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u16	Mr President! This bill is mainly a fine-tuning exercise after the pension reform in 2015. But now that we are discussing the general aspects of pension insurance, I would like to say a few words about the hopes expressed here that pension companies' funds will be used more for domestic investment. Such a wish is often expressed, but two facts of good economic management must be borne in mind when assessing it: The first is that a small nation makes great sense not to put eggs in one basket. It is very reasonable that our earnings-related pension assets are in the world and are not dependent on the same economic shocks and shocks as Finland, where pensioners are. The second aspect is that a small, open, integrated euro country such as Finland is no longer a poor capital. We are part of the international capital market and the growth of our employment is not limited by the lack of capital and investment, but by how we can make our own resources available and, in particular, by reforming the labour market, more employed people. Employment growth is limited by the number of workers and structural problems in our labour market, not by the amount of investment, and we must not increase welfare by forcing pension companies to invest in domestic investment. On the other hand, we are putting future pensions at risk by doing so, because the return on pension funds will then fall. That is why we must be critical of the hopes which may arise in this Chamber even in the run-up to the elections that pension funds will begin to be distributed for a desirable purpose in this Chamber. The best way to secure future pensions is to continue to invest these funds in the world with the best possible return. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u17	Madam President! Just as Mr Vartiainen said, I am sure that this huge 200 or over 200 billion-euro pot will need to be invested abroad, but it is such a big shot that if even a little more money were invested in Finland, as has been said above, it would also increase our well-being and generate more money in the funds. It has been said that pension funds must be invested as productively as possible, but I do think that it is narrow-minded to think that only 100 % of euros are thought of. Yes, I would see it possible to think that a portion of such a large pot of money, at least a small slice, would be placed in places that would increase health and well-being and, in particular, the health and well-being of the elderly, and in that way we would think that it would produce the best possible target a little more than just the euro. Insurance experts working in the Ministry have also said many times in the past, and also earlier in committee, that it has been thought that pension funds would have been sufficient and would be sufficient to provide EUR 90 billion. Now there is more than EUR 200 billion. Of course, the pension issues of future generations, the retirement situation and the way it is formed and the kind of pension reserves that will become, will have a major impact on whether we are working for the younger generation. Everyone has to get a job, and that is where the tax resources come from, but I also think it is important to highlight what our labour market is already like and how rapidly our labour market is changing. At this point, I would like to highlight our platform economy. More and more work is being carried over to the platforms, and it has been assumed that at this stage around EUR 160 million of tax resources will not be collected specifically for the work that is being done on the platforms and that by 2025 the total base economy will amount to around 25-50%, and so there is a very high risk that there will be a tax deficit, i.e. tax revenue, without raising taxes as much as 1 to 2 billion a year. These results, these figures, which I am going to say now, are precisely estimates by the Tax Administration. The tax administration has estimated that — and also according to surveys — only about 44% of those who operate on those platforms faithfully handle their tax cases well, i.e. a deficit of between 1 and 2 billion tax revenues.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u18	Madam President! However, this debate on pensions is ahead of us, as in the south, so that it is not going to get anywhere. It will arise before the elections and also after the elections. I agree with Mr Vartiainen that these occupational pension funds must be invested in such a way that they produce in a maximum way, and they cannot be used solely on the basis that they are nice domestic money that can be invested somewhere, but they have clear returns requirements. And when you look at how these pension stocks have evolved, they are very well managed. Surely they can be treated better, but in 96 C.E. they were worth 36 billion, and today they are worth over 200 billion. When I look at how they have evolved, there is only one year of decline, when the employment pension funds did not rise. When Lehman Brothers went bankrupt and all these global financial problems, I think the value of the funds dropped by 20 billion and they have immediately started to rise. Even during the 12 years when Finland's current account fell by 17 billion, the employment pension funds grew and, of course, their investment palette was global. This is the way it should be, because these are to safeguard the well-being of pensioners and pay for future pensions. One interesting thing is that in the last four years, these occupational pension funds have been taken out — in addition to employers and workers who actually pay these pensions — money. Nevertheless, the funds have grown all the time. We know that the socio-economic status of pensioners differs from that of employees. Housing costs have risen a lot, as was said here, and health care costs. And when we look at Statistics Finland’s statistics, certain socio-economic groups may have an index of 124 in terms of housing to which they have to spend. For employees, it's 100. In healthcare costs it may be 190. We really need to look into what's happened to these pensioners. There is a trend in the number of pensions you can buy, and when housing and health care costs have risen, it has especially vaccinated pensioners. If these things go in the same direction, it leads to retirement poverty. In my opinion, it cannot be that the sleeve is drawn here, that this index is correct or whether the pensions are left behind or not, but that they should be examined. In my opinion, a working group should be set up for six months to see if this is really the case. It now appears that occupational pension funds are constantly growing but in a certain way
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u19	The representative at the sea has the answer, but then we'll go on the list again.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u20	Thank you, Mr President. However, in this previous speech, as Mr Vartiainen has said, I thought I heard the very idea I said at the beginning that when this has always happened, this is how it always goes. But a small promise was made by the last part of Mr Estilä's speech that there would be a working group to consider this issue. In my opinion, it should focus specifically on that level of pensions. You don't have to be a terrible powder inventor to understand that if you have the same pension year after year when your wages go up, then of course it always has less purchasing power, because the electricity bill, the gas bill, any bill, is not different for a pensioner on the counter. So, yes, we must understand this fact, we cannot always just move and move these things. We must now be able to talk about these things out loud. ‘Global ‘and’results’andother fine words,but people are interested in what they’re looking for,and we need to shake this system,and not always
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u23	Mr President! This presentation at hand is in itself justified. It improves transparency, transparency, timely reporting and certainly the reliability of the system. But for this broader debate, a few words: Even today, this fund-raising element is already being used to ensure that we are able to meet the obligations we are committed to in order to safeguard the interests of pensioners. It is good that this fund contribution is reasonably significant. It should then be borne in mind that all investment activities must be productive and secure, and then investments cannot be concentrated solely in the country of origin, but also international investment activities are needed in order to achieve this objective. The Finnish pension system is good in such a way that it does, however, have a partial funded system that buffers when it is needed to support the retirement of the baby age groups. Last week a study was published that the Finnish earnings-related pension scheme is the third best in the world for its credibility, functionality and financial structure. The challenge lies in the fact that the higher the employment rate, the more certain the financing of the earnings-related pension system can also be secured. The change in working life will lead to the fact that when employment relationships become fragmented or this polarisation may lead to a reduction in middle-class work, the financing base of the earnings-related pension system may also become more challenging. In this respect, this pension reform, which was referred to here in Mr Vartiainen's speech, was very important. After all, the average retirement age is now rising by three months per year, and this reform will have an important role to play in ensuring that in future there will also be some concern about this funding and that these dwindling young generations will not be subjected to too much burden of payment in the future. Pension funds can probably reasonably be invested in, for example, longer-term future investments, such as infra-investments involving society, occupational pension schemes and private capital. Such partnership and cooperation models are indeed needed, and the earnings-related pension scheme can play its part. Finally, I would like to say that the big challenge for us is still that the number of people going to disability pension is very large, and it is growing a little. If we can curb it and raise the average retirement age, it will have a very large impact on the financing of the occupational pension system in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u24	Then we take the two of these, Elomaa and Myllykoski, and then the Minister, and then we go to the next point.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u25	Mr President! The EUR 200 billion of occupational pension funds is a huge sum. We also have a lot of pensioners who worked for years before retirement even began to accumulate, not to mention long careers where 40 years have worked, 50 years. At the moment, they are not even covered by compulsory living costs. Young people and those in employment are concerned about their future pensions — are there still investments when their retirement age is current? That too is a cause for concern. Of course, the billions of pension funds must be well invested, but the reserves of the funds are growing all the time, and this folded index remains valid. Just as Mr Meri has said here, pensioners are constantly asking these questions: when should their turn be given more of their own well-being because they have made a long career? But the real question for the Minister would be: this government proposal is in principle good, but is there a risk that investments outside the EU will also increase a lot and thus also increase the risks?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u26	Madam President! Various contributions have been made, on behalf and side. However, I personally would like to point out that in our pension system, where employers and employees invest and pay or enable investment in their own incomes, one basic thing must be remembered. I would like to direct this message to Mr Eestilä. It is certainly a very good thing for us to secure — and I agree — international companies in such a way that our increased pension, which will secure the pensions of our future generations, is secure. But I think that we Finnish growth companies, the SME sector, should have the courage to take a bolder look at the potential for growth. If this is not the way to do what has been the primary purpose of the system — that is to say to have had the opportunity to borrow money here so that business can develop and grow — and if we have forgotten it now in this moment, then we must restore it. We may take a small risk, but we also take a risk when we invest pension funds in an international listed company. We must also dare to make some of this common fund a contribution to the development of Finnish entrepreneurship in this country, which means that when a company develops, it can make it possible for more employees to find employment. These things should not be confused in such a way that they are contradictory. We need each other, and that is why the pension system is good. I very much hope that at some point we will be able to draw up a legislative model so that Parliament will not be able to intervene in the pension system, but will be managed by the social partners, because they bear responsibility for it and for its financing. This would be important so that we do not allow Finland in relation to EU debts to provide guarantees for the pension system, but we must keep the EU financial framework and the pension system completely separate, so that we enable Finnish employers, labour market organisations to guarantee employees and entrepreneurs the pension security that is currently in place.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u27	Mr President! Thank you for the debate on very wide-ranging issues. I think we all agree in this Chamber that the principles of pension insurance should be respected. This government proposal is not intended to change these big questions of principle. In section 3.4, the social impact is read that it is not estimated that there are these major impacts of principle, but that it is more transparency, more information. Mr Juvonen, you asked what the evaluation council has answered here. On page 18, it has been stated that the proposal has been checked in the law-making department of the Ministry of Justice and that the comments have been taken into account in this regard. According to my information, the evaluation council has considered this bill and its amendments to be minor. Let me repeat: This is related to the Government's proposal 305/2018 vp, which has been prepared by the Ministry of Finance, and this is therefore specifically related to the national implementation of the amending directive. In summer 2017, the Ministry of Finance has set up a working group that has prepared these proposals. The working group has assessed exactly what the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health provides for in the Act on Insurance Companies, the Pension Fund Act and the Insurance Fund Act, and then has been agreed in the working group at the Ministry of Finance to be evaluated by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Then, Mr. Elomaa, you asked about the use of funds and investments. Pension funds are supervised by the Financial Supervisory Authority, and we have a law on financial supervision under which supervision is carried out. But the sum summarum, this is related to a larger entity, the government proposal 305, which has also been given to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u28	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u29	We will now resume the debate on item 2 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u30	Mr President! I have already spoken on this subject, but I also wanted to underline my view of what has already been said in previous speeches by other Members of Parliament that this occupational pension scheme must be re-evaluated and, if necessary, re-built. If we think that society is changing rapidly, it is obvious in this change that there is not only a need for this, but it may well be necessary to do so. I said earlier in this Chamber, in a statement, that I believe that it should be possible to negotiate with occupational pension organisations, for example, about raising lower occupational pensions. After all, it is always said that occupational pension is why it has accumulated over the years, but we have, for example, many elderly women who have done important and valuable work in caring for the family, working at home and raising children, our current taxpayers, and on the other hand many have done temporary work and a small wage, that is, no pension. Of course we have a guarantee pension and a national pension, but in addition to this, it should be possible, for example, to consider and evaluate the level increase of the smallest occupational pensions and to consider ways to implement it. In addition to that, I once made a proposal in this Chamber about the mid-term index. When the citizens' initiative was discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, then there were insurance experts in the Ministry who had previously been consulted, and they did emphasise that the index folded at the time was intended to be temporary and that the mid-term index previously used would also be fully sustainable for the future and future generations. After all, a citizens' initiative has now been taken by the Senior Movement, which is under way and which proposes that this mid-term index should be imported as a 10-year experiment and then evaluated and accurately calculated. Then there is the point I also wanted to raise regarding these occupational pension companies: I have found it quite remarkable that the decision-making bodies of employment pension companies do not, I believe, currently include any representative of current pensioners. I would see that this is a shortcoming, and I would like to see that, when these issues are assessed — in cooperation and in consultation with employment pension companies and these organisations, of course — this gap can be overcome. I believe that there should also be a representative of current pensioners when deciding on these matters. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u31	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u32	Madam President! There is now a government proposal for two important amendments to the fisheries law. It is a question of tackling fish stocks and improving the local fishing opportunities of Upper Lapland. The aim of the confiscation penalties is to strengthen the protection and recovery of endangered and declining fish species. A penalty for non-compliance with the fishing law will be added to the penalty for these species. In such a case, the State may be condemned not only for the loss of the fish itself but also for the value set out in its regulation. So, for example, the poaching of lake salmon may be subject to a substantial fine. One of the gems of the government’s key projects is improving living conditions for migratory fish. In some waters, costly measures have been wasted because of insolent and repeated poaching. I hope that Parliament will send out this amendment of the law by accepting a clear message: this kind of action must stop, and that is why we will change the law. The penalty would apply to endangered fish species. These include salmon, lake salmon, eels, skunks, trout, ridges, chars, river crab and hiking pigs. In other words, the value of fish species is currently determined by the Natural Resources Centre and would be confirmed by a regulation. I would like to point out that the penalty does not affect the property of the owner of the water area. In the case of a protected area, such as undersized fish, which cannot be exploited by the owner, the compensation is imputable to the State. That is the case with the penalty. In the case of other damage suffered by the owner of the water area, the compensation is, of course, the responsibility of the owner. I also consider it important that the penalty payment does not give rise to excessive situations. It is always a question of deliberate illegal fishing. President! The second paragraph to be changed is important to the people of the north and to the way of life. The amendment of Section 10 on Upper Lapland allows the residents of Enontekio, Inari and Utsjoki to receive a seasonal permit for the state currents of the municipality of residence. The authorisation to fish for lure fishing would be cost-effective and free of charge for persons under 18 years of age. Fishing sustainability is ensured by permit conditions such as catch quotas. Some of the permits should continue to be reserved for those living elsewhere. Fishing tourism is also an important industry, of course, in northern municipalities. This change will improve the opportunities for Sámi and other local populations to engage in the traditional fishing culture of the region. For the past two years, the situation has been disproportionate when familiar waters should have been able to obtain a competitive daily permit in good time in the spring. New Article 10 take into account the sustainability highlighted by the new Fisheries Act, while local fishing opportunities come closer to the previous state.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u33	First of all, let's go on the list of speakers for a while. — Mr Kulmala, please. — Let's have a little debut then.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u34	Madam President! The proposal proposes to amend the Fisheries Act. The courage to change all the points in the law that would have required change was not now there. Maybe it would have required more cow trades between parties. So much remains to be done for the next parliamentary term and certainly for the next. The system of penalties for infringements of the rules on fisheries will be developed by introducing a new kind of loss penalty in the Fisheries Act. In the case of certain endangered and declining fish species, certain fishing offences and infringements should be condemned to the State for losing the value of the fish that is the subject of the crime as a representative of its species. I think this reform is good because it will enhance the protection and recovery of endangered and declining fish species. At this stage, I would like to thank Minister Leppää for the fact that this law has come here for a referral debate. A similar system has been in place for a long time, for example in the case of large predators and Saimaan seal. Why, then, would endangered fish be in an unequal position? Well, under previous governments this has been accepted and considered a normal state of affairs. The present government wants a change, and that is a very welcome change. The desire to protect endangered and regressive valuable migratory fish has been strengthened over the last few years, while awareness of the poor condition of our migratory fish has increased. However, the penalties for illegal fishing of endangered fish have been limited. Unauthorised fishing is normally punishable by a few daily fines and it is possible to confiscate fishing gear, but these measures alone do not seem to reduce the amount of illegal fishing. It must also be obvious that unauthorized fishing for perch and for pike or char and for saimaa salmon must be punished in different ways. The improvement of the status of migratory fish has also been reflected at the level of the current Government Programme. During the 2016-2018 Kärki project period, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry allocated a total of approximately EUR 7.8 million of state aid to projects for the recovery of migratory fish stocks carried out in cooperation with various regional actors. In addition, the State has mainly allocated less than EUR 800000 per year to rehabilitation projects to improve the natural growth of migratory fish stocks, including the river Pielisjoki in the Kuurna Canal. In the whole country, the project has mobilised investments worth more than EUR 20 million for migratory fish. They are, among other things, fish roads, over-transplants of mother fish into spawning areas, eggs and pups and spawning areas. I therefore attach great importance to these funds if we want to guarantee future generations that they too will still be able to enjoy, for example, saimaa salmon and lake trout other than in photographs. The media has noted, among other things, the high level of poaching observed on the Pielisjoki river, where people have been found illegally fishing Lake Salmon in Saimaa below the Kuurna power plant. I myself have often run after these braves in the sea, and I can say that year after year they are the same people. They are not affected by minor punishments. On the one hand, the culture of poaching has been generally accepted in the region and, on the other hand, it is due to the low risk of capture due to limited fisheries control resources. Since last year there has been an increase in fisheries control resources, and I believe and hope that this will be all right. However, we need the value of the proposal for endangered fish, which will contribute to preventing illegal fishing. The effectiveness of the current sanctioning system is also undermined by the fact that too many suspicions of fishing offences and offences are not sufficiently understood in the pre-trial investigation and that they do not proceed to the courts for the most part due to closure decisions and decisions not to prosecute on grounds of minority. Perhaps it would be different if the target were a Saima elephant and not just an endangered fish. In any event, the current system of penalties has been perceived as toothless in terms of protecting endangered migratory fish from poaching. This is now added to the definition of the value of fish, and I consider the government's proposal to be very important in this regard. Of course, it is also in line with my action initiative 20/2017.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u35	Let us now take the debate, so many people will be able to take the floor during the minister's time. Congressman Tolppanen will begin, and then we'll start. I would ask you to make comments at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u36	Mr President! Now I would like to ask the Minister: do you really think that when we tackle this poaching, then the endangered migratory fish have been taken care of? Why do you not want to interfere in Poland's poaching? Why do you not want to interfere, for example, with the plundering of the Kvarken seals and the killing of an entire fishing industry? Why not do anything about what really causes the greatest problems for our endangered fish stocks? Rule-Suomi regulates different regulations for people if they fish for themselves when they can't take it away from the industry. But why is it that these things, which really, really affect, are not being addressed? Why aren't seals being shot properly? Well, of course I know that if the natural conditions are wrong, then they are wrong, but shouldn't there be an opportunity for catching every time there is ice? In addition to that, Finland should also be given the opportunity to use the seal for its benefit — both meat and hair and leather, everything — because it is quite fair goods.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u37	Madam President! It is wonderful to see tougher penalties for poaching. It is the only way, and it is also the world’s best. The second thing that is a little problematic, Minister, is this right to fish in Upper Lapland. This is how we are going to enter into the State Treaty, and if my interpretation is correct, the State Agreement between Finland and Norway is a priority and the Fisheries Act is subordinate to it. We are under heavy environmental responsibility through the treaty as regards the fishing of Teno and its by-catches. If we open up now, as if we are suddenly expanding fishing rights, then I understand what it is seeking, and that is a good thing, but that will lead us to look now at this state agreement whether it will give in. The second thing that this is going to lead to is a little more serious: Let us go to the heart of our property. This situation leads to local people being allowed to fish and the owner watching next door, i.e. the owner who owns the right to fish. It is quite extraordinary, and it is very good that this is being sent to the Constitutional Committee, because this is not as simple as it looks all of a sudden.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u38	Mr President! I must say that I very much welcome this government proposal here in Parliament. Both the proposals presented here in the Fisheries Act are excellent. When I listened to Mr Tolppanen's speech, in which he asked some rather tough questions to the Minister, it occurred to me that perhaps those questions do not do justice to the Minister now that we know what line he has taken in fisheries policy within the European Union, which has specifically sought to intervene in the clandestine fishing of the Poles and also to ensure that the Baltic salmon stock remains alive, so that the salmon can also rise to our salmon rivers, the Simo River and the Tornio River and so on. Unlike Mr Eestilä, I personally do not see a problem with the Teno River Fisheries Agreement between Finland and Norway in this local law. This isn't directly about the Teno River. In my view, from a constitutional point of view, this is a proposal relating to the rights of indigenous people and clearly improves, or could be said to restore, those rights which were weakened by the amendment of the Fisheries Act.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u39	Madam President! Cultivated and preserved in ancient times have been a good guide for us. In other words, live and work in harmony with the environment and nature. And this is also the case in Finland, when we have a unique nature, both air, forests and waters, we must take care of biodiversity and also the cleanness of water bodies, the environment of fish. We really must take better care of fish stocks, the protection of endangered fish, as has already been mentioned in many speeches. And interference with such massive poaching is certainly a measure that has been expected. I personally think that the proposals and changes that are now being made to the fisheries law are good, but I also call for the committee to look at these details further and look at them more closely from the point of view of the various players and, if necessary, to highlight the shortcomings.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u40	Mr President! Fishing, if anything, is an emotional thing, and in that sense it is, of course, a good thing that every time something is done, it is done with care. And, of course, I may have been surprised by the opening of this whole law even in the run-up to the elections, because it took one seven years for these matters to be carefully considered at the time. In that sense, I would have said to the Minister that you are well aware that at least Article 10 of the Fisheries Act and then Article 119 have given rise to much debate, and Article 10 in the sense that the introduction of seasonal authorisations must not lead to a situation where fishing sites are reserved solely for the use of the locals of Upper Lapland. And as far as section 119 is concerned, even though Mr Salmon is always speaking well here, I would like to raise the question, that is, where the status is, because if anything, it is a valuable fish and it is often misfished. That is Article 119. We should be able to get a bump in it as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u42	Mr President! Thank you very much to the Minister for bringing forward this matter of fisheries law. After all, there was a motion in the consultation that contained section 27, where the law should be developed, because it was such a big package of laws. The good thing about this was that the two most important things were now brought forward, i.e. Article 10 of the Fisheries Act. And then the death penalty. On the 10th of this, then. This is a very important and important issue in the Sámi region of Finland. So it is the only indigenous people in Europe. For a long time now, we have been accused in Parliament of failing to take the Saami issues into account in the right way. Fortunately, it has now been brought forward that the rights of the Sámi will be taken into account in it. So it is not just any thing that we have an important indigenous people and that they have some cultural issues and quite constitutional rights, and here we are able to secure a little bit of this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u43	Madam President! Like Mr Skinner, I was a little surprised that it was decided to open the fisheries law. But I think that the message that this proposal wants to give is a good one. We do not accept poaching and we want our fish stocks to be sustainable. That is a very good and important message. And the committee will certainly look into these details carefully then in the follow-up work. If we want our fish stocks to be at a sustainable level, it will require a variety of measures from us. It calls for us, when deciding on EU fish quotas, to place a strong emphasis on the identified poaching which takes place in the EU's common waters and which makes them a slightly inactive means of monitoring the sustainability of fish stocks when it is not clear exactly what quantities of fish are being fished. In addition, we must continue to work towards removing barriers to migration from rivers and streams. Its work should be more determined than it has been so far. There are ways that are quite easy: bridge drums need to be properly installed, incorrectly installed can be repaired. But then there are more difficult decisions. I personally see that, for example, small returns on hydroelectric power stations must be able to intervene and be dismantled. Dams and hydroelectric power stations are a big question for hiking fish anyway. But if we want them to be on a sustainable level, these measures must be taken. I would have asked the Minister: what is your view: what do you think would be the next step and what more could we do to remove the obstacles to migration at the moment? And second of all,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u44	Madam President! In this respect, the government has taken a quite correct line and is proposing changes in the Fisheries Act to the two articles where the need for change has certainly been identified. The regulation of fishing law in Upper Lapland and its history have a long track record, starting with the fishing rights of Lappinkylä, and I believe that this bill is now taking the court in a better and the right direction. It is also a good thing that no fee is to be charged for a fishing permit for local residents under 18 years of age. It promotes fishing activity among children and young people, and I cannot see it as a threat to fish stocks. However, I would like to ask about the consequence of the loss of Article 119 as far as the matter has already been raised here,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u45	Madam President! It is absolutely excellent that this amendment of the law was brought about, and I believe that there has been a lot of debate on this issue both inside this house and in the public domain about what would be the right form. What is important, however, is that the rights of local people are safeguarded in Upper Lapland. That is a great thing, and it is precisely so that, as local people, I think they have the right to control the natural resources of the region. It is now very secure in my opinion in this law. And I have heard that representatives from Lapland have also been very unanimous on this issue, which in itself is a very good thing. The second point is the result of this loss. Unfortunately, there has been an amazing amount of poaching of migratory fish, and now that this legislative amendment comes into force, a little tougher instruments will be available to intervene in this activity. Restoring migratory fish stocks in the coming years is one of Finland's biggest responsibilities. I know, among other things, that in my country, near the Kuurna power plant, a great deal of work is being done to restore migratory fish stocks, and now, if this good endeavour is rejected by poaching, then the Minister is absolutely right about this. Now we need to intervene with a strong hand.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u46	Madam President! I would also like to thank the Minister for this proposal that it is here, as such a Lappish Member of Parliament. Through this performance, the residents of Upper Lapland will be able to get their seasonal permission back into the currents. In the reform of the Fisheries Act 2016, the main objective was to protect endangered fish stocks and organise sustainable fishing. Among other things, there was a ban on rocking, restrictions on the number of nets and restrictions on the right to sell catches for professional fishermen. It seems that a little childhood was there for the rights of Upper Lapland, and this decision came as a bit of a surprise to Metsähallitus. In spring 2016, the permit vendor did not know whether the locals were allowed to fish in current waters as before or whether they had to obtain permits in the same way as tourists. In Upper Lapland, the change of law caused natural, justified dismay when the locals were put to the same permit shopping window as tourists to test their luck. I can see in this respect that this injustice is being corrected, and for that I would like to thank the Minister very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u47	Mr President! I do not so much dare to take a stand on justice in the dispute over the right to fish in Upper Lapland — it is a long story, it has had many stages — but I may believe that the Minister's sincere desire to seek the legitimate views he has expressed in his speech in order to achieve this objective. That's good. But I am now making a class alliance with Mr Tolppanen and I ask whether it is possible for the Minister to comment on these disadvantages, which he has brought in his own speech, even serious disadvantages in the economic pursuit of fishing, because both cormorants and seals are a serious problem, and it has certainly been a little more than a water-shrinking issue for the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u48	Let us take two replies, then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u49	Mr President! Of course I also think it's a good thing for Upper Lapland. Of course, I wonder why the same could not apply to the waters of the Teno River and Näätämö River, or to the salmon and trout of the rivers Tuulolojoki and Paatsjoki, but that is hardly the place to go. Indeed, seals are a source of trouble. As the Minister certainly knows, fishing in Kvarken, for example, is almost dead because half the salmon cannot be exploited. There's a bunch of white fish coming up this size.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u50	Mr President! I will continue with the legislative proposal myself, but first I would like to come back to this whole, Minister, in the sense that I myself would have liked to have had those national strategies properly dealt with, prepared in peace, seen the management plans for fisheries resources and consulted all the experts. This situation is now, excuse me, a little bit of haste when this is being done in such a hurry. Then I come back to paragraph 10. In the sense that I do at least want to defend fishing tourism entrepreneurs, their livelihoods, and also the fact that people other than the locals have the opportunity to visit and fish. Yes, in that sense it is something we must dare defend. We all remember what happened two summers ago in Teno, for example, when many entrepreneurs called and said that they are running out of business and bankruptcy is imminent. That is what this is all about, Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u51	There seems to be a need for debatability here, and while the Minister is still here, we will take these debatable remarks and then the Minister's replies, and then we will go to the next point. So the list of speakers stays until tonight. — Representatives Maijala, Kalmari, Salmon, Myllykoski. — These are the last debates at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u52	Mr President! I wonder what Mr Skinner has to say. He is the chairman of the Finnish Free Time Fishermen and he said that the preparation and presentation of this law is a surprise. How can that be a surprise, because this has been discussed throughout this parliamentary term throughout the debate on fish issues and highlighted what things should be done to develop this law further? Now, one of the essential things that was left out of this law at this stage are these matters of fisheries management and the money that is used to run this whole thing. In other words, we need the funds to get advice, regional management and control, and all these financial issues have now been left undone. Now the situation is that from the beginning of this year we have had to start working on the construction of fishing areas, and at least that is why this matter of law change should have been done before, that we can finance in some way and that we can manage these creations of fishing areas in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u53	Madam President! The determination of the loss penalty and the value of fish is very important for endangered and declining fish species, and it is great that the entry in the Government Programme, which called for the possibility of hunting and fishing related to the Finnish life form, is now also being realised in the case of Upper Lapland. These are issues in which ownership must be taken into account and tourism issues must be taken into account, and I think that this whole is now very balanced, and we will then go through it peacefully in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u54	Mr President! I think it is right to raise concerns about the fishing industry and its development. It has nothing to do with this government proposal as such, but if you say anything about it, I think that the most important thing is two factors: One is that we are forced to recognise that this agreement between Finland and Norway on fishing in the Teno River is not the best possible agreement for us and that efforts should be made to implement it so that we can better ensure that tourism companies are able to sell permits and ensure that there are then, for example, access to fishing by business groups so that they can ensure that everyone can go to the river. The second is, then, a much broader issue, our fisheries policy being wider. We must ensure that salmon and other migratory fish are allowed into the rivers so that we can secure the production of salmon in all circumstances. In the long term, this will also safeguard marine fishing and the protection of fish stocks.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u55	Madam President! It is good that things are being discussed, and two different things must be distinguished in relation to migratory fish: we are talking about the Teno agreement, which is a state treaty, and then we are talking about the fish stocks that otherwise exist in migratory fish. Mr Salmon already knows these things very well by his name. It is precisely the difference between what is the decision-making according to the Treaties and how we ourselves can do in national law that, in the Bothnian Sea and in the Satakunta, we can also ask for salmon for a commercial purpose. What is important is that we can see that there are different views in this Chamber that need to be coordinated. We have strong speeches here on recreational fishermen and then on the commercial side. Our main objective is to be able to secure the vitality of migratory fish and to combine these two different points of view in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u56	Mr President! Thank you for your good comments and questions. Let's start with the sanctioning system and the poaching. This law, when it came to it, became a wealth of statements. Everyone was in favour of eliminating poaching. It is unambiguously clear and there were no two words about it. I will no longer open it up any more, it has well come to the point, other than to the extent that the mire, which was raised here at least in Mr Skinner's speech, is not an endangered fish, but its fishing pressure should be monitored, as it is being done. In the Archipelago Sea, for example, its undersized size has been increased precisely because the stock could recover more quickly, so that in the future there would be what to fish.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u59	The debate and proceedings are suspended at this stage. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u60	We will now resume the debate on item 3 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u61	Mr President! A major change in fishing legislation took place on 1 January 2016 and the world has never been completed before. Since this law came into force, a number of things have been noticed, how this law should then be developed further, that it better responds to the need for the present. Last summer there was a draft opinion on the subject and there were 27 sections. But time's up. During this term of government, we have achieved a great deal in this Parliament as a whole. We've been working really hard. The officials of the Ministry have also had to work much more than they did in a long time. Now, as far as this fisheries law is concerned, it simply ran out of time and resources to deal with this issue very well. That is why only two most important sections of the law have now been made and dealt with. Thank you very much for bringing these two most important things forward. Indeed, the two most important are, firstly, this loss penalty case and, secondly, this matter of fishing in the rivers of the three northernmost municipalities, i.e. Article 10. We in Lapland have really had a lot of this issue on the table, and now it is good that it was brought forward. This is particularly important because it is the Sámi region. In the Sámi region, it is important for locals to be able to practice the culture that is important for that region. Now, however, there is a point in this law that it should be possible for Metsähallitus to establish the fishing restrictions that it considers necessary. However, this bureaucracy must not bring down this good proposal, which is what this is. In other words, people should be given such a common sense as possible to fish there in their own waters, in rivers, in trout and salmon, just as it has been in the past. The problem, however, is that the previous opportunity to fish, which was indeed before the entry into force of this new law, was also in the north of the municipalities of Savukoski and Sodankylä on the top waters of the Lutto and Suomu River. Now the side of Sodankylä is completely out of it. It should have been on its way, but perhaps this matter will be taken forward in the future, and it will also be possible to take into account the issues of the northern parts of Sodankylä and Savukoski. For the Sámi culture, this is important anyway. Teno's agreement was tragic for tourism, but now this Article 10 of the Fisheries Act. was another mental blow to the locals very badly. This Article 10 The Sámi people, who come from that region, are not allowed to fish there under this new bill because they are not registered in that area. Then this fishing law. As I said earlier, many other things should have been on the agenda, but when the time ran out, they could not be dealt with. One of the biggest issues is the issue raised in particular by the Federation of Fisheries, the collection of fees for fisheries management. When a new law was made, it was calculated in such a way that all over 18-year-olds will collect the management fee and thus obtain an adequate accrual. The situation was, however, that at the end it was decided that it would only affect 18-65-year-olds, and that is why the money could not be raised at all as much as is necessary. However, since the beginning of this year, we have started working with the fishing area and so on, so there are a lot of things we should do. There are two major fisheries organisations in Finland: there is the Federation of Fisheries, which I chair. In addition, there is the Finnish Federation of Leisure Fishermen. These two major alliances are the main and most important donors in these administrative matters. So now let me briefly explain the role of the Confederation of Fisheries. Above all, it represents the owners of water law, that is to say, it deals with the most essential point of advice, water management and control. Ownership compensation also comes through this organisational issue. — Mr President, just one more moment. — — — — In other words, this largest organization, the Federation of Fisheries, is responsible for counseling, water management and control. Ownership compensations go through this to water law owners, but even these owner compensations go to water areas, so that we can organize the entire Finnish waters on the model so that all leisure fishermen, among other things, can then fish there. The most important thing would be that these big fisheries confederations will be able to cooperate even more in the future. After all, it is a matter of common concern that we should be able to develop the Finnish fisheries with a group of people. But hopefully this fishing law will be further developed so that we can get the operations going. There's still a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u62	Mr President! This bill contains two parts: The first draft law focuses on unauthorized fishing and the tightening up of the system of penalties for illegal fishing of endangered fish species. The second part concerns the re-establishment of the right of the residents of Upper Lapland to fish in public waters within the limits allowed by fish stocks. On the one hand, I am in favour of tightening up the system of penalties, because imposing the penalty for the loss, along with the actual penalty, will increase the effectiveness of the penalty and thus prevent possible crimes. This affects in particular persons and groups of persons knowingly engaged in poaching. In my opinion, mere punishment and its threat do not alone eliminate the illegal activity. There must also be an increased risk of getting caught. I therefore call on the committee to consider ways in which we can increase the control of fishing and thereby increase the risk of being caught. On the other hand, I am also in favour of extending the fishing rights of the local inhabitants of Upper Lapland. This is also necessary in response to the public feedback received. But at the same time, the right of those who have acquired a northern leisure property in the southern part of Finland to fish in the waters on which their property is located must also be ensured. It cannot be that the people of the south are sold properties on the river shores but are not given the right to fish for the property. Mr President! In the debate on the referral of this bill, I now wish for two things. First, that the amendment restores the peace of fishing to the shores of the watercourses of Lapland, and secondly, I wish all freefishers firm lines. And I will return to the fisheries management fee, which Mrs Maijala also spoke about. In my opinion, if we increase controls, increase the risk of being caught, then we will also reduce this so-called free travel. In other words, if people who are obliged to pay the fish management fee have an increased risk of being caught means that they will no longer dare to fish without the fish management fee, this will increase the amount of the fish management fee, and I think that this increased amount of money could be very well allocated to the management of fish stocks. But more control and more control, the money accumulated in the management of fish stocks, so the fish stocks are doing well. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u63	Mr President! North Karelia Lieksanjoki is one of the top priorities of the current government's nature policy, and important measures have already been taken in cooperation with various actors to save lake salmon and trout from extinction. The poaching of Pielisjoki and Pieline has been extremely damaging not only to endangered species but also to the effectiveness of the main project and the excellent cooperation already being carried out in the region. Secret fishing destroys all efforts and financial efforts, as well as the results of control or legal reform, and it is in no way defensible in modern times. Every fish entering the kudu has a very important role to play in the conservation of the stock as a whole. Last autumn we received a record number of approximately 250 endangered lake salmon or trout from the Pielisjoki channel Kuurna. After milking, a significant proportion of these were transferred to various waters of North Karelia. If poaching is allowed to continue as it was, you may well ask whether the transfer of mother fish to these waters is even a sensible activity. As in the previous year, the North Karelia Fisheries Centre was granted EUR 100000 for fisheries control. Investing in fisheries control will support the conservation of endangered fish species in watercourses. It is also supported by the current demonstration of the value of endangered fish. This proposal is very timely and also necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u64	Mr President! This amendment to the fishing law is very important, especially from the point of view of Upper Lapland. During the last parliamentary term, when a change was made to the fishing law — and the fish, if anything, always evoking great passions and feelings — remained in the law, however, from the point of view of the local people, from the point of view of the Sami people, a very problematic change, which apparently came as a surprise to Parliament, but at least it came as a surprise to many locals that they were suddenly likened to the same line with the out-of-towners in the waters of the state where they were able to fish for all age, for decades, from generation to generation. When I looked at the Minutes of that dinner in the debat, I was a little surprised at how the Tenojoki Agreement, which is a state treaty and a matter separately, was included in this same debate, and there was no reason to put the tourism companies and tourism entrepreneurs and local fishermen, for example, who voluntarily do so and who have practiced this cultural tradition for centuries in these regions. It is very important that this change was now achieved, even though it involved a variety of flexors. It is, of course, a pity that it has gone this far, until the end of the parliamentary term, but I think that the activities of the Centre Minister are very straightforward and robust, that this matter can now be dealt with by the municipalities of Utsjoki, Inari and Enontekio. In addition, it is important that young people should also be encouraged to fish insofar as this authorisation is free of charge for under 18-year-olds in the proposal. Not only does this improve the rights of the local people, the rights of the Sami people, in their own region of origin, but it is also important that this result be lost in order to eradicate poaching. In the previous debat, there was a broader talk of poaching, and yes, it must also give praise to the Minister of the Centre: Jari Leppä has handled it very well and has got Parliament behind it on a broad front, but has also been very successful in the negotiations in Brussels. Of course, there is still a great deal to be done about our migratory fish stocks, and in this respect, poaching, especially in the Polish region, is a very big issue, but this slightest change, which has now been brought about by Article 10 of the Fisheries Act and the result of this loss, is absolutely essential. I would see that this change, particularly in the three northern municipalities, is an important issue of equality of principle. For many people, it may seem trivial, but for us. For the people of Lapland it is very important and has been supported by the representatives of Lapland across the government-opposition boundaries.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u65	Mr President! There are many multi-taskings of fish issues. One point remained in this law, which is why there will be a great deal of compromise in the future. The text in the draft opinion last summer included the definition of flow water. There was a very good point in that proposal to define more precisely what a power station is. It was proposed that the rapids and currents of the migratory fishery should refer to the contact or strong current area of the water system and to the neck or final slide of the associated rapids or strong streams. I think this would have been a very good text to put on this journey, many blanks would have been missed, whether it was a power station or not. At the moment, Article 4 of the Act reads as follows: ‘the water and water catchment area of the migratory fish basin refers to areas where ‘(a) water flows are observed downstream; and(b) river basins are below water level’. Is this a Finnish legislative text? Hello! Now that point was to be corrected. Hopefully, during the next parliamentary term, whoever is deciding here, this point will at least be rationalised. Indeed, when I, as Chairman of the Confederation of Fisheries, have had to think about how to do this, one of the leading fish officials in our region has advised me that the current is where the ice cannot stand to go on ice. So you can't go to a place where the ice can't stand to be there. Then it's the power station. Well, that's where we left it. The second thing that should have been corrected in this law is this network issue. Because Finland is a large country, a large country, our circumstances in different parts of Finland are very different. I'm glad it's 67. to the north of the latitude there was no network restriction, but in the rest of Finland it is now 240 metres per boat. In other words, in the waters, it should be decided, according to the management plan, how many nets are used there, how much is fished there and what is fished there. The majority of Finnish waters are definitely underfished, but there are also areas where no nets can be placed, at least not two more. But now that the law is the same everywhere in Finland, this really does not make sense. This should be rationalised. In the draft presented last summer, the term ‘vessel’ was changed to ‘name’, which would have been a brief explanation of what this means,there is no such case-law settlement as regards the concept of a boat. So there will be a great deal of haggling and fighting over this too. No cases have yet been brought before the courts, but on the other hand, the use of networks in Finland has completely collapsed, because the current generation is no longer going to the networks. Last week I went to get some cheese from under the ice, but there were not many people there on Orajärvi in Sodankylä, even though it is a traditional fishing area. Protection organisations: there are not many fishers anymore, so don't be afraid of them anymore. Those who run the water, let them run the water. Mr President! On the whole, we are indeed concerned that the use of domestic fish is very limited. Only one fifth of fish eaten in Finland are only domestic fish, and this is where the need for domestic fishing has been calculated. We really should work hard to increase the use of domestic fish, to get people to fish. But now these payments. Fisheries management fees are perhaps too bureaucratic at the moment, perhaps too difficult to handle. We should work to make it easier to buy the licenses of the day, especially for us all. And as has been said before, there should be more control. Fisheries management fees are used to maintain control, but if we cannot afford to have fisheries management control, which is first, the egg or the chicken? On the whole, there may be a need for additional funding from somewhere else in order to manage these waters, to advise them, and then to monitor them. But when we work together for these, we will be able to eat even more domestic fish in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u66	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u67	Mr President! The democratic rule of law includes the right of every citizen to express himself and, at the same time, the task of the government is also to ensure that every person is able to exercise this constitutional right without interference from outsiders and, for example, to threaten violence. This proposal now proposes extending the period for prior notification to the police so that the police can secure every right to express themselves in peace. This proposal proposes to amend Article 7 of the Assembly Act. The motion proposes that a public meeting, such as a demonstration, should be notified to the police at the meeting place at least 24 hours before the meeting begins. At present, the notification must be made at least 6 hours before the meeting. Notifications made after the deadline would still be valid if the organisation of the meeting did not cause undue harm to public order. This will therefore continue to make it possible to organise so-called spontaneous demonstrations. The statutory task of the police is to ensure that freedom of assembly is exercised. This may require prior planning, risk assessment, even consultation with demonstrators, special transport arrangements and other preliminary measures for the exercise of freedom of expression. The need for preliminary measures is emphasised in the context of larger demonstrations. Even in the present era of social media, it is possible to organise large-scale demonstrations and counter-monitoring demonstrations in a very fast time. In particular, in view of the large-scale and potentially confrontational demonstrations, it is essential that the notification period is long enough, because it is the only way to enable the necessary prior measures to be taken for the police. Hundreds of demonstrations and other public gatherings are held annually in Finland. In Helsinki alone, about four hundred were held last year. The current 6-hour reporting period has proved problematic in real-life situations where large-scale or otherwise police demonstrations requiring special preparation have been reported with the shortest 6-hour nauki deadline. The current law makes it possible, for example, to organise a large demonstration procession in the centre of Helsinki with a six-hour withdrawal period. The six-hour period is therefore too short in such a situation to ensure that everyone's safety is demonstrated. The purpose of the proposal is to ensure the smooth running of demonstrations and other public-spatial meetings. The proposed extension of the notification period is therefore aimed at safeguarding the freedom of assembly, as already required by international human rights treaties from the state.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u68	Now to the list of speakers, Mr Sarkkinen. — Let us then take the debate when one speech has been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u69	Mr President! Article 3 of the Act on General Meetings of 1907 reads as follows: ‘Where a general meeting is intended to be held in a public place in the sky, a written adjournment shall be made at least six hours before the date of the meeting,in the city police chamber,where no mayor shall be appointed to the public officer and to the President of the Court of Justice. However, a later declaration may be considered valid if the authority does not consider it to be harmful.’;
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u74	All right, then let's go to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u75	President! This bill follows the time in which social media is now in the context: the laws adopted over a century ago are no longer the present day. I see it as an ideal opportunity for the police and the organiser of the demonstration to cooperate more in order to maintain order and peace at the demonstration site, so that the message of the demonstration will also be better received in this way. For example, the French yellow vest demonstration began with an increase in fuel prices, but was escalated into an entirely different form of internal political expression. It is important that the demonstrations remain within the limits of what has been announced.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u76	Mr President! That is where Mr Sarkkinen spoke critically, and I believe that Mr Kivelä also made a proper speech. This is a big question of principle. In my view, the extension of the advance notice period is justified, in part, for the reasons stated in the explanatory memorandum that the nature and culture of the demonstrations have changed dramatically. However, we must remember that historically, in the 30s, we have had all kinds of demonstrations and mullets and other things that did not keep up with the prior announcements. But we are living today. I would not be able to accept this bill if it did not include maintaining the current legal status, that a declaration made 24 hours later could be considered valid. It's important. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u77	Mr President! This government proposal seems very strange. Just as Mr Sarkkinen said, it is a question of a right over 110 years old, granted to Finnish citizens by Czar Nikolai II. It is truly strange that today the government is proposing to weaken fundamental rights compared to 110 years ago. Among other things, the explanatory statement of the Government's proposal has argued that there are very different practices in different countries with regard to the advance notice period for demonstrations, but the fundamental question from the perspective of the Finnish Constitution and the fundamental rights of Finns is whether it is justified to undermine the fundamental rights of citizens as to what the situation is now. I do not think there is enough basis for this in the explanatory statement of the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u78	Madam President! Mr Sarkkinen criticised the fact that the proposal had been made too much from the point of view of the police. Personally, I would understand that a police perspective means the possibility of protecting demonstrators from various kinds of disturbances and problems, and in this respect it is not a question of the police, but of safeguarding the right to demonstrate. This is also a response to Mr Hassi, who saw that fundamental rights are being undermined here. You might as well see that this is where they are strengthened by making it easier to secure demonstrators. I personally like these things for 24 hours to be accepted. Three days would have been too much for me, too. I also agree that it is important to maintain the possibility of these so-called spontaneous demonstrations, as is the case with the law today, because, for example, international events, the occupation of one of our neighbours, for example, would cause immediate consequences.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u79	Mr President! I could continue with this spontaneous demonstration, i.e. how we ensure that so-called unpopular opinion can also be shown equally equally equally in this kind of spontaneous expression of opinion when quick situations arise. Then I, too, would rather increase the resources of the police and not extend the period of notification four times. But I do understand the spirit of time, given what is happening in Europe, and people are very disappointed with many things: France, for example, is currently in chaos. Then I would like to ask the Minister that, when there is a demonstration, so many times then some other group gets angry when someone shows their mind or somehow feels that they should not show their minds and they are easily violent. How can this be better addressed? I understand that with this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u80	Mr President! I, too, consider this bill to be good and desirable. This 24-hour announcement is quite reasonable, because it also makes it possible, as was clear in this speech by the Minister, to do with these spontaneous demonstrations, which, of course, are all right. Of course, people must have the opportunity to express themselves in Finland. I believe that the ability of the police to act on such a matter is an important aspect and that they should be given time by notification, the opportunity to organise it. As Mr Zyskowicz said here, the safety of demonstrators must be safeguarded, but also of people who do not take part in that demonstration. My question to the Minister is: How does the Finnish Government react to it when it is always discussed about masking its face? Could we also consider this in this context?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u82	Madam President! This government proposal is quite good. It is important to ensure that we have the constitutional right to meet and express our opinion, in other words to organise and participate in the demonstration. But I would see that, on the other hand, it is equally important to ensure the order and security of society, including their security, which is taking part in the demonstration. In other words, how much police resources are needed, how many officers are needed, whether transport arrangements are needed, whether there is a need for risk assessment — not necessarily at all of those who are taking part in the demonstration, but then there may be actors around it, who may also need to carry out risk assessments. In other words, the resources of the police around the demonstrations must be taken into account. I would see that if you are planning a demonstration, 24 hours is quite a good time, that is in 24 hours, and this proposal will also make it possible to organise it more spontaneous, faster.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u83	Madam President! Although this presentation has changed in a much more reasonable direction from that shocking three - day presentation in the autumn, I am still critical of this. I do understand this attempt to guarantee the right of each of us to demonstrate our minds safely. But at the same time I would like to remind you that the majority of us, the vast majority of us, are showing our minds peacefully and within the framework of the law. It is a huge question of principle on the basis of which we undermine fundamental rights, and here these arguments come from police resources, from the conditions under which the police operate. I would see the wiser way to ensure sufficient resources for the police before undermining our fundamental rights. There is a huge question of principle here, and the committee does indeed have a very challenging task to assess whether this proposed change is now proportionate to the benefits to be achieved. And I hope that, while working, the committee will have a broad consultation with civil society and NGOs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u84	Mr President! I also share Mr Pakkanen's concern about disguises in demonstrations and would be happy to hear from the Minister whether measures are planned. I would also question this starting point, which has been put forward several times, that a right should actually be undermined here, because so it is for the police to secure that demonstration. It has been seen that, without the presence of a police officer, there is often violence at the demonstrations, and the events turn into fearing violence there, and that, if anything, undermines the right to demonstrations if you have to fear violence. From Europe and now most recently Germany has just become sad news of political violence, and such a threat must be taken seriously in Finland too. The law was apparently last examined in 98 C.E., when the means to convene large security gatherings were quite different from today's, and I understand in that sense the basis for this bill. Here, however, the possibility remains for spontaneous demonstrations to be organised.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u85	Madam President! This extension of the period of advance notice is certainly a good thing if we see it that way, but we must of course be careful on these issues that the freedom of assembly is not to be restricted in order to make up for the lack of sufficient resources allocated to the police. In recent days we have read that there are too few police officers in Eastern Uusimaa to investigate criminal investigations, to investigate shoplifting and other activities, let alone tasks such as hidden crime, drug crime, the grey economy or the financial investigation — they are not doing so. Of course, immediate security tasks are being carried out. But if those cops aren't in East Uusimaa, then we don't have them in Lapland either. The municipality of Enontekiö has been a police officer for a long time, is spoken of as a really large municipality, and one can only wonder about it. The threshold for people to contact the police at all is rising because they already know that the police are far away.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u86	Mr President! Of course, the majority of the demonstrations in Finland are very peaceful, well-meaning citizens' speeches, which are carried out under the law. Unfortunately, as I even know, I regret, from my own hometown, that there are flags on the streets that are not part of democratic democracy, and there are two risks: one is that these marchers are being subjected to violence, for example, by various throwings of objects, and the other is that there will be counter-monitions, the intention of which is to create a confrontation. That is why I find it exceptionally necessary that the draft law presented by the Ministry should be implemented in a manageable manner in an open, tolerant, free society, as it is mentioned here. In this respect, I fully agree with some colleagues that three days would have been an unreasonable solution, but this is in an excellent way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u87	Madam President! My own view is that freedom of assembly should not be interfered with without sufficient justification, and it is precisely this government bill that is now plagued by the fact that there are no sufficient grounds here. For example, the explanatory statement does not indicate the number of such rapid schedule demonstrations in recent years and the problems that the police may have experienced. Nor do I consider it justified to refer to practices in other countries where fundamental rights are at a lower level than we do in Finland. So if there are bad practices in other countries, why should we go in that direction in Finland? Rather, should we not take account of these messages from different directions that police resources really are weak? It's been reported that it's been pretty disturbing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u88	Mr President! Of course, when it comes to restricting fundamental rights, as is the case with this bill, it is important that we also have a critical debate in this way and that this is illustrated in a very diverse way. And it is quite clear that this government proposal also relates to the question of the police's resources. What Mr Huhtasaari pointed out is true, of course, that this is also a link to freedom of expression, and it is good to say that it is not a question of creating more powers for the authorities to ban demonstrations, as it were, but rather a question of the authority being able to expect that demonstrations will take place in time, better than at the moment, and of taking into account the risks which, as Mrs Kanerva, for example, referred to here, may be more evident today, in other words, the security of citizens in the demonstrations will not be guaranteed in that way than in the past. That is why we need this fine addition to this preparation. Not to restrict the right to demonstration or freedom of expression,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u89	Mr President! Firstly, we have a constitutional right to freedom of assembly, but it is in the interests of all parties to be able to secure demonstrations and anticipate disturbances so that no one is harmed physically or otherwise. The motion mentions that, alongside the demonstrations, there has been an increase in protests, and it may be that major differences of opinion lead to such major clashes, as has happened. The extension of the notification period will enable us to give the police – it has been said here that there is a small shortage of resources – time to arrange shifts so that it can secure these demonstrations. After all, the police have a legal obligation to secure gatherings and demonstrations. It is therefore the interest of the congregators, not the limitation of their activities. This proposed deadline of 24 hours is not such as to prevent or limit:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u90	Mr President! I am a little moved to hear how many people here are concerned that fundamental rights are being addressed. The Finns have tried to have a discussion about the fact that the freedom of assembly is being carried out in order for a person to express himself, that is why he goes there, so that it is also linked to the fundamental right, that is, freedom of speech. Recently, measures in Europe and Finland focus on how to undermine the right of a person to speak, where it is restricted. The Minister has also launched the Against Hate project, which is against hate speech, but I would have liked that hate speech to finally be defined for us. The judges are a little surprised that they are being trained in hate speech when it is still not even defined in the Criminal Code. And as a second tip, I'd give the Attorney General an idea to have a speech-for-speak project, that is to say, a speaker's market or something. Now our only answer to that confrontation is that we limit the talking of people instead of bringing them together to talk. That would be another solution. Now we just want to shut everybody up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u91	Unfortunately, I have to limit the speeches here, but next, Mr Tolppanen, the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u92	Mr President! Of course, now that we have extended this time, we are a little bit on top of the rocking board. As a journalist and a professional on that side of the world, I was thinking specifically about freedom of expression and freedom of assembly: at what point will the limit be drawn, as it were, to try to make them more difficult. Maybe it's not here yet. But the other thing that is here is precisely these protests. That's what I'm thinking. How about these protests, how they do it? I don't think they'll know when the demonstration is until it is. And then another thing: violent demonstrations. I do not believe that anyone who wishes to organise a violent demonstration will report it to anyone any earlier. So, in a way, it might be a good idea to brighten this up a little bit. And even more important, it would be to have a total of 7850 police officers. Then we'd be on the right level.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u93	Madam President! The social era is also challenging this issue, and I would like to say that from the point of view of police resources it may be a little difficult to make legislation that interferes with fundamental rights, that is to say to be careful about these. Of course, the proposal has gone in a better direction in that we no longer talk about three days. Spontaneous demonstrations or, they say, rapid demonstrations may occur in hours. It is easy to see the situation if, for example, there is a terrorist attack somewhere, that after that, in Finland too, there is a desire to organise a candle demonstration in memory of the victims — it may be about hours. Or, for example, in recent days the news has shown how a young Saudi woman apparently fled to Bangkok for forced marriage. The whole thing had been dealt with, as it were, in a few hours or about a day, but it would be quite possible that, in such situations, someone would like to organise a demonstration in front of the embassy to support this young woman. In view of such situations, it is worth being very careful whether we need to extend the advance period for demonstrations. I think the current 6 hours is pretty good.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u94	Let us take three more replies, then the Minister's replies and then go to the next point. Representatives Hongisto, Kari Mika and Satonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u95	Mr President! In the Chamber the word ‘police’ has been mentioned,and the President has also given a speech to the police. When considering the resources of the police and others, I urge the representatives of the government parties to look in the mirror. During the last three or four government terms, police resources have been significantly reduced. I am delighted with every word that is said in this Chamber that we want to increase the resources of the police. Indeed, I hope that it will continue during the next reign. But my esteemed representative, Mr Gustafsson, spoke very wisely and well. Mr Gustafsson has understood the content of this law. He drew particular attention to the fact that the purpose is not to increase police power or police arbitrage, but precisely to enable the police, with their additional resources, to safeguard the physical integrity of those who express themselves. This is everything a and o. The police must maintain public order and security and ensure the physical integrity of persons who have demonstrated their mind. That is what this bill aims to achieve. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u96	Madam President! I would like to listen to the fact that so many Members of Parliament over the opposition axis and beyond the party lines believe that increasing the number of police officers is an increase in security for this people and citizens, and I hope that, during the next government, progress will be made on this issue. Of course, whether it be 7850 or something more or less, it is not automatically enough to safeguard the freedom of assembly and freedom of expression of the citizens at various occasions, as Mrs Kanerva well pointed out. The most remarkable flags, the most remarkable hand greetings, or a counter-resembling demonstration, are being made, and these occasions are often escalated even to the use of violence. I would have asked the Minister again: in what way do you see this masking of face already asked here, or the fluttering of flags? Does this bill have tools to combat the kind of extremism that should not be adopted in a democratic society?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u97	Let's take Satone and Sarkkinen and then the minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u98	Mr President! I am also very pleased that almost every speech has mentioned the resources of the police and the need to increase the number of policemen, and one might imagine that the message will then be passed on. And fortunately, it has already cared that the number of admissions at the Tampere Police School has risen from 300 to 400, I understand. In other words, more police officers are already being trained there, and that will partly help this situation, but I am sure we must continue. As far as this draft law is concerned, I see it in the same way as Mr Kanerva, who mentioned earlier that the problem is specifically linked to the demonstrations which then easily create counter-monitions. And in order to safeguard the security of both demonstrators, protestors and, above all, bystanders in that situation, we need some sort of time to prepare. It seems that there is now such a very reasonable solution and a solution that takes all aspects into account has been found.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u99	Mr President! The need to safeguard demonstrations is an important and essential aspect which is now mirrored in the limitation of freedom of assembly resulting from the extension of the obligation to notify. In addition to this particular issue, it is essential to consider whether restricting freedom of assembly is the right way in principle to respond to the need for police resources. But, Mr President, it is now and will continue to be possible for the police to allow demonstrations to take place in a shorter period than the advance notice period. This is particularly important if the notification period is now significantly extended. I would therefore ask the Minister to continue to use the possibility of interpreting that spontaneous demonstrations can be organised if the demonstration does not cause undue harm to public order, even if the notice period has already expired. In other words, we will continue to use this opportunity to allow spontaneous demonstrations, as it were, with very free thought.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u100	And Minister Häkkänen, answers please, no more than five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u101	Mr President! Thank you for the good questions. The purpose of this project is to strengthen and safeguard the implementation of fundamental rights in Finland. This project is not intended to reduce fundamental rights, freedom of expression or freedom of expression. Newsing the matter went completely to the wrong gangs from the wrong title ‘The government wants to restrict the expression of the mind’. Fortunately, the title was later corrected. But it is precisely a matter of the state having a duty under the European Convention on Human Rights to safeguard everyone's right to express their minds even on painful issues, whether it be sexual minorities or government criticisms or anything, without prior authorisation or without government control. But this advance notice is not a permit, it is precisely to ensure that the government fulfils its obligations under the Convention on Human Rights, that everyone is allowed to express their minds, for example, at the Railway Market without counter- protestors being able to threaten, for example, the demonstration process of sexual minorities or the other way around, or without problems for the bystanders. The reason for the project is precisely that these problems, counter-monitions or even individual violent demonstrations have also landed in Finland two years ago in front of the Railway Market. The project has a background in these matters. And with regard to these questions about police resources, it is a question of the police’s operating conditions, that is, whether the resources themselves are sufficient to get the way out of the way, to ensure that the procession is able to pass, to ensure that the public is walking and bystanders are walking, and to prevent aggressive protesters, for example, from attacking the main procession or vice versa. So it is not necessarily a question of the police having too little resources, but of whether there is time to prepare. That's what this is all about. The question was then asked why there is international comparison with different countries. Sweden has almost a week's prior notification period and even a permit, many countries have four to five days' licences, Spain has up to 10 days' prior notification period. International comparisons are part of the drafting of legislation. That's why it's there. Period.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u106	The debate and proceedings are suspended at this stage. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u107	We will now resume the debate on item 4 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u108	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the assembly law. According to the Constitution, each of us has the right to hold and participate in meetings and demonstrations without obtaining permission. This provision guarantees not only our right to organise meetings and demonstrations but also our right to participate in meetings and demonstrations organised by others. There is no such possibility in every country, even in this area close to Finland. In addition to the Constitution, we have a convention law designed to ensure the exercise of the freedom of assembly provided for in the Constitution and to guide the organisation of public meetings and public events by means of necessary and orderly provisions. This law applies to both general meetings and public events. According to the proposal, a meeting outside the public office should be notified to the police at the meeting place of the current 6 hours at least 24 hours before the start of the meeting. I believe that change is necessary and very important. This change will not diminish anyone's rights, but will remain the same. This change, however, means that there is time for meetings and demonstrations by the police, especially in small police stations. In the case of North Karelia, where I would be a general or field leader: I will be there on duty at 8 a.m., and at 10 a.m. I will be informed of a major demonstration to be carried out at 4 p.m., and all eight policemen in the province will be ordered to safeguard the rights of demonstrators. At the same time, the rest of the province is deprived of police services. Sometimes it is worth thinking about things from the point of view of the police and not just about exercising the rights of demonstrators. Let me repeat this last important phrase: this change does not diminish anyone's rights, but remains the same.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u109	Mr President! The government's justification for its proposal is very good in ensuring public opinion and freedom of assembly. If only we had received a government proposal that the government would not justify with a good and worthy cause. However, this is a question of weakening the fundamental right of citizens,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u114	Mr President! The purpose of the Assembly Act is to create the conditions for the maximum practical implementation of freedom of assembly. The starting point of the law is that public meetings and public events are not restricted by unnecessary regulations and permits. The strengthening of the obligation to notify the current practice is justified, above all, by safeguarding the capacity of the police to react. The purpose of the deadline is to provide sufficient time for the police to prepare themselves for their duties under the law relating to the meeting, but above all to maintain order and public security. The growth of social injustice, social inequality and disadvantage has clearly changed the climate in which we are discussing the shortcomings in our society. This has been particularly evident in the public debate and in the context of demonstrations and various events. Social media reach huge numbers of people in an unprecedented way, and the organisation of events and events goes much faster than before. The present 6 hours is a short period of time in this world and relative to this. We have far too many cases and experiences of situations where outright hostility and its public demonstration have even led to violent confrontations, thereby endangering public safety and causing significant traffic damage as a by-product. These facts must be taken seriously. Although the government's proposal does not conflict with the provisions of the Constitution or the International Human Rights Act, we must take the protection of freedom of assembly extremely seriously and, therefore, also the safeguarding of the conditions for civil society to operate. With freedom of expression, we are talking about the very ultimate stone leg of the rule of law, freedom of opinion and freedom of speech. Freedom of assembly is a political nuclear right of Finnish democracy, a constitutional right of each of us. Justice is also internationally recognised. A great many colleagues in this Chamber have already said that the extension to three days in the previous government proposal would have been totally unreasonable. I couldn't agree more. A changing world requires a new way of thinking and action from us. Security needs its agents. It is noteworthy that a change of law is justified by the lack of resources available to the police. The lack of resources is real and has led to the need for some prioritisation of tasks. However, it cannot be that the necessary security-related tasks are carried out, but, in particular, in the case of hidden crime, drug-related investigations, the fight against the shadow economy and financial investigations, there is a need to do away with this. In addition, the scarcity of resources is also easily reflected in traffic control and preventive patrols of crime. The SDP has proposed raising the number of police officers to the Nordic level as quickly as possible. Police funding must be secured on a long-term basis, not through additional local budgets. The purpose of this legislative reform is not to restrict fundamental rights but to guarantee the security of demonstrations. The aim is not to increase police power but, rather, to secure freedom of assembly so that the security of both demonstrators and bystanders is not jeopardised under any circumstances. Above all, it is also a question of preparedness, and that is what we need in this world and in this time. I also think it is very important that the extension of the notice period does not prevent spontaneous demonstrations in the future, as the bill now suggests. This, too, is a matter of concern that has been raised very commonly in this Chamber today. I hope, therefore, that in the further preparation of the law, attention will also be paid to the issues raised by me in this speech. We cannot seriously undermine constitutional rights, but of course we cannot consciously reduce the conditions for civil society to operate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u115	Mr President! The Constitution gives citizens the right to meet in public and to demonstrate themselves. Justice also brings responsibilities. The right of assembly is counterbalanced by the obligation to comply with the laws and regulations in force and the rules of order. Unfortunately, not everyone is following these, but there may be a disturbance of order and even obvious damage, especially if at the same time there is a demonstration and a counter-moment in the same place. In order to prevent these disturbances and ensure their own safety, the police maintaining public order and security need to know where to gather, how many people are expected to meet and whether the crowd involved in the demonstration will remain in place or move and, if so, by which route. The police must have this information in good time so that the police can draw up their own action plan to ensure the safety of the assembled crowd. The current 6-hour reporting period is to cancel the past years when there were no social media such as today. Today, in social media, a variety of discussion columns can quickly inform and gather up to thousands of people to express themselves, and of course such a number of people cause problems, at least as a group of people, in addition to possible disruptions of order, just as Mrs Mäkinen has well proved and pointed out in her recent speech. Mr President! When this law comes into force, it will provide the police with better opportunities to prepare themselves by means of shift planning, various requests for assistance and also by means of traffic management arrangements to ensure the smooth flow of various expressions of thought, i.e. to safeguard them. When the police maintain public order, those who take part in the demonstration can focus on the matter and do not have to fear for their own safety. Mr President! I support this bill and thank Mr Mäki for his very good speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u116	Mr President! I would simply ask — when it has been stated many times in this debate that today's social media and other means of communication make it possible to convene events, including demonstrations, even on a fast schedule — how many such events are there, in fact, that fewer than 24 hours' notice has been given, for example, to gather demonstrations of thousands of people. I very much believe that information spreads to thousands of people in less than an hour, but how is the reality of the fact that thousands of people at less than 24 hours’ notice change their own plans, different kinds of shopping, studies, work, children’s day care and all their plans for everyday life, with such quick notice? Of course, such possibilities exist theoretically, but has such a possibility been realised in practice? I would really like the Constitutional Committee to explain in more practical terms than the explanatory statement of the government's proposal how common these problems have been and whether these problems have actually been such that this extension of the notice period would solve those problems, and also whether there are perhaps more limited ways of dealing with certain problems: for example, if the problem is counter-monitored, would it be possible to formulate an article in the law which would specifically address the problem so as not to fire a cannon on a fly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u117	Mr President! Congressman Hassi asked me some smart questions. I do not know, nor do I know, whether there has been such a demonstration, but I do hope, indeed, that we will never find ourselves in a situation where it will be realised. In my view, it is the task of the legislation to ensure that we never get into a situation where, with the help of a few policemen, public order and security are maintained in a situation where there are hundreds or even thousands of people, if this situation becomes a dangerous act of violence. The purpose of the law is precisely to ensure that we never get into such a situation. And yes, I see this in the very way that it is up to us to ensure the safety of our citizens. If we begin to organise coexistence between demonstrations and protests, we will very quickly end up in a situation where we wonder which group of demonstrations is now more legitimate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u118	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 14/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u119	Madam President! The proposal proposes to introduce a law on the cultural activities of municipalities. The proposal provides municipalities with new ways of organising the municipality's cultural activities, and I consider this to be a very important point. The proposal would update the provisions on municipal and state funding. The proposal would include the objectives of the cultural activities of the municipalities, the tasks of the state authorities, the participation of the residents of the municipality, the development function, cooperation and the production of information and evaluation of operations. The law would replace the current law from 92 C.E., which is about time. The starting point of the revised law has been the promotion of creative activities related to culture and art and equal opportunities for all population groups to participate in culture, art and culture. As a basic and local service, the municipality would be responsible for organising cultural activities in accordance with the objectives and tasks of the law. This starting point is very challenging when we know of the potential of small Finnish municipalities to produce different cultural activities. In many municipalities, cultural activities are limited to the library and its services and summer theatres, which are now very popular. However, I believe that the legislative drafting presented has taken into account a wide range of cultural needs and views. The social significance and impact of both culture and art are also more clearly recognised and recognised. The proposed law strengthens the role of culture in the operations of the municipality and justifies the importance and status of culture as a basic service of the municipality. It also supports municipalities of the future in key respects and recognizes the diverse and important importance of art and culture for us residents and the vitality of the municipality. On the other hand, the excellent law repeals the sentence of the proposal, which states that the means of implementing the action are to decide the municipality within the framework of its autonomy, taking into account local circumstances. So the municipality decides, neither Parliament nor the State produced the law. This law encourages municipalities to cooperate, but it also requires consensus and harmony. It is important that the cultural activities of municipalities are accessible to all population groups and that this cannot be influenced by individual delegates and their hate-love relationship. Culture belongs to all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u120	Mr President! It is great that the legislation on cultural activities is being reformed. The current law dates back to the early 1990s, so long ago, so it is time. The field of activity has changed considerably over the years. Among other things, defining the objectives of cultural activities and promoting the participation of residents are worthwhile objectives. For the most part, I think it is a good proposal. However, Mrs Savio and I have tabled an objection to the report. Like my party, I appreciate the Finnish cultural heritage very high. In this respect, there is room for improvement in the government proposal. The proposal fails to preserve our national traditions. The economic conditions of local museums or other actors providing cultural heritage for future generations should be better safeguarded in the presentation. There is a tight economic situation in many municipalities, and cultural services are not known to be at the top of the priority list of municipalities in distress. In this context, index freezes that are drying up the local government sector should be cancelled for the cultural sector. In addition, we are concerned about the future of domestic research and cultural services. The impact of withdrawing money has now been cut sufficiently, for example in the field of home-country research. This kind of activity in a long run is incalculable to our cultural activity. For these reasons, we, the Finns, are protesting against the report of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, which contains two motions for statements. Although they will be presented at the next part-session, for the sake of assurance, so that representatives can familiarise themselves with these good statements, I will read them here. ‘The Commission requires that the necessary government measures to cancel the index And second: ‘The government requires that the necessary government measures be taken to assess the impact of savings decisions on home-country research and culture. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u121	Mr President! I will therefore change the structure of the content of my speech and continue with that last part of the speech by Mrs Elomaa, in which you raised these objections from the Finns of Finland, you read two statements. I have been asked why the Social Democrats have not supported these proposals when they look nice. Let me say the following: they were not negotiated in advance. In general, I can say that the cooperation with the Finns has been moderate, but these came out of the bush at the time of the proceedings. Well, now that I have become more familiar with them, there will be political news — I hope that the media will listen carefully somewhere: the Finns of Peru have neither a budget protest nor an alternative budget for culture but EUR 3 million for the Museum of Local and Regional Affairs. So your first statement, in which you propose to cancel the index freezes on central government co-financing, is empty talk. It springs from emptiness. The social democrats had EUR 12 million in their own budget option — and we also voted on it — for state aid reform, index and reform of museums, theatres and orchestras. That I saw it. I feel like such political populism now, if I dare to use these words, which I have tried to avoid. Then you have another statement which requires an assessment of the impact of austerity decisions on local research and culture. It is probably valuable and important for each of us, domestic research, local museums and so on. It remains to be seen, then, how our group will react to this second statement in the vote. But I can see that that too is behind more of this kind of basic Finnish political stance than necessarily now just now serious cultural policy. [RitvaEloa intermediate call] Mr President! From another point of view, I would like to say why there is no objection from the Social Democrats, for example. Both this bill of government and the consultation of experts supported the view contained in this report, and this paragraph is unanimous: ‘The committee agrees that the importance of the concepts of art and culture in the context of the draft law isresponsible and multifaceted. The Government's proposal highlights both the value of cultural services provided by municipalities and the absolute value of art as well as the increased importance of culture in social policy. Culture is extensively linked to the role of municipalities in promoting the well-being of residents and the vitality of the municipality.” As a Member of Parliament from Tampere, Pirkanmaa, culture has been taken very seriously and seriously from this very point of view in terms of the well-being of the inhabitants and the vitality of the municipality, so that it serves the whole Pirkanmaa and the entire nation of Finland. Then, too, when we talked about this social importance, we also know that culture has a growing role to play in the national economy. In Finland, too, nearly 4 per cent of the labour force works in the cultural sector, and this is important. Then, too, our report makes a strong point about the preservation of cultural heritage — traditional culture: arts, events, library activities and so on — and we also emphasise the importance of the cultural environment as part of culture. It is related to the life of every citizen and is constantly present, telling of the history of the region and instilling the resident in his home country.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u122	Mr President! This is a very important issue, namely culture and then the role of municipalities in securing and supporting this important cultural work. I looked at this report from the committee and I am pleased that the committee clearly underscores in its own position, for example, that culture must be seen as part of basic services, as part of basic services for municipalities. I think it is important to note that a large part of citizens' well-being comes from it and that we can strengthen their mental well-being, precisely because the opportunity to be creative, the opportunity to work with culture, the opportunity to enjoy culture and art belongs to everyone, it belongs to us all. It has also been a central highlight of what we Social Democrats emphasise in our own cultural thinking. Culture belongs to everyone, and I am delighted that this committee's report also underscores this. When Mr Gustafsson presented this committee's report, he also said very well that it has seen the importance of culture and art in a broad sense, which is very important. Not only does culture and art have a significant intrinsic value, but today it is also known to have an increasing impact on people's health, well-being, mental and even physical well-being, which is of enormous importance to regional economies, to the potential of livelihoods to develop, to local employment, to all of this. I also welcome the fact that in its report the committee recognises, among other things, the importance of culture for well-being and hence the social dimension as well as, for example, the importance of culture overall and its role in the economy as a whole. One of the things they say is that 6.8% of Europe's gross domestic product already comes from cultural issues. Of course, as a Pirkanman, I could say that we have indeed seen it. It is wonderful to come from the province where art and culture flourish. I always remember, for example, a study that was carried out in our province and which certainly applies elsewhere. There Pirfest studied the significance of regional economies by having festivals, cultural events in our region. It was huge. In a year and a half it was over 200 million good for the regional economy, and everyone can understand that the significance will then be enormous and great. It was also a joy when I was at a meeting of various cultural actors, could you say, a cooperation body or such a group of partners, KULTA ry, which dealt with these issues between the art field. There I said that great work has been done, including with Sitra’s involvement in this, when such assessments have been made, that what is the impact of culture, even from the employment point of view, which is the impact of culture from the perspective of inclusion, which is the impact of culture from the perspective of health and well-being, which from the point of view of knowledge, inclusion, all this, and it was really important. Surely we all get access to that material and then we can use it also in our own thinking when we hope to support culture now and also in the future. This is for the general. Then, as far as Mr Gustafsson's attention is concerned, I am also surprised if it is that, unfortunately, the Finns of Peru have not secured resources in their alternative budget to keep the state contributions at the current level and even to increase them. As social democrats, we have a clear commitment to this, because we see that, at the moment, how orchestras, museums and theatres develop into a system of state participation is of great importance in the future. It is the support for culture and art, which is applied evenly throughout Finland, to every province. We are now in the process of this reform of the VOS, which we know, and we have also had discussions here, that it is going to be implemented in the coming year, with a certain amount of funding earmarked for the further development of VOS in the museum sector and then for the free groups of performing arts, but these are very small sums, they are not enough, and it would be very important to get this reform through, once and for all, with the necessary additional euro. It's very important. Among other things, when the Committee on Finance produced the report on the budget, we unanimously stated in it, through our efforts, which we discussed in the Section for Education and Science, that Parliament would require this reform of the VOS to be carried forward with ‘sufficient resources’, underlining: ‘sufficient resources’. First of all, when this reform started, Mr Grahn-Laasonen said that it should be cost-neutral, and everyone understands that it will only lead to these disasters, that even the Tampere Workers' Theatre was shown a minus sign sometimes. Of course that's not possible. Fortunately, this was rejected and has now come to the conclusion that this is not going to work — everyone knows in practice. If we want reform, it needs additional resources, and I think culture, President, deserves it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u123	Mr President! I too would like to say that today we are talking about an important issue when it comes to culture. It was a pleasure to listen to these previous speeches, especially Mrs Viitanen's excellent speech on cultural resources and future development projects in many ways. I am not currently a member of the Committee on Culture, but, as far as I understand it, this proposal from the government is a daily law on the cultural activities of municipalities, which dates from 1992. This proposed law would therefore include the objectives of the cultural activities of the municipalities, the tasks of the state authorities, the participation of the residents of the municipality, the development function, cooperation and the production and evaluation of information and activities, while at the same time updating the provisions on the functions of the municipality and the financing of the state. The law is therefore based on the promotion of creative activities related to culture and art and on equal opportunities for all population groups to participate in culture, art and culture. The most significant contribution to this bill is probably that it proposes national and uniform data collection and evaluation of municipal cultural services, a data collection system designed to improve the current state of affairs in order to know how cultural policy objectives in different municipalities across Finland will be achieved. This kind of national information is needed, and I warmly support the collection of information about the state of cultural services, because we know that there are very different situations in different parts of Finland in the organisation of cultural activities and in the development of cultural services, and that there are quite significant differences in this statistics, especially from one municipality to another. For example, if we think that the regional reform will come into force — it is now a question mark whether we will be able to decide on it during this period — and if provinces are to be established or set up in such larger areas of population responsibility, for which perhaps then in the future there will be social and other, then I find it terribly important to update the idea of which cultural services, activities and funding belong to municipalities and then what these new provinces will be able to do. When this is decided, it is very important, among other things, that we know what cultural service structures exist in different municipalities around Finland. This proposal is essential to support future civilisations and recognizes the diverse and important importance of art and culture for local residents and the vitality of the municipality, and, in the event of future structural reforms, such as regional and social reform, the tasks of municipalities will be directed more strongly towards this sector, i.e. the organisation of cultural, cultural and leisure services. In this administrative, planetary reform, as far as it is progressing, I see an opportunity not only to strengthen the role of culture in the municipalities but also to bring it as a new, strong element in the regions. For example, I myself have spoken very strongly in the past in favour of extending the principle of cultural percentages to the social welfare sector, for example, and I see the possibility that, if the funds for social welfare are transferred to the regions, this idea of cultural percentage could also be introduced there. If we really believe that culture produces well-being and that it is not just warm talk about things like this, then it would be well-founded to think that even within the budgets of the social services, a small percentage — let it begin with half a percent if not — could be used specifically to bring culture to, for example, old people's houses or day care and so on, where people are and where it would improve people's well-being. I find it extremely commendable in this committee's opinion that the committee stresses the important role of culture in the national economy. It is growing, and if we compare it with other Nordic countries, Finland would have the potential to increase the share of culture in GDP and its importance in employment, as a source of jobs. We all know that climate change, the climate crisis, is the most important threat and the most important problem of our time, and we must in future, for example, shift the budget for employment from environmentally polluting sectors to areas where there is no environmental damage. For example, it makes sense to look at whether cultural and artistic resources can be increased through this: moving away from those areas which pollute the environment where services do not harm the environment, but improve the welfare of people and society on average. Culture is already producing 6.8% of European GDP and, according to an expert opinion, a more narrow definition of the cultural sector is already employing 3.5% of the workforce, and there are indeed conditions for growth. Culture accounts for 4.7 per cent of total consumption expenditure and 5.8 per cent of private consumption expenditure. Indeed, cultural consumption is, as a rule, an environmentally friendly consumption compared to many other consumptions. In other words, there is a lot of good in this bill, but if you look at the budget for culture and cultural policy as a whole, there is a lot of room for development, and I really hope that the next government negotiations, for example, will return to the VOS reform in that way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u124	Mr President! When the Finns of Finland put forward progressive things for culture, it seems not good enough for the SDP.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u131	Mr President! As I said in my speech, the actions and statements made by the Finns on this matter were brought in while the meeting was under way, and yes, the culture of action is that if we want to involve other parties and opposition groups, they will be discussed together. It would have been good to have a joint statement on these, I think, better, if there had been a will. This was this type of separation or a profile lift, and that is not the big deal now, but it has to be intervened on this type of issue. It has nothing to do with social democratic cultural policy. In fact, the entire Social Democratic Workers' Movement was born as a cultural movement in the working sectors, in connection with the start of public library activities, with the sound bands and others,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u132	Mr President! That is exactly what Mr Gustafsson said. For my part, I would always like to see these issues promoted best so that, for example, in order to make the extra funding that culture needs and deserves now possible in the coming years, it would be very important for every party here before the elections to be clearly committed to implementing the reform of the VOS and to securing the missing millions. They are a small part of a large entity called the state economy, and it is more of a way to take it away from the state economy than to destroy it if millions of them were to come to culture. What is the subject of our criticism and what really needs to be said is that if we make such good statements, which can certainly be well supported in itself and which can be voted for, it would certainly be good if our own alternative budgets were also financially prepared for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u133	Mr President! I looked at that website of multiculturalism, such as the Adult Education Centre, that what culture is. Culture includes art and literature, ways of thinking and feeling, methods, models, emotions, body language, lifestyles, traditions, fundamental rights, beliefs. When I think about discussions here in the Chamber of Parliament and outside the Chamber of Parliament, the Finns of Finland have very strongly displayed Finnish, Finnish culture, Finnish nature heritage, Finnish language, Finnishness. We have talked about the fact that Finland should be in the country like a country. I do not see that we are not investing in culture, because culture is a broad concept. For example, attitudes, the Finnish language, the customs learned — I do not quite understand how I should think that there must be money in them. It's an existing thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u140	Mr President! The starting point of this law is the promotion of culture and art, all related activities in such a way that different groups of the population are also able to participate and take advantage of the important elements of this area. It is also intended to take better account of local conditions and the different needs and expectations of the various population groups. As has been the case with many good speeches, the previous representative The sea highlighted the immense scope of the concept of culture. It includes a very wide range of different elements. We Christian Democrats and I have expressed a great deal of importance not only, of course, to introduce and exploit new modern cultural elements, but also to ensure that the important cultural elements of our cultural heritage are passed on to the next generations. And in all of this, when it comes to proposing the cultural activities of municipalities, it is, of course, very important that efforts are also made to provide adequate resources, that is to say the resources that create those conditions for action. Culture has a great deal of impact and there is also a great deal of potential in this area when we think about promoting health and well-being. When we think of children, young adults and also the large number of elderly people, loneliness, exclusion and so on, there is plenty of potential for culture and its various elements here, and I would see that we also have such untapped opportunities to promote health and well-being. In this previous speech, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto mentioned, for example, services for the elderly. I am thinking of home services, nursing homes, different kinds of care units: music, art, different cultural elements used there are easily related to work and work of the day, and they can create much more health and well-being than, I believe, the average level of understanding in Finland so far. When we think of cultural activities, as has been said many times, of course, resources are a key element, but then, of course, the cultural environment also: when planning the city, planning the transport connections, the built environment and also the important elements of nature that have already been raised in this Chamber today, there are also a lot of cultural elements that we could have.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u141	Mr President! Just to start with, I did try very carefully to hear whether the Finns of Finland would have some explanation as to why their alternative budget clearly does not provide for additional appropriations to dismantle the freeze on the state participation indices of cultural action, because you, in the effort that you are now proposing here, are suggesting that this should be done. It would, of course, be quite logical for the funds to be put forward. We do have 12 million, that is to say both the dismantling of the freeze and the financial provisions for the future VOS reform. And that brings me to the important idea that I have tried very hard to talk about on various occasions when I have encountered people working in the field of culture, as well as other political parties when I am on the same table, that it is very necessary for us all to be able to commit ourselves in our party programmes to, for example, a few million, which will then be needed for a state-representation reform of culture, to jointly commit ourselves to investing in the coming period, because I am, President, absolutely convinced that if we invest in it a sum of money x — a few tens of millions of euros it will demand — we invest in the future, we will gain a lot of employment and growth, we will gain a great deal of intellectual well-being, an increase in the creativity of people, and so on the whole of the economy, I believe that this commitment and this investment will be worthwhile. And as social democrats, for example, we have announced our own cultural agenda. I hope everyone gets to know it. It has been very well said that it is a good programme and, among other things, it commits itself to this percentage principle, which I would also like other parties to catch. President! In other words, my starting point is to seek consensus here all the time, and I would hope that, before the elections, for example, when we have these debates on general policy, the cultural policy part will also rise to the debate even among the party leaders and among all the parties, in order to clarify how the various parties feel about them. So I think this is a positive thing and it is a good thing that this should be promoted. For our part, we have played our part. We have already, in our protests, prepared for these sums of money and for the future also in our programmes, and so far we have wanted to do something to improve the scarce resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u142	Mr President! Article 17 of the Constitution is entitled to their own language and culture. Paragraph 3 states that the Sami indigenous people, as well as the Roma and other groups, have the right to maintain and develop their own language and culture. So the whole country has the right to maintain and develop its own language and culture. Municipalities are at the heart of cultural activity in a great many areas, and I am very pleased with this bill as a whole. Culture has been dealt with in a variety of ways, because it is a very important issue for all of us. But now I will bring up the Sami issue here. I tried to read the bill, I tried to read this report, and this was by the way very little taken into account by the indigenous people of Sámi, who currently exist throughout Finland. There are currently 10,000 people on the electoral list of the Sámi people, and only some of the Sámi are included in that list. There are 3,000 of them living in the Sami region, 7,000 elsewhere in Finland. There are also us forest Lapps and others who have a very strong Sámi culture in our blood and in our affairs in many places. In this Act on the cultural aspects of municipalities, which is now being dealt with, the Sami people are mentioned only in Article 5, which states: ‘In the Sámi region,the needs of the Sámi-speaking and Finnish-speaking population group must be taken into account on the basis of such criteria. “ Indeed, the Constitution requires that the Sami indigenous people, as well as the Roma and other groups, have the right to maintain and develop their own language and culture, and I believe that this draft law is now totally under-estimated on the Sami side. And it is also a bad thing that, when I looked at who was consulted in that committee, the Sámi have not been consulted at all. Hopefully, when this issue is taken forward, it will be taken into account that Sami is much more than just a language issue. It is a culture on a large scale. Let us hope that this will go forward in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u143	Mr President! Mrs Majala made a very good and important speech. It may be that, as I interpret it in the best possible way now, however, when the Sámi issue was so strongly mentioned in this section, it did not appear in the expert consultation, I think. I should have. I will also pass on this criticism to the chairman of the committee in case of opposition. This was such a heavy speech that I think it should be recorded in our hearts that this will not happen again. Mr President! In fact, I asked for my contribution to this kind of finale, as far as the funding of culture is concerned. I see that we are talking about the museum, the theatre, the music, perhaps even the film, the dance and so on. And when it comes to the Committee on Culture and Culture, my favourite topic is to see comprehensive school and basic education more closely linked to culture and culture, and it is through arts and arts. When we have sufficient resources for museum, theatre and music activities, it also serves and crows and collaborates with primary school and especially with children, because I see that the food and wings of the future will be available to children through arts, arts and culture. They carry, the data changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u144	Mr President! This government bill contains many very good and worthy things, such as increasing the participation of citizens, extending linguistic rights. Mrs Majala rightly drew attention to the linguistic rights of the Sami people, but there is something to be developed. When the starting point of this government bill is not to provide more resources, it is a little difficult in practice to imagine how all these good goals would actually be achieved without additional resources. As far as linguistic rights are concerned, the Green Parliamentary Group wishes to draw attention to the rights of sign-language speakers, which, in our opinion, have not been sufficiently taken into account in this government proposal. Furthermore, in these areas which we hope will then be considered by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, it is also the way in which the knowledge of artists, art professionals, can be better exploited in the municipalities in the new fields of activity. Mr Gustafsson raised basic education and culture here. I think, for example, that this is where basic education and culture, how to put it, could be a good opportunity to increase the role of art professionals, artists, and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u146	Mr President! I will return to Mr Gustafsson's speech at the beginning and to the eruption of the statement made by the Finns of Peru. In my opinion, the tone of the speech was somewhat astonishing. I am used to thinking of my colleague as a lawyer, but perhaps that is where a little emotion has now surfaced. It was particularly surprising in the sense that it was clear from the speech made by the representative that the statements we made were clearly acceptable in substance. Mr President! Of course, the way in which Parliament operates must always be developed in itself. Each representative may wonder on how the committee work is to be done and, of course, it is good to develop cooperation between the opposition, but I would still prefer this to the actual procedure. These statements are now here in the House and we can vote on them next week, as I see it. After all, last December Parliament approved the state budget for this year. However, these statements of ours can already be accepted here for the future. After all, in our alternative budget, we presented EUR 3 million to museums in the region. Of course, it was not accepted here in Parliament. I am also a little surprised at Mr Gustafsson's comment in his first speech that the arguments used by the Finns of Peru are somewhat incorrectly formulated or put forward. I don't know what he was referring to. Among other things, we have stated in our protest that we attach great importance to respect for and upholding the national traditions of our country. In addition, we note that museum activities fostering Finland’s national history and cultural traditions are close to our heart, and we also want to ensure that the funding of museums is adequate and encourage museums to record the stories of objects in their collections and to extend the documentation of history up to today’s future generations. So I don't really know what was so scandalous about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u147	Mr President! Once again, I listened carefully to what the fundamentals said, and I still did not hear the answer to the simple question, that if and when you make a very good point in my view that Parliament requires that index cuts to the state of culture should not be made, which we agree with — the Social Democrats have also presented it and, in their alternative budget, also budgeted for this, and we can certainly support it, because we ourselves have recorded it in our own presentations — so why do you not have the resources to do so then in these options? That has been our question, and when we ask it fairly and honestly why it does not exist, we will not get an answer to it. Instead, we get some accusations and others, which I think is completely pointless, and I'm going to throw them in the trash. The debate on cultural policy is valuable and it would now be important for us all to understand its importance and why we support it. And yes, Mr President, I still hope that this parliamentary term will come to an end and, unfortunately, this period will not be able to bring the reform of the VOS, with sufficient resources, forward, that, before the elections, we will have an honest debate on whether we will now have a common will to fund culture more in the interests of the common good in the years to come than today, in the very sense of making the creative economy flourish, employment, vitality in the various regions, improving the mental well-being of people, the creativity of children, the right of all people to culture. I would argue that if we were to jointly commit that this funding could be increased over the coming years, for example by programme, this nation would win a lot in it. That is what I have applied for, at least in my own speeches, and I think that, with Mr Gustafsson, we have raised a quite legitimate question about this somewhat more procedural issue, that, if you want a boost, then you must also have the resources for these in your own options.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u148	Mr President! I do not want to continue with Mr Savio, who I appreciate as a person and as a co-worker, but I think it was worth passing through these statements by the Finns. As for whether or not I am a lawyer, I can say that I regard myself as both a matter and an emotional politician — a matter and an emotional politician.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u152	Mr President! With regard to the development of cultural activities in the municipalities, first of all, thank Mr Gustafsson for taking into account the Sami issues, and now that the matter has come to the fore, all of us have had to deal with this. I am sorry that, as an alternate member of the Committee on Culture, I have not been present when this issue could have been discussed. Perhaps it is a place for all of us to wake up, that we really did not realize to take these Sami matters into account in this wonderful cultural complex in Finland. Perhaps we should, indeed, and the Sámi in general, be more active in ensuring that Sámi is taken into account in the diverse cultural development of our country. In other words, when it comes to the preparation of various legal matters or matters of the municipality, these matters are brought up. Indeed, we should also consider how the cultural strategies of municipalities — or what is being developed in which municipality — would take into account our Sami affairs, for more and more Sami people live in Helsinki, these municipalities of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, Oulu, Rovaniemi. All of these have very significant Sámi groups. In these there are several language training and there are language nests — to be taken as a fine piece of work as a whole to get these things out of the way. The fact that we bring these up is a great wealth for all of us, when we have such a culture, so that all of us could respect the Sámi people, so that there would not be such an image that the Sámi are oppressed. Generally speaking, this is a lack of information, and let us here try to move this lack of information forward so that people can know what this is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u153	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 26/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u154	Mr President! The Incomes Register was introduced from the beginning of this year. The core of the Incomes Information System is the Incomes Register, where the information provided is stored for transmission to the authorities designated by law. The information in the Incomes Register is otherwise confidential. The register is kept by the Incomes Register Unit established at the Tax Administration. Starting from the beginning of 2019, employers report wages and salaries by one notification to the Incomes Register, but by reporting each employee's payment transactions separately. The aim of the reform is to reduce the administrative burden on employers by simplifying the notification of pay information to the authorities. In the past, employers had to report wage data in different forms to various bodies. From the beginning of 2020, pension and benefit income will be included in the Incomes Register, which will now be included in the Act. In the first phase of the reform, just over a year ago, only the necessary provisions concerning information on wage income and other performances reported by employers were included in the law. Mr President! From the beginning of 2019, the data in the Incomes Register are used by the Tax Administration, pension institutions, the Finnish Centre for Pensions, the Social Insurance Institution and the Unemployment Insurance Fund. In 2020, the use of unemployment funds, insurance companies for accidents at work and occupational diseases, the Education Fund, municipalities, Statistics Finland, the activities of pay cover and pay support, and labour protection authorities. For example, the unemployment fund receives income data directly from the register and the applicant for unemployment benefit no longer has to submit a separate wage certificate to the unemployment fund. The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u155	Mr President! The proposed income information system and its use will clarify and simplify, at the very least in the medium term, the procedures of employers and will thus also be a tool for entrepreneurship and job creation. At the same time, it is also a tool that clarifies the taxation of both the income earner and the recipient of the benefit and makes it more transparent. Of course, much more is expected from this income register in the future, and expectations are high. It is assumed that when you get as real-time information as possible on the income received by each person, you can achieve the absolutely necessary reform, simplification and situation in which, at each stage of your life, social protection is properly measured and available, yet fair and encouraging. The Incomes Register, the Incomes Information System, has great achievements in public administration and at its best guarantees Finland a leading position also internationally.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u156	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 27/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u157	Mr President! Performing artists, other public performers and athletes, as well as programme agencies selling their performances, are currently unable to deduct the VAT included in their purchases. Thus, the tax will ultimately remain at the expense of these operators in order to undermine the operating conditions in the sectors concerned. The Government's proposal for a reform of the VAT Act, which is due to enter into force on 1 April of this year, will enable performing artists, other public performers and athletes, as well as programme agencies selling their performances, to apply for VAT on performance fees and for compensation for the sale of presentations to organisers. In this way, it will be possible to prevent the repetition of VAT in the future. In the hearing of the Finance Committee's tax section, the government's proposal has been generally commended. Mr President! The consultation expressed hopes which, due to the restrictions imposed by the EU VAT Directive, cannot be met. It was suggested that the same taxable person should be able to sell VAT to those who are in the position of the consumer and apply for VAT only on sales to taxable persons. This is not possible and, therefore, the situation sought in the submissions to be heard can only be achieved by the existence of two taxable persons, one of whom seeks VAT and the other not. The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u158	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to amend the VAT law so that performing artists, other public performers and athletes, as well as programme agencies selling their performances, are given the opportunity to apply for a taxable amount in respect of performance fees and compensation for the sale of presentations to organisers. These sales would be subject to a reduced rate of 10 %. The reform is a step in the right direction and is aimed at facilitating the situation of those who earn their bread in the creative sectors. Artists and programme agencies present on the basis of the current VAT Act do not have the possibility to apply for their business as a taxable person. They are currently unable to deduct VAT from their purchases due to the non-taxation of sales. The proposed change is therefore a good hand-out for many Finnish creative workers. Reforming the taxation of creative operators in order to guide the profits of a controlled company into personal compensation from copyright organisations would contribute to encouraging creative work and creating conditions for the growth and renewal of the creative sector. The cost estimates for the loss of tax revenue per year are in the order of 10 million, but I strongly believe that the reform will bring a great deal of economic benefits to the state, and perhaps some of the creative professionals in the card or in other sectors receiving social support will be able to get their act together and turn the recipient into a net contributor. Above all, the value of the reform is that the field of culture becomes more favourable to the practical factors. Mr President! I myself have also taken a law initiative in 2017, which considers that more can be done to boost employment and welfare in the creative sectors by investing in the incentive of creative work through taxation in the field of copyright compensation. Any action aimed at promoting people's opportunities to support themselves regardless of the sector is to be welcomed. The reforms proposed by this government are well-founded on many grounds, and it is great that more encouraging taxation is being made for entrepreneurs in the creative sectors. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u159	Mr President! It is a rare pleasure to give the government, exceptionally without reservation, the thanks for this bill, which comes to a need that benefits performing artists and promotes a creative economy. That is why the committee's report is short and unanimous. As I have already said in the referral debate, the possibility of VAT liability has been a great desire of performing artists and programme agencies. When musicians and other performers incur expenses from the necessary means of earning income, they must be able to reduce the result, and when the tax rate is consistently 10%, as for culture in general, it can be assumed that artists' livelihoods will be improved and the creative economy in general will be successful. I am also mentally preparing to praise the Government's proposal for a referral tomorrow to reduce the VAT rate for electronic publications to the same 10%, which is the VAT rate for printed publications. It is worth thanking not only for improving the conditions for domestic magazine publishers and book publishers, but also for doing so quickly. At the same time as the decision on a more liberal definition of digital VAT was reached in the EU, the government has already made a proposal to ensure that this is already done by the current government. The revenue formation of performing artists has been hard hit by digitalisation. Revenue from the sale of audio recordings has collapsed. It is therefore now possible to make a living that replaces the performance and performance activities themselves and, hopefully, exceeds the income. Its voluntary nature is equally important in this implementation. There are very many performers, and not all of them have such a large scale of activity or the associated income that VAT liability is necessary. And, on the other hand, the identity of many artists is that they do not even want to think of their own business as a business of any kind, so there must be full freedom to do so: not go into business-like activities if they do not like their own world view. The point that must have been somewhat overlooked here but which is also worth noting is that this proposal also clarifies the accounting system and also the correct reporting of the income of the performing artist, because there has now been a lack of tax, low tax rates, 24 % tax rates on various occasions, and now, Mr President, once and for all, it is a matter of commendable clarity.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u160	Mr President! Mr Harakka gave a very good speech in this regard. I, too, would just like briefly to thank and express my great satisfaction at this government proposal, which has been expected and hoped for. After all, it is not only for performing artists and other public performers but also for athletes and programme agencies selling their performances that they are able to apply for VAT in respect of these performance fees or, on the one hand, compensation for the sale of performances, and, on the other hand, when it comes precisely to 10%, I would see that this is in many ways, as has already been well mentioned, supported and expected in the previous speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u161	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 27/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u162	Mr President! This is one of the most pleasant moments of this term of government and my first parliamentary term, namely that the change in the tissue law has been an expected change for years, years and years. It is a question of allowing a person, a patient who needs the best treatment for chronic kidney failure, i.e. a kidney transplant and preferably a live donor, to do so with this change in law. In Finland until now, unlike in other Nordic countries and Europe, there has been a restriction that a living person can donate his kidney to another person only if he or she is a close relative or lives at the same address. I took this initiative in 2016 and would like to thank all the 116 MPs who signed the initiative to amend the tissue law at this stage. Since then, a lot of work has been done over the last two and a half years. There is a support group for kidney, liver and organ transplant patients, which brings together a lot of experts, functional transplant doctors, representatives of patient organisations across Finland, and a lot of work has been done there and within its group, to bring the law change into force much earlier. We have been in contact with the Ministry, and since we received these 116 signatures, it obviously meant that the proposal is moving forward, but, as we all know, all hands in the Ministry have also been restricted or closed to social welfare and health care reform, and it seemed very much to me that this bill is going to sink into the feet of the war. Internationally and media doctors have also tried to speed up the entry into force of the bill, and at last, at the beginning of this year, the government introduced this proposal and it had to be dealt with in a busy way that the proposal had to be in force as early as 1.8. As we know, in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health we have been employed for the sake of social welfare reports, and that is why the matter was delayed and delayed, but fortunately it is now in our hands. After all, there are currently some 450 people in Finland waiting for access to a kidney transplant. Last year, 240 people received a new kidney, and about 250 people each year, on both sides of that number, have had a kidney. But there is a continuing shortage of transplanted organs, and statistics also show that the need for transplants is increasing, as the number of dialysis patients is increasing and the waiting times for transplantation are already much longer. Increasing the number of kidney transplants from a living donor is the most effective way to increase the number of kidney transplants. What is significant is that the number of kidney transplants from donors living in Finland has clearly been lowest in the Nordic countries. In Iceland, for example, where 100% of kidney transplants are made from live donors, in Denmark 41%, in Sweden 32% and in Norway 20% of kidney transplants are made from live donors, in Finland only 8 percent have been. We have an important source of information, a kidney record that records these events, and that is where this harsh information can be found. A transplant from a living donor is the best treatment. A kidney transplanter receives a healthy kidney from a living donor, and surgery can be performed at a scheduled time. It avoids a long and uncertain waiting period, the graft usually starts to work immediately, and its forecast is better. Transplantation from a living donor is not only the best treatment, but also a form of care that saves society’s money. For example, kidney transplants have already saved more than EUR 1 billion in society’s assets compared to the cost of dialysis. After all, more than 10,000 transplants have been carried out in Finland. They started with kidney transplants in 1964, and the kidney from the longest living donor has been working for 49 years. For this single patient, nearly EUR 2 million has been saved for society. After a year, a patient with a transplanted kidney will be less expensive than 40,000 euros, which means that a kidney transplant saves 40,000 euros a year compared to dialysis. The amendment also allows Nordic cooperation with live donors and also offers more opportunities for patients who find it difficult to find suitable transplants by other means. Now more and more of them can also have their kidneys transplanted before they start dialysis. This bill, supported and signed by 116 MPs, is included in the proposal now submitted to the government. But in addition to that, the government has also included some studies on the donor or related basic studies and regulations, and some clarifications are also made in the organ donation register. In addition to the unanimous vote on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, one statement is proposed. This statement specifically concerns the need for a comprehensive reform, however, of the law on the medical use of human organs, tissues and cells. Experts in this particular field, specialist doctors, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u163	Mr President! I myself was in the process of signing Mr Tanus's bill on this issue, and I would like to thank warmly all those who have contributed to the progress of this law. I'm really glad we're at this point. This law will facilitate the situation of many people waiting for a kidney transplant, when the donor may in future be a relative or a relative if they are not suitable for donors. I personally know two people waiting for a kidney transplant at the moment, and this law gives hope to their situation in life. As a result of this legislative amendment, it is estimated that donations will increase by about 30 years. It's a big thing for these new kidneys. It's gonna change their lives forever. Even now there are more than 400 patients in the queue, and some of them will never reach a new kidney. Mr President! Since, as medicine develops, there are also many new and new ethical issues related to organ donation, including ensuring that donors act voluntarily and without any pressure at all, the committee's proposal for a comprehensive reform of the law on the medical use of human organs, tissues and cells is also very welcome. Finally, Mr President, Finland must play an active role worldwide in bringing an end to inhumane and unethical organ trafficking. The donation of organs shall in no case involve the acquisition or provision of an economic advantage.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u164	Mr President! A few years ago, when the European Parliament dealt with the EU directive on organ donation, I was the negotiator of my group and indeed had to look at the darker aspect of organ transplantation, of which Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen mentioned. This government proposal is certainly justified, and I believe that we in Finland can count on the fact that transplants in Finnish hospitals do not run the risk of a questionable acquisition of the organ. Indeed, the positive nature of this reform of the law is specifically linked to the ability to ensure voluntary extradition. Internationally, the situation is darker: Even throughout the 21st century, perhaps even as early as the 1990s, there has been news that poor people in different countries have been pressured to sell their kidneys, which is, of course, only a temporary relief to these organ vendors of their poverty. This is cruel and it is also a bad thing for the recipients of these bodies, because the organs thus acquired are not necessarily safe. There is no perfect way to guarantee that the donor does not have, for example, some diseases that would then be passed through such a transplant to the recipient. But the worst reality of all that has to do with the international issue of organ transplantation is that people are even being killed for the sake of the organs. Quite recently, last December, such an independent international tribunal, led by Sir Geoffrey Nice, who has previously led the prosecution of Slobodan Milošević in Yugoslavia, has completed an investigation into the allegations that prisoners of conscience are being robbed in China, and this Tribunal has stated that there is evidence that this is actually happening. I hope that in addition to ensuring that organ transplantation is safe for both the donor and the recipient here in Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-08-ps-137.u165	Mr President! Mr Hassi and Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen have already brought an important point of view to this international horror, this criminal activity in relation to organ transplants, and I entirely agree, and I have also spoken about the need to work internationally to promote the reduction or cessation of such criminal activity, because it is not for the benefit of the organ recipient or its donor in any way. As a follow-up to my first speech, I wanted to ask for the floor specifically to underline that the donation of the kidney must always be based only on a voluntary basis, only and only on a voluntary basis, and must not involve any pressure, no pressure or any economic interest whatsoever. This is also strongly written in our law, and this has also been discussed with transplant operators, doctors, experts and patient organisations. It must be said that in Finland it is not only registered but also transparent and ethically sustainable for all criticism and evaluation, so that, fortunately in Finland, such criminal activity or the exploitation of organ transplant activities is not possible. So many actors and so many evaluations, different people and impartial ones, are involved in this process, and they are all recorded in registers. But as I said, every year, while waiting for a kidney transplant, a few patients died, and now, let me say, for this year’s Christmas present, it did not quite make it, but right at the beginning of the year, this tissue law, which has been waiting for many years, is at hand. As I said, it's the best treatment for a patient, specifically a kidney from a living donor. It will restore life, not only to restore life, but to restore the full ability of most people to work and function. And from the point of view of society, it is also a source of great savings, so in that sense I can say, as I have said many times, that I believe that this is an example of an excellent, good social law. It is possible for everyone, it is the best form of treatment, restores the ability to work and function, to many people in life, but at the same time also brings great savings. In other words, I would also like to thank the Ministry and this Parliament for finally making this happen.
