ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 20/2019 vp. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 18 December 2019. Let us move on to the sectional vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u2	Section 24, Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u3	Timo Heinonen's proposal 3 and Ville Vähämäki's proposal 4 relate to the same appropriation, so the vote will take place first on Ville Vähämäki's proposal 4 against Timo Heinonen's proposal 3 and then against the report that has been won.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u4	Let's move on to section 26, the Ministry of the Interior's administrative branch.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u5	The next item is the administrative sector of Section 27, the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u6	Jukka Kopra's proposal 3 and Ville Vähämäki's proposal 4 and Timo Heinonen's proposal 5 relate to the same appropriation. The vote will take place first on Mr Heinonen's proposal 5 against Mr Kopra and Mr Vähämäki's proposals 3 and 4 with the same content and then against the report that has been won.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u7	Let us turn to Section 28, which is the administrative branch of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u8	The next item is Section 31, which is the administrative branch of the Ministry of Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u9	Mrs Mykkänen's proposal 89, Mr Heinonen's proposal 90 and Mrs Laiho's proposal 91 are of the same content, so they will be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u10	Antero Laukkanen's proposal 98 and Timo Heinonen's proposal 99 relate to the same appropriation, so the vote will take place on Timo Heinonen's proposal 99 against Antero Laukkanen's proposal 98 and against the subsequent report.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u11	Let us move on to Section 32, which is the administrative branch of the Ministry of Labour and Life.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u12	Sari Essayah’s proposal 16 and Timo Heinonen’s proposal 17 relate to the same appropriation, so the vote will take place first on Timo Heinonen’s proposal 17 against Sari Essayah’s proposal 16 and then against the report that has been won.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u13	Let us turn to Section 33, the administrative branch of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u14	Timo Heinonen's proposal 40 and Sari Tanus' proposal 41 are of the same content, so they will be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u15	The previous sections will no longer be labelled afterwards.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u16	The case shall be suspended. The plenary session will be adjourned and resumed at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u17	Presentation of Section 30 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. 45 minutes will be reserved for the general discussion at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u18	Mr President! In total, approximately EUR 2.7 billion is proposed for the administrative sector, which is approximately EUR 68 million more than in the 2019 budget. The committee stresses that the administrative sector ensures security of supply in Finland. [Second Vice-President JuhoEerola : Sorry, honourable MemberEestilä. - I'm going to ask you to calm down. If you have anything else to discuss, please step outside the doors. — Mr Eestilä. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u21	Mr President! Thank you to the President of the Section for Agriculture, Mr Estilä for his excellent speech and for his good work, and to the whole section and committee for the report that has been produced. A more competitive agriculture and food economy and the sustainable use of natural resources, two priorities that are very strongly reflected in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry’s 2020 budget and operational priorities. As the committee stresses in its report, agriculture and forestry contribute to ensuring the security of supply in Finland. Domestic food production provides the basis for a sustainable food system, and the sustainable use of forests is the cornerstone of our economy. I also fully agree with the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the important role that agriculture and forestry play in solving climate issues. Risk management and investments in soil growth, carbon sequestration and water management are essential. The committee also notes that the increase in demand for sustainable food is a big opportunity for Finland. The conditions must therefore be met by increasing demand in the future. Mr President! Significant efforts have been made to ensure the profitability of agriculture and investment in the budget for next year. Investments in farms will be secured with the additional capital of Makera, the Development Fund, totalling EUR 90,3 million. Reindeer farming will cost EUR 1 million, and the additional capital of the Government Programme will amount to EUR 31 million next year. Investment grants will be used to launch projects that create jobs and to replace obsolete capacity, improve the welfare of animals and farmers, promote the environment, increase renewable energy and its production and improve competitiveness. In terms of the conservation of agricultural production, the compensatory allowance for natural handicaps is very important, as the compensatory allowance for natural handicaps enables cultivation under northern conditions. That is why the government is filling a gap in compensatory allowances of EUR 42 million. Supportable agriculture preserves the vitality of farms and sustains employment in rural areas and domestic food production. We secure agri-environmental measures and target subsidies for active activities. The deficit of EUR 88 million in agri-environmental compensation will also be offset next year in accordance with the Government Programme. We support environmentally and climate-friendly food production and increase the share of domestic organic products in food production. The financing of new organic commitments in 2020 will be secured. To this end, EUR 5 million will be allocated to that budget for next year. Similarly, in order to strengthen competitiveness, we are investing in food exports. President! In line with the Government Programme’s priorities, the sustainable use of natural resources and the bioeconomy will be promoted. The emphasis on biodiversity and climate is reflected in the allocation for natural resource sectors. It provides the basis for a competitive, renewable natural resource-based business, reconciles the needs of resource use and conservation, and creates well-being through the recreational use of nature across the country. For example, a significant contribution of EUR 20 million will be made to climate policy in the land use sector, which will strengthen carbon sinks and reduce emissions from the land use sector. This will also finance measures to strengthen carbon sinks, such as research into carbon sinks in fields and the promotion of forest health and growth. Kemera funding for sustainable forestry and its part for private forest owners will be important, and EUR 56 million will be available next year. I encourage all forest owners to take care of the payments of the trout and the repair debts of the forest roads. As part of the protection of biodiversity, the budget directs support for the creation of wetlands important to migratory fish recovery projects and waterbirds and the fight against alien species. A total of EUR 6 million will be used to support by-pass solutions, the dismantling of migration barriers and the rehabilitation of breeding areas. The committee has considered this very necessary and has also increased the appropriations for this item, and thank you for that. So next year, more funds have been earmarked for this than ever before. The budget also increases Metso's funding for the voluntary forest protection programme to strengthen forest biodiversity. Through the administrative sector of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the funds are directed towards natural management projects and temporary protection of economic forests. Metsähallitus's debt to repair is also reduced, more than EUR 1 million will be allocated to the routes in the hiking areas, and in order to get more domestic fish on the plate, fisheries will be supported in a diverse way in the budget. Mr President! To this end, I would like to mention that, like the committee, I am also very pleased that the 4H funding for youth entrepreneurship in rural areas has once again been secured by Parliament and by the committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u22	I see there's a desire to continue the debate. It's okay with me.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u23	Mr President! I am delighted, Mr President, that the importance of our forests for the Finnish economy is gradually being understood. Of course, I think agriculture is more important because three times a day, on average, we get hungry. I would like to thank the Minister very much for bravely defending the right of Finnish agriculture to live and produce clean food in this country and, above all, so that farming based on family farming is doing well, because without farms we do not have domestic food production. Here comes the deep core of this public health when we eat good, clean food. The second point is the use of forests. I am very concerned about the fact that we are going towards something that is always trying to prevent the use of forests by all means. The LULUCF has put a strain on whether or not we are allowed to cut down forests. Secondly, there is an ever-increasing desire for protected areas, but then the second sentence calls for more forests to be cut off as well. To resolve this contradiction, we must work together, and I hope that reason will be found in this country, because we ourselves must take care of this northern, small country here on the corner of Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u24	Now the first debatable shift went by mistake to the chairman of the wrong committee. Good speech, though.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u25	Mr President! We have heard disturbing news this year globally. Again in Australia, there is a burning of Finland's forest in Brazil, Russia has burned the same amount of forest as the whole area of Finland in the last few years. The more climate change progresses, the more the world’s grain fences are dwindling. For this very reason too, it is now crucial to ensure our own security of supply, Finnish food production, and the more we eat Finnish food, the less Brazilian forests need to be deliberately burned. That is why I am grateful to the section president and to the Minister for the work that has been done to safeguard Finnish food production, to support compensations and to safeguard investments and to the work that has been done for Finnish forestry. With Kemera's help, the forests will be in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u26	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Rest and Eestilä, for a good presentation. The entrepreneurial income of agriculture has fallen steadily throughout the 2000s. At the same time, the negotiating position of producers has deteriorated in proportion to the large retail chains. The store's gonna take that bear part. The primary producer gets less and less of the product. A reduction in income of up to 40% is a fact of life in recent years. The EU's financial framework for next year will cut subsidies. We have a common agricultural policy with the EU, whether we like it or not. Producers are really concerned about the future, and so should the government and all of us consumers. We are used to it and we also take it for granted that we can buy salmonella-free, antibiotic-free, fresh Finnish food that takes animal welfare into account. We do not operate on pig's tails and chickens' beaks, but in many places in the EU we do this:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u27	. Mr President! This future EU financial framework period is very important for Finland's agriculture. I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture whether Finland has made sufficient and timely efforts to make these rules of the common agricultural policy more environmental and local food-based, which would naturally support the agriculture of extremes in Finland compared to the large production figures in Central Europe. In my view, it has been too careful not to dare to reform, but to stick to the old models that have hitherto secured Finland's slice of the common agricultural budget. But if we look even a little further into the future, that would mean adopting these ecological, carbon-saving production methods, and also in the production structure, striving to spend close to here and in every way to make sustainable agriculture.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u28	Mr President! I'd like to ask the Minister the same thing. You have been busy because Finland has been a presidency of the EU and you have played a key role in these negotiations on agriculture, and I am sure you have also played a key role in the negotiations on the financial framework. What does it look like to you now that the Commission has proposed quite drastic cuts to this particular rural development, which, in terms of Finland's net supply, has been the most important part of this aid package? Finland presented a certain figure, I think it was 1.07 and the Commission and Parliament disagreed slightly. What do you think is going to happen, and how much will this overall level of funding have to do with how much we are going to be coated up in rural development in particular? What chance do we have at national level to catch up with the fall that is coming through the EU to these subsidies? Could you open this up a little bit? What does it look like in your eyes? Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for his cooperation. You've had a busy year. It seems to make things a little easier now, and I hope that both the section and the committee and the minister will continue to work well together on matters of substance. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u29	Mr President! First of all, I would like to draw attention to today's decision by Koho that Finnpulp's plant in Kuopio was not allowed because it would soil too much more Kallavesi. This raises an interesting idea as to whether new forest industry factories can be set up in Finland, reducing water emissions from agriculture and forestry. Recent data show that water discharges from forest management have been higher than previous estimates. Mr President! I am delighted by the number of colleagues who have raised climate change and climate issues, and I think it is very important that the budget also includes important funds for improving the climate impact of agriculture and reducing emissions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u30	Mr President! After the Green Deal of the EU Commission, forest operators estimated that the economic use of forests in the EU's new climate and environmental balance would be overshadowed by diversity objectives. In the new LULUCF calculation, the calculated felling accumulation of Finnish forests now falls from 83 million to approximately 77 million cubic metres. As early as last year, there were heavy criticisms of 78 million cubic metres of felling, even though they had not been subjected to any restrictions. The risk is that the same call will be repeated in the future based on these new LULUCF figures. Minister, I think it is important that both Finland and the EU bear in mind that there is no good climate policy without a healthy economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u33	Mr President! It is very good to continue with this. In fact, I would like to ask Mrs Hassi, the chairman of the large committee, when you now rejoiced over this decision by Kuopio, which, however, took 3400 jobs per year to understand where there is such an example in the world, a country where the standard of living and the economy of our citizens are not in order, but environmental issues have been handled well? I'd love to hear one, because it looks like you're taking Finland there. I would also like to ask Mr Levä what he looks like at EU level, and I thank him for his good work over the year. It is very important to us that we secure the funding of that second pillar, and it is also very important for the environment — because of course we must be able to do everything we can — but also for the profitability of Finnish agriculture. I know you have done a lot of work on this. What's it look like right now?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u34	Let Mr Hassin respond to this, but then we will not go further into debating, but we will try to ensure that as many people as possible get a turn.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u35	Mr President! Just now I did not comment at all on whether Koho's decision on this Finnpulp project in Kuopio is good or bad. All I said was that the reason for that decision is the overall impact on the Kallavesi water system, and I said that we currently have the greatest water emissions from diffuse pollution, agriculture and forestry. I think it is important to think about how we can also reduce diffuse loads more effectively than we have done so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u36	Mr President! Minister Leppä spoke about fisheries. My question is this: For a long time, the meridian has been talking about the entire coastal region. In 19 the number of pairs of cormorants was 2,5700, when the number of nesting birds was 51,400. In view of the fact that one nest produces just over two chicks, and yet the young unwashed birds, there were over 120,000 birds in the late summer along the coast. The oversized cormorants cause serious harm to fish stocks, insular nature, residents, entrepreneurs, recreational fishing and so on. A special case is the port of Rauma and adjacent cormorzoconone. There, the expansion of the port is under threat because of the cormorants. There is no exception to existing legislation for construction. Does the government intend to promote the limitation of the herd of cormorants, either by hunting or on a derogation basis, and by moving away from Directive II?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u37	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister and the Government for these increases in agriculture. We know these challenges of profitability in agriculture, they are real and it is therefore important to look at the livelihoods of farmers in the future. But I would like to raise one point, the increase in local food and its use. The Government Programme also stresses the importance of increasing the use of fish, and now we have a lot of so-called bag salmon from Norway. How does the Minister see this possibility that fish farming activities in Finland could also increase fish farming and thus also use it, because it can be seen, however, that this wild fish is not available enough?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u38	Mr President! After all, the farmer wants two things, land faith and faith in the future, and in order for this believer to exist in the heart and in doing so there must be profitable production that simply that good work can be done. That is why I am very pleased that, first of all, these environmental compensations and compensatory payments have been made in this budget, but also that we look to the future and capitalise on Makera, the Agricultural Development Fund, because the agricultural sector that invests is doing well. It is a question of security of supply for us, it is a question of profitability, it is an issue of animal welfare and it is a question of the future for us as a whole. So I ask the Minister: how do you see the future in our agriculture now? You've done a good job of it. We have a lot to do on the market to get the price of the product right, but what is the importance of investment?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u39	Mr President! Congratulations to Minister Levä for continuing in this important task. You have experience and continuity right now, when these situations are as difficult as we are, and when our government base became such a red - green one, these certain pressures are bound to increase dramatically. Powers for that fight for agriculture and forestry and Finnish industry. I would like to ask briefly about this current issue, i.e. the Kuopio project in relation to the Äänekoski project. About six years ago, the Äänekoski factory received permits, an environmental permit, and it went very well, and there are no problems in Central Finland in this respect. Have you now compared or are you going to compare what kind of factors finally solved the fact that all the permits came and went in Äänekoski, but in Kuopio this struck a knockout like this, which is truly regrettable? I am not criticising the Supreme Administrative Court, but I am concerned about this anyway.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u40	Mr President! Hopefully, the Government will not proceed with the Hassi policies and will be making Finland a large outdoor museum. That's what it sounds like. But this part of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry itself. I must admit that the Rinte and Marin government programme contains many good guidelines on agriculture and forestry. The aim must be to secure the conditions for agriculture and rural livelihoods. The situation is acute in that unjustified claims about the climate impacts of agriculture and forestry, for example, are widespread in Finland. They're moving in this room, too. The Coalition Party will closely monitor whether the Government implements its own programme in this respect. These negotiations on the EU's financial framework have already come up, and they are a question of fate for us. I would also make sure that there is an answer. Let's not paint any nasty sights.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u41	Mr President! I saw Christmas and maybe this time of night food is in the minds of many. Food with its meat, fish and vegetables is very important to us. We must ensure security of supply and the future of Finnish food producers and the possibilities for action and, as has already been said in many speeches, the profitability of the farms. Just as Mr Savola said here that the farmer and the producer want it to be profitable, so it is very important. Then, in order for such an ordinary consumer to be able to make choices, we have a very wide range of labelling in products. There are different Finnish flags if some kind of ticket does not actually tell you that you can choose it as a consumer so that you are sure to buy it. I would ask the Minister: how can we make these entries in support of the purchase decision so that we know for sure that we are buying Finnish if that is what we want?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u42	Mr President! It is good to continue from this exactly where we got it, i.e. ham to lamb, New Zealand, and hence to Finnish flag. I have taken a measure initiative in which I would like the government to take action together with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, that under the Finnish flag you cannot sell foreign meat. We must have a state of will that the consumer cannot be fooled. That is why I ask the Minister: what action are you going to take? We certainly agree on this point that food cannot be made Finnish or nationalised in such a way as to mislead the consumer. Secondly, I would like to ask the Minister quickly: how is the process of afforestation of under-utilised fields, which is part of the Government Programme, progressing?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u43	Värderade Talman! Lantbruksbudgeten ser lovande ut, och vi får vara tacksamma att LFA-stödet och milötödet köyjas. Också det att vi kan ingå nya avtal när det gäller ecologyk produktion är viktigt.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u44	Mr President! I would have asked that although the Minister praised the Finnish Animal Welfare Act, the Animal Welfare Act has now been prepared as the Isaac Church. Unfortunately, it was surrounded last season by that social reform and it fell. You told me it might be coming next year. I mean, seriously. What's taking so long? Yes, we have serious problems with animal welfare, especially with controls and bans on animals, and animals need better legislation. The ban on keeping animals is one such thing, which should in particular be extended and monitored more effectively. Then I would have asked what this statement in the EU is about this animal welfare, because, of course, the mere statement does not deal with matters. Is there something concrete coming from there? There are very bad stories about the treatment of animals from European countries. Then I would have been the last one to suggest — I proposed this last year and this would cost nothing — that if we were to announce that the Finnish horse was a holiday horse for Finland’s independence.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u45	Mr President! Mr Meri made a good speech. The Finnish Food Agency’s animal welfare monitoring report was published in the autumn and has been very harsh to read. After all, according to the report, the number of animal welfare visits related to the mistreatment of pet animals has increased and the mistreatment of animals has already worsened. The indifference of animals indicates that we clearly have a major attitude problem in our country. The animal is too often seen as a mere commodity and an easily discarded disposable item. It is a good thing that the post of Animal Protection Ombudsman is reinstated and that money is earmarked for it in the budget. Similarly, support will be given to the introduction of alternative methods to animal testing and increased state aid for the development of biosecurity and animal health monitoring of farms. During Question Time, I too heard that the Minister would have said that the reform of the Animal Protection Act would be on the way back in the spring. Let me be more specific: is that right? I would also like to ask: is the new government, for example, prepared to transfer fur farming once and for all to history and to toughen up the judgments on animal welfare offences?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u46	Mr President! At first we must wonder about this will of the Assembly, somehow, to abandon the Water Framework Directive. It is precisely the legislation which is intended to improve the whole of the EU, or, in fact, the intention is not to weaken the status of water bodies in the EU, in the very economic area in which we are competing with industry. This is binding legislation in that area. Well, fortunately, the government wants to act specifically on behalf of the good ecological status of the waters and, among other things, to restore migratory fish and also protect aquatic nature. I'd like to ask you about the food. Food-related information has increased much from the point of view of animal welfare as well as from the point of view of environmental and climate impacts, and people want to make increasingly sustainable choices. I believe that there may even be a greater need for Finnish food abroad as climate change progresses, and we should also keep our agriculture environmentally competitive in that sense. I'd like to ask the Minister, how do you see it?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u47	Mr President! The budget report is excellent, but the market is still not working properly. According to the decision of the Committee on Trade in the Fresh Food Chain, one unnamed retail chain cancels vegetable orders, practically cucumbers, tomatoes and salads, at less than 30 days' notice. This appears to be due to the so-called forced division of the central movement. The Board recommends that trade should take greater account of the weaker party. The Board considers that the purchase should not cancel the order at a notice of less than 30 days. The EU Good Trade Directive does not allow this either, but it has not yet been brought into force in Finland. I ask the Minister what measures will be taken?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u48	Mr President! The chairman of the committee raised this alarming global situation with regard to climate change. After all, climate change seems twofold when it comes to the food system. So, on the one hand, it affects our production conditions, but it also affects food consumption because it sets them in frame that what is a sustainable diet. The role of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is to create this sustainable food system. A sustainable food system is one that takes into account both animal rights, environmental issues, both the well-being of people and the livelihood of producers and food security. And these objectives can be reconciled. After all, we already have the UN and the IPCC and all the international bodies calling for the food system to change. The Government Programme has also undertaken to influence this aspect of consumption. I would like to ask the Minister: how are these objectives now going to proceed, namely precisely these diets, in line with nutrition recommendations and to be sustainable?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u49	Let us take Mr Pylös and then let the Minister answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u50	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Government for this capitalisation of the Agricultural Development Fund and for filling the shortfalls in natural and environmental compensation. It is an extremely important message for these, for us practical farmers, that the government wants to be long-term in supporting and supporting agricultural production. The committee has added more money to this research, among other things, to the peatland research of the Ruukin Research Centre. This is an extremely important message that, through research, we want to find out what the emission load of peatland is really before decisions are taken on what to do with it. It's the right way to go when you're first examined and then you're just lost. However, agriculture and forestry are the solution to this climate change in any case. Then, Mr President. Two questions to the Minister. Firstly, in relation to biogas: what opportunities does the biogas programme provide for farm profitability through the circular economy? And then the more important question of the future: what do you want to say to the young producer who is considering holding the farm?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u51	Now, Minister Leppä. Five minutes was hoped for.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u52	Mr President! Thank you for the excellent speeches and also for the good questions and lunches, both here and here. I'll start with the investigation. As the committee has also pointed out in its report, research plays a crucial role in how our competitiveness is maintained, how we are able to take climate and environmental measures into account and how we are able to take better account of animal welfare. At the same time, it also answers the question of what many of you said: how can we distinguish Finnish production from food imported here? That is why we need more researched information. And the problem we have is that we know much more about what is happening on earth than about what is happening underground. This is crucial to the debatation that is taking place from the point of view of coal, which is also taking place in our society. That is why there must be more money for this, and there has also been more money for it. Sustainable use of forests and related new products, new investments are absolutely essential to us both. We have different calculations, we have LULUCF calculations and there are other comparison calculations that we have made here. Well LULUCF is based on the LULUCF Regulation, which requires those calculations to be made, and when we look at the reference levels and compare them to Sweden, for example, we have about the same forest, but the reference level is quite different. This is why LULUCF does not tell us the overall sustainability with nearly the degree of accuracy it needs to tell us to get a picture of what our forests are in for sustainable logging and use. Still, last year we had record fellings and forests grew by 30 million cubic metres more than they were beaten up, were used. This is the line, and this year that utilisation rate is likely to be quite much lower than last year. So we're strong. Well, then, these new investments in the forest industry. It is essential for us to have new investments — both from an environmental point of view, from the point of view of water bodies, from the point of view of the climate and from the point of view of obtaining new products. These new ones are considerably more resource efficient than those currently in existence, and I am sure that these investments will be seen in Finland. Now we have this stage here, which Finnpulp we have learned publicly today, but surely these investments will come. They are essential, or otherwise we will certainly lose competitiveness and also fail to have positive environmental effects. Many people then asked about this MFF situation, namely what will be the financing of agriculture and rural development in the new programming period. Finland has pushed for this line, as has been pointed out here, that the funding potential for agriculture and rural development is the same as in this current programming period. That's a good goal. That is why I do not understand the speeches that it is said that the financing of agriculture and rural development is somewhat out of date when they are called upon to take new action from a climate and environmental point of view, from the point of view of sustainability. They are not old-fashioned, they are new types of action. It cannot be that something new is required and at the same time it is said that less is paid. This cannot be the case. That is why Finland has strongly advocated this line in the EU as well, and that is why the entry in the Government Programme is there. Every word is relevant to what is in the government programme, including in this respect. Let us hope that this will happen and that there will then be an adequate financial pool. Well then, the green deal, that is, the new green architecture that the new Commission has now brought to light in the EU. Finland considers it good, but it is also realistic and based on facts and is based on science. We want the forestry strategy to be a big part of it, an independent part of the green deal, and then it will do the truth and in a fair way it will also touch the coniferous forest zone, that is quite clear. And as far as the financing of Pillar II is concerned, it is indeed the most important thing in terms of our net recovery. For us, the food market is not working as it should at the moment. As has been said here, agriculture has had this poor profitability situation for a long time, and it shows that the blame lies within the system. It is not in any single action; it is the reason within the system. And they want to get involved. That is why there is a UTP directive, that is to say, a directive on the definition of these commercial practices. And it was also asked what the government is going to do in this regard. We are tightening up the labelling of the origin of foodstuffs. Last Monday they were tightened up in that EU Council of Ministers. From the beginning of next year, we will put in place a reform of the Food Markets Act, which will include those requirements of the UTP Directive. [The President knocks ] And fish: President, if I may say so again,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u53	Thank you, too, Minister Leppä. The debate and the discussion on this point will now be suspended and resumed at a later date in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u54	The general debate on section 30, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u55	Mr President! In the vast majority of the Member States of the European Union, dog registration is mandatory. Setting up a register of dogs and cats and making the identification of dogs and cats compulsory are ways of promoting the health and well-being of dogs and cats and of preventing animal neglect, illegal importation and puppy production. The statutory identification mark and the single register provide authorities with more effective tools to address problems arising from the puppy factory and the legal and illegal trafficking of animals across borders. In addition to the serious neglect of animal welfare, this is a major organised crime that generates considerable profits through its activities. The programme of the Rinne and now the Marin government states that ‘The regulation of trade in animals is being developed, particularly in relation to the trade in animals on the network, and whether or not the identification and registration The budget has earmarked 775,000 for this, but in practice it is inadequate because it also includes the fight against animal diseases, information, training and preparedness for it. That is why I made a budget initiative to set up a register of cats and dogs, but unfortunately it did not go through this Chamber when the government opposed it. It would also be important to have the Animal Welfare Act in Parliament. It was quite a long time in the previous regime, but then it fell, or there was no time to bring it here when the government fell. The state of animal welfare in Finland is, of course, at a relatively good level internationally, but we still have a lot of work to do. For example, the controls on animal welfare offences and the penalties resulting therefrom are lagging behind and the penalties are too low. So is fur farming, it is also a business, but in modern times there is no need for it, because we have well-dressed clothes for that purpose. In other words, it would also be desirable to give up fur farming in a certain period of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u56	Mr President! I will take this opportunity when I did not have time to say in my previous speech that I thank the Committee on Legal Affairs for its good cooperation and Mr Henriksson and wish everyone a merry Christmas. But on this subject of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry: That is where I asked Mr Lepä questions, but I did not quite get the answers to these questions when the minister had a lot to answer. One thing, of course, was the Animal Welfare Act. That is where Mr Laiho has just made a good speech, which I can fully agree with. I asked the Minister when that animal welfare law would come in. Yes, it has been done for quite a long time. Personally, I am very concerned that the bans on keeping animals are rather short and are largely under control. Sometimes you read things about publicity that take dogs away from you, for example, when you have had a lot of them, and then you get to keep one or two. If man is unfit to keep animals, why, then, are there still a few animals left so to speak as a guinea pig? However, the animal feels pain and suffering, as does man. I have sometimes suggested this idea of animal welfare, which could now go to the Ministry's ears, that there should be a so-called negative proof that there is no ban on animals when you go out and buy an animal. This would be a very easy procedure. The buyer could get one, and I wish it could be a free grip, so that the seller could see that the person is not banned from keeping animals. Many times I have wondered, when I have bought dogs and horses myself, that no one has ever asked me that I am not banned from keeping animals. In that sense, it's quite strange that it still exists somewhere, but it doesn't show up that way. Then I did not really get a response from the Minister on what was this EU resolution on animal welfare, whether this is a record or whether it will become something concrete in the EU. There are countries where there is a great deal of animal abuse and there is little interference, a wide range of cultures and traditions, and I am surprised that there can be this type of activity in the EU countries, as we have read, for example, in Italian hunting dogs. I wonder how this is possible in the EU, and I did not get any response either. Last but not least, as a horse person and an independent person, I have been remembering the Finnish horse in recent days, its valuable help in Finnish wars and reconstruction. That is where I suggested to Minister Lepä, which I suggested last year, that a Finnish horse should be declared a celebrated animal of our independence. I think it would be a great gesture. The Finnish horse would deserve that, and I hope that by next year at the latest, if we do not have time for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u57	Mr President! Security of supply, clean food, running chains, long-term funding. One of the key points is how to keep Finnish agriculture on a sustainable footing. Finnish food and food production must be secured under all circumstances. This is a national choice. The kind of speech that constantly calls into question subsidies for agriculture is irresponsible. Finnish agriculture and Finnish food are the choice of Finns. Finnish food is the best food in the world and its production conditions must be secured. This does not eliminate the fact that the development of agriculture is one of our most important tasks. But even if we put all the money available for development and research, but at the same time the farmers, the farmers, are spirited, there will soon be no one to accept all the fine research and development. It is now up to us to determine the conditions for the farmer to live. This draft budget introduces more elements, more support, but it also contains peculiarities, some of which I would like to raise in a few moments' time. The farmer has renewed his activities to such an extent that the belt holes have ceased a long time ago. The farmer develops himself to death. Improving the farmer’s livelihood is our common concern and must be accompanied by practices that are stable and hopeful, so that new generations experience cultivation as a meaningful livelihood. Mr President! When I read this report from the committee, it is surprising that the things that we improved here last season and added money to, then this government proposal had been cut again, and now the committee is adding the same benefits to it. I can only imagine what the farmer, the farmer, is thinking and thinking about when the funding is such a flimsy one, that each time the committee separately adds some of the money that was added and removed the previous time. This is what happens in many places here. My view is that this is not on a sustainable footing, and yes, ladies and gentlemen, I am looking that way. I understand that this is a special heart issue for you, as is the case for us Christian Democrats, the fundamental values are one of the fundamental values for which we are working very hard here, and I think that the survival of farmers and farmers, and not just survival, but a reasonable livelihood, is a matter of honour for you. I do not want to question it in a certain way here, but now that this is the second government in which you are involved, could it be reasonable to think that, in eight years, you representatives of the centre, in particular, will be responsible for all of us other Members of Parliament, so that the Finnish agricultural entrepreneur will then receive 2024 at the latest for his reasonable income? President! I believe that Finns are increasingly going to choose Finnish food when you go to that store, increasingly. It is a good choice, it is a healthy choice, but I do feel that it is time for us to make sure that the entrepreneur also earns a living from his own work — not just some sort of livelihood but a good livelihood. I wish all farmers a merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u58	Mr President! Finland joined the European Union 25 years ago, and agriculture was the most difficult part of the negotiations in that accession process. At the time, a national aid package was drawn up, which unfortunately was quickly scrapped, so it did not start to have any effect at all. So then the decline in agriculture began. During the seven-year period of negotiations on the financial framework in Brussels, Finland has lost aid in every period. They have been directly cut or moved from basic agriculture to rural development, which means that farmers' income has always been cut in pieces. In the course of these 25 years, there have also been a number of events in the middle of the period, including the enlargement of the Union in the early 2000s in ten Member States from Eastern Central Europe, which became strong or is said to be of good quality agricultural countries. After socialism, of course, they were in ruins, but they went on to grow anyway and came to the market with their products. They then started to receive growing subsidies, and in 2014 the subsidies were full. That same point, the year 2014, also hit Finland with the abolition of milk quotas under the EU regulation, and this contributed to a further decline in agricultural profitability. The situation has now been rather difficult in a few years because of the bad harvests. Well, the last year, that is, this year, has been reasonable or even good, but the profitability of farming, as the committee report says, and we heard there in the agricultural section, is weak. At the moment, the look is moving forward. After next year, the new financial framework period will begin, and on the other hand, the CAP reform will begin, and both will be extremely important and perhaps even fatal for Finnish agriculture. The CAP reform should bring about a reform of the regulations so that bureaucracy is reduced and the mental and physical burden on farmers is reduced, but that has never been achieved before, and unfortunately it may not be possible to do so now. Minister Leppä was not in a position to assess the situation in this regard at this time, but I would urge that efforts be made to draw up regulations taking into account the needs of the Finnish farmer.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u61	Mr President! As a long-term 4H gardener and as a short-term 4H advisor, I find it very warm and heart-warming that, after an addition from the Committee on Finance, this valuable work organisation will receive EUR 150,000 more than last year. 4H activities prevent the marginalisation of young people across the country. It creates a belief in the future, especially for children and young people in rural areas, and it is a great summer employer for young people. A total of EUR 4 and a half million was paid to young people through the organisation last year. 4H promotes wholesome leisure activities throughout Finland, both on land and in cities. Children and young people need good hobbies. Hobbies bring young people well-being. In fact, the government plans at least one good hobby for each child and young person in connection with school day in accordance with the Icelandic model. I hope that one implementer could also be a 4H organisation with values such as goodness, well-being, reflection and training. The 4H organisation also strongly supports entrepreneurship among young people. This is very important, because in this country we need an entrepreneurial attitude and entrepreneurial skills, creativity, problem-solving capacity, cooperation and economic thinking. Young people get the necessary work experience and skills for working life in 4H companies. Some of these young people become entrepreneurs who in time employ their neighbors and family members. Many new jobs are created in just such small businesses. The net sales of 4H entrepreneurs totalled EUR 1.5 million last year. The work also had a large employment impact. I am also pleased that the Youth Entrepreneurship programme will receive EUR 250,000 next year on this same subject. That too is a significant investment in children and young people. In time, I was allowed to bring the Youth Entrepreneurship programme to folk high schools. Thus the good effects of the programme: Young people got excited, started a business for a year and ran it for a year. They learn future skills through practice and doing things together. Two of my own sons have also studied this program. Now the NY programme receives significant additional funding and can expand across Finland. The long run will also have an impact on the fact that new generations will also have the courage to continue to be entrepreneurs in agriculture and forestry in the future. Much has been done, but much remains to be done to ensure that farmers are safe and safe to try and produce us clean food. EUR 1.8 million will be allocated for advice to improve the profitability of agriculture. The committee stresses the need to reduce the carbon footprint of agriculture in the use of this budget. As Mr Pylväs said, agriculture also plays an important role in solving climate change. It's farming and protecting. I also have in mind young farmers, start-up farmers. I hope that this money can be used to support and advise young farmers in their early career. I also welcome the allocation for the renovation of the routes of Rokua and Deer. I wish everyone working in agriculture and forestry, in nature, a very happy Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u62	Mr President! When we talk about the agricultural and forestry sector, we are not talking about a small thing, we are talking about a sector with more than 60 billion turnover when we talk about this bioeconomy in all its aspects. It is quite a big issue for Finland’s success, and it is also a solution to many of the global challenges of the future at the same time. There is a lot to talk about, but I thought I would take up a few of my colleagues' good presentations. When Mr Laiho and Mr Meri raised this issue of the registration of cats and dogs well, I am pleased that the Animal Welfare Act will bring about a change. We all know that it is easier to register dogs, because there are already strong practices, and that is where we will probably get ahead quite well as soon as that legislation has been adopted, but it will certainly take time for cats to establish that practice there. But I'm glad we're getting started. It really eliminates puppy production and improves the status of animal welfare. But that is why, at this stage, there may not be enough funding for it to do just what came out of it. Mr Laukkanen raised the question of how the new generations feel meaningful, when this is such a ploy, that each time we have to increase certain appropriations here in Parliament. There are quite a few similar practices here in the Committee, and I have to say that I am a little sad myself in many respects. For example, the need to add money to counseling each time. But at least some things have moved on. For example, that 4H which was raised in the previous speech was already at the bottom, that is to say, all that was given was a real new development. 4H, by the way, is a very good example of how this climate distress can be carried forward by practical actions. Young people have the will to do something about things, and 4H has this kind of seedling project, which has led to a very large number of urban youths: in practice they are going to plant forests in areas where there has never been a forest before, and this is how to tie up coal and make yourself feel better that something has been done in practice. The Kankaanniemi raised the importance of the CAP negotiations and the importance of the financial framework. They really are important issues for the future of Finnish agriculture, and I am therefore pleased that there has been a great deal of work in this area beyond the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry. For example, Minister Tuppurainen and both the former Prime Minister and the current Prime Minister have laid the foundations for the best possible solution for Finland. In fact, I am quite pleased with what it looks like now. For example, when the cuts to the second pillar were at some point in 52 million, it now seems that they may still be in 17 million, and there is still the possibility of receiving envelopes, for example. This may go well for Finland, but you never know until the bottoms are on the boat. And why is this also important to non-Finnish agriculture? The food chain employs 340000 people, and it is very important for Finland's employment and financial flows that we can maintain our agriculture here. At the hands of the food workers, we can make its quality product into quality food, and we also need those jobs. As for how the farmer could otherwise manage, unhealthy trading practices are one of the things that eats up the farmer’s cover. I am therefore pleased that some adjustments were made to the abuse of a dominant position already raised by Mr Ihalainen during the last period, with the presence of a food agent, and that further measures are now being taken in this period, both in us and in the EU. - Thank you. It's been a great conversation from all the MPs here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u63	Mr President! I would like to begin by thanking you for giving us a very good programme of government under your leadership, which we did not need to change. That is the basis of this whole draft budget for our country, and we are also very pleased about it in the centre. I would also like to support the strong and positive agricultural and forestry policy of the government. The government's line is very good and wise. It is valuable that the government wants to strengthen our agriculture, which is the basis of our food self-sufficiency. Just as Mr Kalmari said, we employ over 300,000 people in the food chain. It is an important employer, but it should also be noted that when none of us survive without eating, but we need food, it is important that the food is produced nearby. Then it will be beneficial and good for the environment. And our domestic food production is also world-wide top-class in quality and health. I am also very pleased that the government will continue to pursue a realistic forestry policy which means that the sustainable use of forests can be continued throughout Finland. Perhaps it is not always known how important our forests are to our economy in Finland as a whole. If our most important renewable resource, forests, were to disappear so that we could no longer exploit it, then we would be in great trouble as a nation. Environmental considerations and climate considerations also offer new opportunities, as has been the case several times this autumn. For example, we can replace many plastic products with wood, and wood construction, for example, brings us new opportunities. Warmly, I support the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u64	Mr President! This shows many of the good priorities of the Government Programme. More is being invested in hiking fish, the circular economy, the protection of waters. Clean fresh waters are valuable natural resources in Finland. Fortunately, the opposition party is not deciding on environmental protection or our economy at the moment, at least on the basis of what Mr Sankelo has said. Of course, I hope that the coalition will resign from such views, which call into question the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court and state that the environmental permit should have been granted despite its harmful effects. I would like to see even more innovative solutions for food production. In recent days, news has spread from Silicon Valley, for example, about how food technology is making its way into many areas, and now, in addition to such products, replacement products for fish and seafood are being developed, for example, so that it is also possible to increase the use of fish or similar products in a way. Perhaps it still sounds a long way off, but on the other hand, who would have believed that wimp oat will become one of the major export products in Finland. Indeed, such meat substitutes are also on the rise and have a very large market value and can come alongside our other food production and produce the higher added value. This page 51 states that ‘our economy is based on the sustainable use of extenders’. This is something I'd like to question. It has been courageously said that ‘for the sustainable use of extenders’,however,20 % of exportsare based on forestry,in which case it cannot be said that we were the On the other hand, it has to be said that added value must be raised, otherwise we cannot guarantee welfare. The share of the forest industry has fallen and has diversified in our exports. Let us hope that, for example, wood construction solutions and other higher processing products will become more common and can be promoted by the government alongside such innovative food products.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u65	Mr President! It is important to discuss what fills our stomachs. It's food. In that sense, it must be said that the government programme itself gives stability to how we can fill our stomachs in this country. However, a little criticalness and, in fact, a new way of thinking about how we are going to make it possible for us to have national security of supply in this country is what kind of national state of will we have or should have with regard to our agricultural fields and then with regard to water. We must cherish the most important aspect of self-sufficiency and security of supply, namely where the seed is placed and where it is watered — our forests, fields and waters. We must be able to react more quickly there, and now that we have already given our forests to international investment companies, we must at least take care of our own groundwater and water resources in a self-centered manner. Whatever it is, we must have legislation in the European Union to ensure that, nationally, we can ensure that the arable land suitable for farming in Finland is kept on family farms, for example, from father or mother to son and daughter. It is terribly important that we can ensure that our water resources are not at least subject to international trade. It is a great thing that the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry has already taken a stand here and has already made it clear in part that we are concerned about this, and for that I thank the chairman of the committee, Mrs Kalmar, who is constantly sitting here. Firstly, the wish for a good Christmas for the whole committee, but also for the section which has made this proposal, which we are now discussing in Section 30. I would also like to point out what I was able to say in that debate about the use of the Finnish flag in the marketing of foodstuffs, from ham to lamb. We cannot tolerate our purchasing decisions as misleading marketing, and it is important in that sense that we intervene in this and we cannot accept the fact that we are selling so-called nationalised food here, but we are using the swan flag when it comes to origin. It is therefore good to note with gratitude that the Government Programme has raised this issue — one of the most important issues in this sector — that origin labelling needs to be clarified. I hope that in this Parliament we can agree that we must not be misled by consumers on the basis of which flag we sell products. However, as a matter of particular importance, I would like to point out that afforestation of land is a carbon sink issue if we want to discuss how we grow forests, but if we have under-utilised and uncultivated arable areas, then according to the Government Programme, we must be vigorous in our ability to hold a debate in the EU in order to make use of the subsidies that come to farms. It is indeed important to accept the fact that we have arable land that is not suitable for cultivation, and we must courageously afforest them, because it is completely pointless for us to have areas that are just covered by subsidies in order to get money out of it. We should see that every hectare that we have is produced in this country. That is why there is a negative saying about nonsense, and we must be able to determine nationally that the harvest obligation is the one that will be the first to intervene in this matter. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u66	Mr President! There has been a great deal of debate about improving the competitiveness and profitability of agriculture in general this autumn, and indeed last spring, and there are, of course, some issues that are beginning to emerge, such as the need for pork in China. When one recalls that it was once in America when salmonella struck a broiler, that was when it was taken there and saved part of it. Now, of course, it is hoped that the demand for pigmeat will be increased. China would continue to grow and the price would be good and would improve the profitability and viability of a particular production sector. Overall, food production and the related security of supply and food safety are important issues, and these are top-notch in Finland. That is why we now have the opportunity, from the point of view of the food safety and security sector, to improve food exports and thereby increase the profitability of agriculture. As before there was talk here, the fisheries sector is one that we should pay attention to. First of all, a few increases have already been made here, but I would like to raise a few of the increases that have been made in the budget, above all in relation to the spring framework. It will be able to keep environmental compensation at the 2019 level, increase the number of organic commitments and secure investments through the capitalisation of Makera, and it will also focus on the appropriations to be made available for the post of the new Food Market Commissioner. There are also advisory services mentioned here in previous speeches, and considering that we have farmers' position now getting younger and young people need such advice, it is really important for ProAgria as well as for other agricultural advisory services that we have increased EUR 1.8 million in state funds, and there is a statement then that this should now be permanent. There are a few appropriations here, which have always been increased annually. I remember from ten years ago that there have always been an increase of some 600,000 to 1.5 million, and 4H and ProAgria, for example, have been on the agricultural side of these sectors and associations, to which it has been added that their activities will then be fair. After all, after all the torques, 250,000 were added to the No 4H Association here in Parliament, and I see it as very important. There is reference here to the employment and tying of young people to the fact that money does not come out of the wall, so to speak, but must be earned, and as young as you catch up with the job, then you start to say something, even your own head, that you have to take a different position than you might have thought in the past. This afforestation is really good. It increases our carbon sink and at the same time gives young people the opportunity to get their own money. It was a significant sum to remember whether it was 6.5 million, which was paid to young people last year. It's a very significant amount of money, though. Thank you also to the members of the committee and, above all, to Mr Kalmar for the finely drawn autumn — in the spring — and also to the members of the Section for Agriculture and Rural Development for all this cooperation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u67	Mr President! The profitability of agriculture has continued to be difficult for years and, in the light of economic indicators, the overall picture has deteriorated. Nevertheless, Finnish agriculture is strictly maintained and developed, and it is also hoped that it will make greater use of producers' knowledge and value for their professional skills. Finnish agricultural production needs to be made more entrepreneurial and attractive, especially for young operators, so that there are enough people to continue with important work. We have a great clean nature in Finland, which also gives good farming conditions, although at the same time, of course, it also brings challenges with regard to the location of the north. Tax evasion of transport fuels penalises the profitability of rural economic activities and, at the same time, agriculture. The increase is particularly difficult for people living in sparsely populated areas, because there is a practical need for a car. It is good that organic food and local food are mentioned in the Government Programme. They are also important in terms of profitability and productivity in agriculture in the future, because they are the things people also appreciate: Finnishness, domesticity. It is particularly worthwhile to invest in them, as well as in the availability of organic and local food in schools and day-care centres. It should also be taken into account in all public procurements that investment in these is being made. The issue of origin marking raised by Mr Myllykoski is very important, and this should also be taken into account in particular in the Einex, where the origin of meat, for example, has been. New food innovations can also be important for exports, and it is worth paying attention to in the future. Legislation must also make it easier for food to be processed and sold directly from farms. Similarly, the competitiveness of slaughterhouses and other food establishments must be improved by reducing control, inspection and authorisation fees, while at the same time ensuring the welfare of farms and animals. Finally, just a mention of wolves: we must ensure that people can stay in their own courtyards in peace and that wolves stay in other countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u68	Mr. Speaker! In that debut, I asked Minister Leppä about the assessment of the fall of the Kuopio project that he might see the differences between this licensed Äänekoski plant about six years ago and the fall of the Kuopio project. I think it is very important that this be clarified and that we consider what kind of factors these solutions have been made when the result is the opposite. The Minister did not have time to answer that question, but I hope that the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry will address this issue with the ear of the spring. This does not really belong to us in the section; it belongs to you on the committee's side. It's a huge deal. There are a large number of jobs in North Savo. The wood supply area is wide and has a huge impact on it. There are huge carry-on flows, which it affects. It affects jobs in rural areas, housing, life opportunities and, above all, the volume of our exports and, therefore, the outlook for the national economy as a whole. So it's really serious. Mr. Speaker! In general, it is now extremely important to keep this forestry policy in our hands. I have a little fear, and I hope it is wrong that we are moving in the direction of national forestry policy being brought down to a European level. If this happens or is said to happen, it would be quite risky. There are such political forces and other arrangements that conservation and methods of limiting forest felling, for example because of the climate policy needed in itself, could be reflected in our forestry policy in a worrying way. In Finland, forest management is on average at a good level, but there is certainly room for improvement. For example, for heirs and older owners, even more effective measures may be needed to ensure even greater forest growth. It's good now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u69	Mr President! Issues and political decisions relating to agriculture and forestry are at the very centre of our efforts to address the major challenges of our time in relation to climate change, biodiversity loss and the ecological state of water systems. That is why these budgetary solutions are at the heart of the matter. In many ways, next year will be very important. There will be major decisions and reforms in order to achieve the goals set out in the Government Programme for next year. There will be major questions relating to the use of forests next year, and on the agricultural side, of course, this coming financial period, which is a very topical debate. We have good projects, such as the project on the protection of the Baltic Sea, which was launched last season, i.e. this EUR 15 million per year, which was then decided each year, specifically targeted at gypsum treatment in fields, partly also for the exploitation of structural lime and various fibre solutions. It has been a pleasure to note that the new government has also decided to continue this funding. However, these types of treatment do not yet address the root causes that we have, for example, cause eutrophication in our waters, and it would therefore be very important to launch reform work at systemic level, for example in our support systems. As I said, this is very timely at the moment. We face challenges in our agriculture in terms of profitability, as many speakers have pointed out. Many farmers are facing economic challenges and the situation has not improved much, but, rather, the plight has deepened in many respects. At the same time, we face very great challenges in agriculture to achieve the emission reduction targets that have been set for agriculture. For example, it is now clear from Statistics Finland's figures that these emission reductions have not been achieved much in agriculture since the 1990s. This is not, of course, a matter for farmers, and they should not be blamed, but rather so that we need to reform our systems in order to encourage and support the good work and potential that can be found with regard to agriculture. One example that I would particularly like to highlight is the application of manure and the grubbing-up of fields for this purpose. This would require circular economy solutions that would benefit both the farmer and then the environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u70	Mr President! I was about to make it, but I wasn't. — — — — I think it was a good thing that Mr Kankaanniemi raised an important issue. If I have been concerned about the fields and forests here, then we must be really awake nationally so that forest policy is what we regulate nationally. Although it seems attractive that we can make forestry policy throughout the EU, it must be borne in mind that it is the green gold – which has not been said many times in this Chamber – for the whole of our business structure, and I would like us to dare again to bring up the term that Finland is the country of green gold. We must ensure that we have the decision-making around its gold at national level. In the governments and between governments, we must not start to wonder whether we should give forestry policy to the EU and to EU decision-making. We must really hold on to it, that we can be sure of what is happening in our forests, whether it is carbon sinks or whether we have enough wood available for the forest processing industry. Without taking a stand on what will then happen in court with regard to those permits. The damage to crops is also a key element, and I believe that environmental considerations should also be taken into account here. We have now had to make decisions in the last couple of years to support farmers who have been hit by extreme weather events through the taxation of fuels. We must fundamentally change this system and perhaps take a backward step towards re-establishing a system of crop damage in this country. One of the Nordic MPs was of the opinion that we should go back to the system that, through the insurance system — when we have not been able to get it as a solution — we can do so so that part of the state, part of the insurance, could then be involved in this method. What is important is that we cannot have such a system that only those who use light fuel or dust will receive the subsidies when we also have bio- and renewable energy dryers running. Yes, we must be able to see that environmental friendliness is ahead of us. On these food issues: I would also like to stress that we should have the protection of new innovations so that trades cannot subject a good invention to their own private label. Yes, there must be some security for that innovation and that invention in the market, whether it is Härkis or Whispering Oatmeal or whatever. Yes, it must be possible for us to calm down the product for a while so that the company that made it and invested in it can get its own business on the market so that trades do not subject it to patent and innovation for their own commercial purposes so quickly. Professional fishermen, they should not be forgotten. We want to have Christmas salmon on the table, and in that sense we must see that in this country too, in terms of professional fishing, we can secure fish caught both from inland waters and then from the sea. We must thank the section on state resources, which gave the Pyhäjärvi Institute the funding so that we can continue to have the opportunity to develop and copy the lake fish steak, and even now the fish caught in the Baltic Sea, which is also a source of food.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u71	Mr President! ‘Mrs.Originally’I’m going to write about the good origin Long-term work has been carried out on this issue of origin marking. I myself remember twelve years here wrestling for it, and I fancied it when the first time in the EU went through the compulsory possibility of origin marking. But, as has been said here, it does not apply to packaged food, so it would be a good thing for it to go further, and it is absolutely wonderful that it was already moving forward with regard to restaurant food. There's still a lot of taps we can take. That's where the minister just told us we got a rerun. This was experimental and went with exactly the same specs that France got through — and they are also proud of their own food — but I believe that, while we work long-term and persistently at the end of the EU, we can make further progress on this. It is great that the Finnish food industry also took the view that this labelling is a good thing. At some point in the meat sector, for example, this was not thought of, but today everyone is proud to be able to present their own products as domestic, and there is no such country-of-origin washing, consumer misleading, to that extent. The fact is that if we demand much from our own food, the least we can do is that the consumer can make a difference when he knows where the food comes from. As far as water is concerned, these were raised in many speeches. I am annoyed and heartened when I often hear speeches of this kind, as Mr Sirén said in that regard too, that agricultural emissions have not been reduced since the 1990s. Firstly, according to recent studies, agricultural emissions are lower than estimated, but the fact is that the use of phosphorus from the 1990s, from the beginning of the EU period, has fallen by 70% and the use of nitrogen by 30-40%. And if it does not appear in the calculations, then there is something wrong with the calculations quite certainly or emissions come from elsewhere. A good example of how confusing this debate sometimes is is is the fact that, for example, the livestock economy of Uusimaa has been strongly accused of eutrophication in the interests of Helsinki. There are 1665,000 people in Uusimaa who produce 1.98 million kilos of phosphorus. There are 21742 cattle in Uusimaa that produce 200,000 kilos of phosphorus. Which do you think will give Helsinki a better chance? The cattle that also see to it that grass farming is profitable? In fact, in Uusimaa the Society for the Protection of Waters wanted more livestock farms because it would be easier to manage the winter cover when there was some sensible use of the grass. But in any case, it is important to continue to work there on the agricultural side in order to improve environmental well-being. Fortunately, the state of inland waterways is very good in many places, but there is still a lot of work to be done there, and it is equally important to make climate-friendly decisions. As far as Mr Kankaanniemi is concerned, I think it is really important – we cannot make any difference to the KHO decision – but for the following projects, we should consider how these projects should be done in such a way that we can move forward under the EU Water Framework Directive. In Central Finland, this went perfectly, and it was done in cooperation with Ely in advance. I believe that such a partnership would be absolute. That is exactly what I am thinking on that side of the fisheries sector: we are currently in a situation where only 18% of the fish we eat is domestic and fish cannot be grown much in Finland. We should work together to find a way to make this possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u72	Mr President! The Section for Agriculture and Forestry is certainly one of the most important for Finland, if not the most important, when you look at the Finnish economy, where the money comes from and where we live. First of all, on the agricultural side, it is with satisfaction that the Government Programme's policy to fully compensate for the shortfalls in compensatory allowances and environmental compensation is being implemented. That's the road we're on, and that's the road we have to stay on. If we want to eat clean Finnish food and keep some 300,000 jobs healthy and alive in this country, that means that we will then have well-functioning agriculture, which is still based on family farms. It is the most efficient distributed food production system in the world. It is also worth all doubters to remember that all Finnish farms are north of the 60th parallel, compared to, for example, Swedish agriculture, where almost all farms are south of this district. We must therefore keep agriculture alive, the income of the farmer profitable, and then the production of domestic food good. Exports are opening up to the world right now. Clean food is needed more than ever on that world market, and it is the salvation of Finnish agriculture. One thing, Mr President: when we go to the store, you might want to think about what you buy there, because when we buy that Finnish food, we take care of our own health, but at the same time we also support the Finnish farmer to keep those farms alive. Forest matters are another matter, which is of course the big thing in this section. I have been somewhat confused by this debate on land use and then on carbon sink calculations in forestry, which is currently being twisted in Europe. That's what I've been wondering when at the Natural Resources Center, there's no more than a week old truth about what's the right level. Now that you have learned a little more about that subject, there are such contradictions that do not fit in my head. For example, much - spoken peat fields: they are calculated with maximum emissions, even though there are 200 - year - old fields that are probably already decomposed so that there will be no emissions into the atmosphere when they have already turned into soils. There will be no emissions, but the maximum emissions will still be calculated for them. In other words, before any final decisions are taken, there must be enough backbone in this country to check these calculations, and for that reason EUR 200,000 is earmarked for this section of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry specifically for peatland research, so that we can know the truth about the correct figure there. Just as Mr Kalmari, as chairman of the committee, said about nitrogen and phosphorus discharges into water bodies, and the figures he has put forward are absolutely true that, when the culprits are sought, agriculture is always the first to do so for some reason. Once it has been invented, it is always suspected, even though in fact there are other reasons for which the water bodies are eutrophic. Then today we have been saddened in Eastern Finland when the Finnpulp decision came from the Supreme Administrative Court. I understand that the courts are independent, and so it should be, but it is a rather strange situation in Finland when the administrative court decides where the industry is to be placed. However, this facility would certainly have been equipped with the most modern cleaning technology in the world and with the best technology in the world in general and would have done a huge job. When you think that if we send out a signal from this country that no new factory should be built here, then that means, Mr President, that one day our present forest industry companies will be leaving here — since investments must not be made or modernised, then we will go away. The same was true of the wind farm planned for Kajaani Murtomäke. As I recall, nine wind turbines were supposed to be there, but it will not be when the Supreme Administrative Court took over that too and specifically because of the wolf. I can’t understand how a farm animal can bother with a 100 - meter - high propellant. There must be a relatively delicate waste, and it is known that it has good legs — it runs 70 kilometers per night — so if the area is not pleased, let it move a little further. This is the Finnish policy of reducing the opportunities for rural life. The whole time is talking about the bioeconomy and the additional use of Finnish natural resources to raise this country out of the swamp of debt, because unfortunately that debt is growing all the time, and if we do not pay it ourselves, then that is what our children and the children of our children will pay. A tiny one is in the mood after the decisions that have just been mentioned, but should not be discouraged. We in this house must ensure that the decision-making place for this country's investment decisions is the Finnish Parliament. This is going to be quite impossible for it to be a court that decides where industrial installations are located. Where else can they be located besides where the raw materials are? It's the only place I can think of.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u73	Mr. Speaker! I comfort Mr Hosko: we still have enough independence to preserve its independence and to strengthen it a little. However, a few ideas were raised in these good speeches. Yes, wolf politics is such that it speaks so much. We are in no particular danger in Central Finland, but it is incomprehensible that we cannot make sense of it. The wolf belongs to the Finnish nature, but only to the wilderness, not to the courtyards or villages. It would have to be quick to get a clear change of direction. The crop damage cases came up very well there from Mrs Myllykoski, and I expect the government to re-establish the system of compensation for crop damage. We need to find out what the bottom is for us to do that. We have a statement here, as there are twenty other very good statements in this section of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Then I expect that these measures presented by Mr Karhinen in relation to the food sector will be put in place and taken forward. The fourth point is the construction of wood: It should be strongly promoted. We in the Housing and Environment Section dealt with it very strongly, but it is also worth highlighting here. The transfer of the capital I have proposed from Helsinki to Jyväskylä was not widely supported, although Helsinki is apparently sinking under the sea or on water due to climate change and is here in the insecure area of the Baltic Sea and that would be wise. However, Jyväskylä is the main city of Finnish wood construction, i.e. the largest number of wooden buildings and, for example, wooden apartment buildings, and the experiences are good. The government should promote that wood construction, and now that the MAL agreement comes to Jyväskylä, it would be worth giving extra support to get this timber construction going at a very good pace and as a global model of how we use our climate policy wisely. Not intimidating or harassing people, but offering good opportunities to act in that way for the climate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u74	Mr President! These figures were raised in relation to reductions in emissions in agriculture, and the first thing to say is that it is not appropriate in any way to point a finger at anyone, but rather these are common challenges that need to be tackled together. These emission reduction challenges in agriculture, which I have mentioned, relate specifically to greenhouse gas emissions, and in these areas emissions reductions have not been achieved since the 1990s. This was evident, for example, in Luke’s expert hearing on the budget, and Statistics Finland has mapped these emission reductions in a very long time line. This is the timeline I was talking about, and I was referring to it. As far as phosphorus and nitrogen are concerned, it is true that reductions have been made, and there are indeed many farmers who have made huge investments and changes in their own policies, even on their own initiative, just because sustainable and environmentally friendly activities are being carried out there on their own farm, and for this they are very much obliged. The angle of this debate between this Chamber and this House should be the way in which we could better manage and support the sustainable and environmentally and climate-friendly activities that farmers are doing with the systems in our hands. With regard to phosphorus and nitrogen, however, Finland, just like other countries, has had challenges in achieving the emission reduction targets that have been proposed and committed to, for example, HELCOM's cooperation. This, too, is a common challenge. All in all, there is an urgent need for action and political guidance in the land-use sector in this direction if we are to achieve the objectives that the government has committed itself to in relation to climate change, in relation to the halting of biodiversity loss and also in relation to these river basin issues. For example, the rural programme is a major instrument for us to use. It amounts to EUR 8 billion, and this is significantly higher than, for example, Sweden's corresponding programme, almost double the figure. However, we still face challenges, both in terms of profitability and sustainability. My own message to this debate is precisely that we should look closely at these systems and listen together to them, that is, systemic reforms.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u75	Mr President! It is very good that the situation and needs of migratory fish have been taken into account. What is important is that migration barriers are being dismantled, dams are being bypassed and weavers are being refurbished. Most of the fish trails only work in one direction. Safe migration down is a necessary condition for growing areas to stamp fish in water. There can be no functioning natural cycle of mother fish that have been marked upstream and want to climb the spawning area. I am speaking because I would like to emphasise the importance of ensuring that fish are brought down. We have fine migratory fish, and I want this stock to continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u76	Mr President! I must say here that, as chairman of this local food club, I think it is particularly important that we can promote this whole activity and combine it with organic food. If we can involve local actors so that the carbon footprint is less important when we only take from the locals, then it is really important for the whole food chain. That is why I would like to say a Merry Christmas and at least a Happy New Year to the chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. Thank you for the work you have done in setting up this club. Let's go with the local food — we're at the point where we have the chance. We know that if we want to market internationally food that is asked for in China, it means in Finland price increases at that counter, but if it is close to production, then I am at least more prepared to pay the euro.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u77	Mr President! We are dealing with the section of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, and often in this kind of usual discussion wants to have an understanding of the way that the political reference group that I represent in this Parliament, as if it did not appreciate this section. It is not only that the ministers in this fine way greet the representatives of the people in Christmas greetings and hope that the domestic ham would be at the table — playfully I visited that Christmas event of my own political group, which was up there, that there is a domestic food at the table, and was, I can tell you — but that there are a number of points where we all have to value agriculture and forestry and its functioning in Finnish society. Of course, the very first and fundamental issue is security of supply, and in that sense it is necessary and necessary to ensure food self-sufficiency in the long run. Secondly, Finland is an exceptionally large country in terms of its surface area, and it is reasonable that we should also seek to colonise sparsely populated areas, more sparsely populated areas, and it is quite clear that agriculture and forestry are here a key provider of living standards and maintainer of living conditions in these areas, and in that respect it is valuable work. Mr Hokkonen also referred in his own speech to the impact on employment: 300,000 working years come from those working in agriculture, which is also a valuable contribution to Finnish society. And it must also be said, in the interests of honesty, that domestic food has also been found to be the cleanest and healthiest in international comparisons, and this aspect must also be taken into account here. In this respect, this concept of local food, which we have talked about a great deal, makes sense, and I too am happy to support the efforts made to ensure that, when we source food, we make a clear effort to consume domestic food in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u78	Mr President! A few more comments on the agriculture and forestry budget remained unsaid: First of all, this big fraud: There is now an allocation of EUR 8.85 million for fraud compensation and even with the accompanying words that compensation should come quickly and on time without any further delay. I hope so, because many farmers and hunters who have suffered loss have also experienced the delay of the money, and it is precisely the resistance that this great deception can achieve among ordinary people. Let's not take responsibility for being protected. This is why we have to make sure that the damages come quickly in this house. Just today I read in the paper that in North Karelia there is a joint patrol of the police and an inspector who oversees poaching. It is, in itself, offensive that people in rural areas should go to check on the idea of poaching. Yes, the fact is that every Finnish person and every hunter knows their own responsibility and the game is handled, yachts are organized, nature is treated, harmful animals are removed and alien species are removed just as the law says. But the fact that the national press is openly talking about combating poaching is a rather brutal text that I cannot accept in any way. I am also surprised that the police are going to investigate this situation with the inspectors, as it were, driving along the tracks. But what happens when that wolflama rolls around in the yard? On Sunday morning my mother called me, crying that when her little son has to go to school, a flock of wolves are feeding at that moment, and a little boy goes by the back of his backpack on the school road. It's not gonna be a cop, it's not gonna be a cop. When you call them, they'll tell you you have to report it to the Pussy database first. After that, if there The paw database contains a sufficient number of entries, may be issued with an expulsion permit from the police. They try to banish you twice, and then maybe they'll give you a removal permit. But in the case of Kuhmo, the authority withdrew the application as to whether to obtain its removal permit because there was no certainty as to which herd the wolf was from. What a wonder this is in this country when the life of a normal Finnish family revolves around it to secure the school road for young children, so that the wolves do not eat that little child off the side of the road. How many of you MPs would send their own children to the school road when the wolf is mauling a flock of sheep on the edge of the field at that very moment?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u81	Mr President! Here more than one of the previous speakers spoke of fish, and the fish are, of course, part of the Christmas table. There was also an excellent point, I think there was a representative from Myllykoski who said about this that Finns eat too little Finnish fish, especially natural fish, which is too scarcely available. On the other hand, if you look at the selection at the market’s fish counter, Norwegian farmed salmon is too well available, and it would be desirable for that domestic fish to gain more foothold. In fact, during the last season, I made an opening that the potential of fishing tourism should be better mapped and the Finnish strategy for developing fisheries in leisure time will be updated. It was a happy thing that last season the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry carried out this update. This strategy work has now been updated, and I believe that the government will certainly now promote leisure fishing in accordance with this strategy. That would be very desirable. However, the exploitation of fisheries requires the availability of this fish, and therefore a sustainable fisheries policy is so important, both from the point of view of our biodiversity and, for example, from the point of view of fishing tourism potential. With joy I have greeted the increases in the budget that the government has made in this direction for migratory fish, and there has also been a debate about dismantling these obstacles to migration. From the point of view of the opposition, full support for such promotion of sustainable fishing and better status of migratory fish.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u82	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say to Mr Hoskonen that this new management plan for the wolf population, which is aimed at preventing damage and putting up with the wolves, was scandalous to read, and I too am concerned that wolves can actually be dangerous to people too, especially small children, if their position is too big. In fact, the reason why I asked to speak was precisely because of the availability of domestic fish. Mr Kalmari pointed out that the availability of domestic fish was poor and it was used less than in the past. Yes, often the problem is that you can’t even get it in shops, or if you can get it, it’s very high - priced. At the same time, however, it should be eaten — nutrition recommendations are that fish should be used. It is a very financial question for many families how often fish can be used and eaten, or it is the Norwegian salmon, or even the salmon or other fish imported from far away, even from Vietnam. Similarly, this poses a challenge for public food providers, schools and day - care centres, which should be very cost-effective in getting food produced — domestic fish is unfortunately expensive for those suppliers too. The way in which fish farming conditions and conditions can be improved at home is a crucial issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u83	Mr President! The fish talk inspired me to give this speech. The Kemijoki River was once the greatest salmon river in Finland, known for its very large catch and pure nature. Since then, the river was harnessed to meet the growing demand for energy for electricity generation. As a result, however, the original salmon strain of the Kemijoki River was extinct. The state company Kemijoki Oy has practically mined the river from the perspective of hiking fishes with its numerous dams. Only about 50 kilometers [50 km] of Sierilä is still flowing free. Water management in Finland is in power plant use where the total amount of water management is scraped. It is particularly questionable that hydropower is being further built by a company that has not been able to build hiking routes for decades, despite its obligations. It would be possible to build natural fishing paths along the dams, but there is no will, because the right incentives are lacking to prevent the destruction of nature. The so-called polluter pays principle should be a guiding principle. The ambition for water management and the protection of fish stocks must be increased. Mr President! This line of the Rinte and Marin Government has included excellent records in its programme to increase the ambition of fisheries policy. However, recordings are just words as long as they do not appear in the works. Unfortunately, the conflict between deeds and words is screaming. Sirpa Paatero, Minister of Ownership Steering of the previous government, pointed out this summer that the construction of the Sierilä dam and the Government's fisheries policy are not incompatible. Patoa Sierilä is designed by Kemijoki Oy, a state-owned company. Does any entry make any difference if all of them are flexible whenever any interest group so wishes? Could the Marin government now correct this mistake of the previous government? Mr President! The Water Act should be reformed in such a way as to compensate for the damage caused by hydroelectric power stations to fish stocks and fisheries. The amendment of the law must also oblige the construction of fishing roads if damming has created a problem for endangered fish stocks. The Government must also set itself the objective of a controlled shutdown of small hydro power plants, i.e. less than 5 MW, starting with low-power plants. Mr President! The hope of Northern Finland rests in the tourism industry. We also have a duty to leave our country’s nature in a better condition for posterity than we received it ourselves. The Sierilä dam should not be built and the construction of hiking fishing routes should be extended to all dams of the Kemijoki river.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u84	Mr President! The wolf is certainly not an endangered species in the global review, but when the European Union considers that there must be a certain number of wolves, like other species, within the Union, and the number of wolves in the EU is limited — they exist in just a few countries — it is therefore so strictly protected by the EU, and that change should be made there to allow us to have a sensible wolf policy. I have thought that when the Finnish Presidency of the European Union is over, the government could donate one pack of wolves to Brussels to the EU, so they would feel it there — and why not bring a couple of herds to Helsinki Central Park, so people would see how it feels here too. Mr. Speaker! I have a motion here tomorrow to vote on 24: an increase of EUR 200,000 for research into the dronning of black-military flies and coal at the Bioeconomy Institute in Saarijärvi. A black soldier fly is a very interesting small organism. Its larvae devoured almost anything. They eat mold poisons, hazardous waste, drugs, and do not collect heavy metals for their bodies effectively clean them. They can therefore be used effectively to dispose of waste and then these larvae and snails can be used as animal and fish feeds. These black - soldier flies have a lot of fat and protein, which means that they are also a good biofuel ingredient. That is an interesting thing, and when I contacted that Bioeconomy Institute in Saarijärvi, they were very pleased to see that attention is being paid to this issue. It would be great if Parliament were to give this 200000 in advance. It's incredibly interesting. This is what we need. Similarly, the drenning of coal that is being carried out there, that is to say, the drenning, is used to study carbon concentrations. I can't explain it any further now. It's such a high science that I don't have the brains to do it. Such small but very valuable items should be financed here and perhaps not always stuck to the same old ones, as is often the case with these reports.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u85	Ladies and gentlemen! All I have to say is that we still have a section in the administrative branch of the Ministry of Justice to deal with, and I know that there are more representatives waiting for this debate to take place. That in any way, without prejudice to anyone's right to speak, I will simply say this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u86	I appreciate, President, that you do not restrict the right to speak. — At this point, Mr Hoskonen's speech on the wolf population forces me to ask more questions to understand than to challenge. I understand that in Metsähallitus' classifications the wolf is classified as a highly endangered species together with the glutton. These are the only major predators in Finland that have been found to be highly endangered. That is what we are looking at every year, and this is a very high-risk assessment of this year, if I have understood correctly. It is estimated that there are 250 breeding wolves in Finland and the population is decreasing. In that sense, the threat is related to its extinction in Finland, disappearing completely. This would obviously be the factual basis in this background. I do not want to underestimate at all the fear situations caused by the presence and proximity of the wolf, as you have just told us about this little child who is moving around in a situation where wolves are near — even an adult who would move there would be concerned when he does not know how the wolf behaves — but I would also like to ask you, Mr Hokkonen, although the President here wanted this debate to be brought to an end: do we have examples in recent years that the wolf has genuinely attacked a person and caused personal injury? This is exactly what I wanted to ask, because fear is fear, and we have a wide range of fears about different things, but how is this factual basis in this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u87	Mr Hoskonen, answer this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u88	Mr President! Thank you for the floor. — — — — There have been many near miss situations when a wolf has been near a child, but at that very moment it has happened to be an adult. I don't even want to imagine what would have happened if that grown-up person hadn't shown up in his own car at that moment. There are so many of these situations. These speeches by Metsähallitus, by batch inspectors and other scientists, that it is endangered — they are not true. According to my survey last autumn alone, Ilomants, Lieksa, Nurmes, Juua, Valtimo and Kuhmo have at least 150 wolves, and the whole population of Finland is 250. Every reasonable person knows that The information from the Natural Resources Agency is extremely distorted. And they won't allow that snowprint study by hunters together to reveal this. You understand why. I've heard excuses from there until I'm tired. But, ladies and gentlemen of the Finnish people, remember, ladies and gentlemen, it is not endangered. 50,000 wolves are in that population, and we're the little corner of the western corner and that's where the onion is. It'll never go extinct. It's obvious. We can't even get it done.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u89	Now let's do it the way we move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u90	Mr. Speaker! Indeed, we can come back to this debate later, but as far as this threat of the wolf is concerned, for the first time in the last parliamentary term, this Parliament, by a majority, agreed that we should try to move the wolf from that endangered category to those with strict eye, and of course we had to have the facts that we were able to do this in committee. We thought that the wolf population was connected to the Russian population when the whole time it crossed the border. Some Finnish researchers believe that this exchange will not take place, but I believe that the DNA data, for example, in which the dispersion, heterosis, was greater in Finland than in the Russian population, shows that it must be. If there is a population of 250 individuals, it is Finnish horses or what, then it is very small. We strongly believe that there is an exchange. Of course, with the eyes of the people on the eastern border, they see it, but this is like scientific evidence from the point of view of our committee. That's all I want to go to this wolf conversation. On the other hand, I would like to see that every time this debate on the use of forests takes place in Parliament, the important thing is that every time there is investment in the forest industry in a country, it creates such an incentive, an inspiration, to grow that forest. In fact, if we look at the countries where deforestation is most important, it is there that the forest is of no value. Then the forest is worth pulling into a field, or it can be destroyed just by burning when it has no value. But in Finland, where investments in the forest industry have been made and the forest has always been used sustainably – we have taken stock of forests and the recommendations of Metsäkeskus for sustainable logging have been for ages – we have an inspiration for growing that forest and four trees are planted in place of each felled tree. What I am very pleased about is that, here, for example, Mr Holopainen's investment in new products has started to come. In our province too, my dream will soon come true that Anne could come here to represent Parliament in a pine dress. There is a composite, and it is actually a rather common-day product, reasonably cheap, but in addition to insulating fibers and a variety of things all the way to the retina of the eye are made wood-based. I believe that this is precisely the development that needs to be made in addition to its construction of wood. After all, the emissions of a wooden block are 40 per cent lower than those of a concrete building, and I believe that we all share a common will to develop this. I thank you for a good debate and I promise you that I will no longer take the floor. I thought that at the end of the day I would like to do so, but now I will end this good debate for myself. Thank you. These have been recorded in my own files and in my brain, so that then, in the committee, these things can be taken forward. To Sirén, we are now much closer to each other, even though we were reduced by 3% on the agricultural side.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u91	Mr President! That is exactly how constructive an approach and without blaming anyone can be found in this sector or in these sectors. Mr Heikkinen made an excellent speech about this barrier in Sierilä, and it is very easy to agree with it. It would be hoped that the government would also hear this message and consider the opening of the Water Act in order to promote the recovery of these migratory fish stocks. Indeed, it is necessary to look again at these old fishing obligations. But at the end of this period, the government is still applauding the fact that the potential of biogas is now strongly reflected both in the Government Programme and in this budget proposal. The use of biogas in transport has enormous potential, perhaps especially in the heavy transport sector, but also in passenger transport. I've been driving a biogas truck myself for a couple of years. Domestic fuel based on a circular economy is a great opportunity for Finland and also a great opportunity to reduce emissions. I understand that, in this draft budget, action under the biogas programme is directed specifically at investment aid. This is a very positive thing, and I am sure it will be necessary, but in the same way, structural circular economy thinking is also needed more deeply on how to make better use of animal manure, for example, and to replace virgin and non-renewable raw materials in organic fertilisers. This is a large, wide-ranging entity, from which there is a great deal of potential benefits to be gained from the major environmental and climate challenges we face. For my part, too, I would like to thank you very much for this debate. Let us continue with a constructive approach to these common themes next year. Merry Christmas, everybody!
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u92	Mr President! This wolf discussion reminded me that many laws governing the agricultural industry are quite a wolf in nature. It also made me think of talking a little bit about food production and related legislation at this point. It is essential for the sustainable future of food production that the profitability and productivity of our agriculture should increase. The better the price of the product, the healthier and more vibrant the market environment for the sector will be as a result. I think it is important that agricultural aid should focus on genuine production rather than on any form of pseudo-culture, and in this respect the control system should be further developed. Mr President! The administrative burden of red tape for the agricultural industry must also be reduced. What is crucial is that the dismantling of standards should continue both around the agricultural industry and elsewhere in society. Regrettably, the Rinne-Marin Government has not been willing to continue its efforts I would like, and I would urge, that the centre influences within the government could also take care of its continuation today. Mr President! Finnish agricultural production must be made more entrepreneurial and attractive, especially for young operators. This also involves facilitating generational exchanges, and I would see the abolition and replacement of inheritance tax as a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u93	Mr President! I do not want to prolong the discussion of this issue at all, but I wanted to clarify one thing, with two sentences actually relating to scientific evidence of the relationship and interaction between the larger wolf population in Russia and the small wolf population in Finland. There may be different estimates, but what I have understood about literature at this point has been the scientific evidence that the Finnish small wolf population is inclined to decline towards Russia more than to become wolves in this direction. Why? Because the biggest factor that reduces the wolf population and causes its threat in Finland is fishing, and fishing in Finland is genuinely more effective than in Karelia's ancient forests and on the other side of the border. For this reason, wolves are more inclined to side with Russia than to come here. This is obviously the argument that has been used, but the scientific evidence would say that the movement would be more in the opposite direction than in the other direction. But listen to the experts.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u94	Mr President! The time has come again during the budget week in the section of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, that until now there has been talk of fish and wolves in this Chamber, and I think there is a mention of flies, but there is one missing, and it is time for the spawn, or goat, to come here for our concern and joy. For the record, for all of us first-time budget debaters, it is a tradition of decades that began in 83 C.E. with the present Sastamala, Mr Timo Roos of the SDP, from Pirkanmaa. For one thing, I salute with joy and deep humility, bowing down, and with a Pirkanish pride, this precious assignment. However, Mr Pesälä, the long-standing President of the Centre, once said during his speech that there was no interest in it other than Santa, but this time I have left out all kinds of changes of speech. I was browsing through some of the previous speeches so that I could understand a little more deeply what this cluttering tradition is all about, and a little came up with the feeling that the closer we are to the last moments of the budget week, the more the speakers and representatives are beginning to miss the point. I had to go over what this is all about when we leave the goat, the goat, the squawk, the weed, the weed, and the sex don't get all messed up either. Perhaps, however, in this house, we all know the scapegoat, and here again today we have had quite antlers against each other, but I thought I would leave these things aside. I am sitting in that large committee, and there have been many complaints about the fact that, in the early days of the EU, the spawning population also had its own support in the agricultural budget for national support solutions, its own section for national support for spawning. This is no longer the case, but, as you know, in recent weeks, we have had intense discussions and negotiations on the future financial framework of the EU. Although many Member States have criticised Finland for making a home run in the negotiations on the financial framework, particularly as regards agriculture, I would still like to suggest whether Finland and the Pirkanese Prime Minister, Mr Marin, could, at this last holiday, find out if the EU budget base would still be torn open and get its own spot in the best interests of this vibrant domestic animal. After all, a wide range of spawning innovations have been flashed out here in previous years, so perhaps the EU's competitiveness and innovation funding or the financing of strategic investments would also provide some sort of policy to support the good future of the spawn. I fear, however, that there are many of the southern European Santas as guardians of the cabbage country, and this is not so easy to negotiate. Mr President! I also have a message for the government of the country. In recent years, the wisdom of the spawn has sought a solution to the burning political and other solid knots of life. As far as I am concerned, when the life span of the spawn is known to be about ten years, and the oldest and wisest individuals live up to 20 years, that many of them have already died while waiting for the war, have moved to greener grasslands. But I'm not looking for a scapegoat, I'm looking for sparks of hope, and I'd also like to pass on similar sparks of hope to the decision-makers of our capital. This was recently the so-called milk war in which the City Council of Helsinki decided to halve the consumption of meat and dairy products in the city with only a few years’ withdrawal time, and I have thought that it could be an opportunity for many spawners. Well, let's just say it's a poor man's cow. Even milk milks about five liters a day. I believe that Mayor Vapaavuori and I could do things with wool and use spawning milk as a substitute. Finally, Mr President, there will be no spawning without Santa, and as we know, this year has already been a real year for Santa. Finland fought its way to the European Championships for the first time in history. I think next year is a real chance for every Santa. On behalf of the whole tribe, I hope to have a real Santa eulogy all over Finland. I believe that Santa’s drug also contributes to spawning, and the statistics already show it: the number of spawnings is on the increase in Finland. To this end, Mr President, I would like to thank the government, the fellow Members, the Bureau, the officials and the people of the whole Parliament for the eventful year that has taken place. I wish everyone a peaceful Christmas. Let Santa come home to everyone!
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u95	Thank you, Mr Ovaska, for this nuanced and evoking speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u96	Presentation of Section 25 on the Ministry of Justice. 45 minutes are set aside for the general discussion in the section.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u97	Mr President! The Committee notes that the draft budget includes a number of positive and important increases in appropriations in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice and improves the operating conditions of the administrative sector. These could raise the issue of improving the implementation of criminal liability and reducing the timescales for the handling of criminal proceedings, for which additional funding of 5.2 million per year has been proposed, and there are other measures here as well. For example, 2.5 million appropriations will be made available on an annual basis to prevent violent and sexual crimes and help young offenders. Of course, the objective here is to be able to prevent re-crime. There was a lot of discussion in committee, and it was also stated in the report that these additional resources themselves will be needed and will facilitate next year. But with these JTS savings at the bottom, the savings of a billion dollars, this additional money, as it were next year, will replace these savings, but then in the years to come we will be living in more risky situations where funding goes down in many places. We said that this issue needs to be closely monitored and that it is still possible for the administration to act. This is in line with the rule of law, and especially when the sector is highly staffed. If a few things are raised here, one other concern was that when the police's budget goes up, that of course means that there will also be more cases of processes, and when the resources of the Ministry of Justice's administrative sector go down in the long term, it may lead to bottlenecks. It does not make sense, in a sense, to increase the overall contribution if it is then, as it were, left unaccounted for at the end. The committee considered it necessary for the Aipa project to be taken forward and was also concerned about its resources, but it is important that these savings obligations and resource needs be assessed and ensured that legal certainty is ensured. If you were to raise a few sections here: 0.3 Operating expenditure of the authorities working under the Ministry of Justice: there is a two-year transfer budget, and it is positive that this preparation for the reporting of violence against women — which the Minister, in fact, referred to in the Question Time — and an additional EUR 100000 for human rights reporting and addressing problems. The resources of the Data Protection Supervisor will also be increased. It was considered a good thing because the work of the Data Protection Supervisor has changed. He's got more work to do. The Intelligence Commissioner is now a new body, and resources have come into his office and must be monitored, because we do not really know what this mission of the Intelligence Commissioner is going to be like, and the committee is also new in Parliament. The committee also welcomes the fact that the draft budget has provided for the financing of the role of the Ombudsman for the elderly and for the establishment of an office. Well then there is the operating costs of the Legal Register Centre: there has been an annual increase in the level and temporary measures have also been taken to fill these cash needs. This appropriation seems to be relatively good now, but it will also be reduced by the end of the spending limits period and there will be concern. The committee considered it important that the costs of the amendments be carefully assessed during the drafting of the legislation. When the Registration Centre arrives, it must operate in an up-to-date and reliable manner. In the grant appropriations, the committee added EUR 400000 to this item for organisations promoting the prevention of violence in close relationships. Then, in the supplementary budget proposal, there were 200,000 more for the peace organisations, and the committee added it to the operational plan. In addition, the committee considers it important that the funds for refugee counselling are secured, and there is a need for this. Then the courts and legal aid: in this area of administration, 5.2 million will be increased, and thanks to the preparation of the government, but here, as I said earlier, is the problem of the future that will arise. — Time goes by so that I try some of the most important here. — The reduction of over-indebtedness is also significant financing, with an increase of 2.9 million. This was welcomed and justified by the committee. Then perhaps it is appropriate to mention the operating expenses of the DA's office. The resources of the prosecution system will be increased by EUR 2.4 million, but the situation has been that there have been transfers of appropriations that could be used for staff, and even if there is additional funding, it seems that the number of prosecutors will be reduced in the future, and this should not be the case. The committee expresses its concern about this and has also proposed that the 2020 amending budget should take into account the additional resources needed for the prosecution system.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u98	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! I would like to thank the section of the Committee on Finance for your thorough work on the draft budget for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice and the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. An amount of EUR 962 million is proposed for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice and, without taking into account variable annual electoral expenditure, the level of appropriations for the administrative sector is EUR 23 million higher than in the current year. This is very important and, at last, progress is in the right direction. We can no longer afford to spare the basic functions of the rule of law. Finland is a safe, stable, free country that protects fundamental human rights, and the importance of an independent judiciary is central to maintaining it. We must ensure security and respect for the rule of law, and this requires, for example, sufficient resources for the judiciary. One of the objectives of the government is to prevent crime and crime recurrence and to ensure that criminal liability is implemented. This budget will safeguard the conditions for the functioning of the judiciary. The number of police officers is increasing, and that means that we must also look after the resources of the rest of the criminal chain. In accordance with the Government Programme, the resources of prosecutors and courts will be increased in order to implement criminal liability and speed up the processing of criminal offences. After a final judgment, the resources of the Criminal Sanctions Agency and prisons must also be taken care of. For this reason, an additional EUR 5 million will be proposed for the administration of the Ministry of Justice to deal with criminal matters. For society and the individual, prevention is more profitable and more humane, and this is why efforts are being made to help those convicted of violent and sexual crimes and young offenders so that they do not repeat their crime. An annual grant of €2.5 million will be allocated for the next three years.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u99	Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister for this chain thinking, namely that there will be money for all those involved in the chain, and I would like to thank the Committee on Finance and the Section for having carefully read the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs. We did a lot of work on it. I would actually have asked the Minister: how do you intend to fight for this JTS objective, that is, this productivity objective? As can be seen from all these statements and reports and hearings, this productivity objective threatens this sector, the courts and the prosecution system and the whole chain, in the sense that this objective is running further and further away. How do you feel that you will have enough money for the rest of the years, and what concrete steps can be taken there?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u100	Mr President! I am very pleased that this government is taking responsibility for bilingualism in the country. As a Swedish-speaking person, I have and must have the same rights as Finnish-speaking people. That is why I am pleased that this government is clear in its message: Finland is a bilingual country. This is why the government is reforming the National Language Strategy, which guarantees everyone the right to receive service in national languages and improves the language climate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u101	Mr President! I hope that all of us in this Chamber are defenders of the rule of law and trust the Finnish authorities. Because Finns trust the authorities. The police, the judiciary and other law-abiding people enjoy solid trust. Unfortunately, we have seen in recent years that efforts have been made to break that trust, even for those in this Chamber. The legislators have been consulted on the solutions of the authorities, and the dissemination of unconfirmed rumours has sought to undermine confidence in the authorities and thus undermine the stability of Finnish society. The faith of an individual citizen in justice is also undermined by prolonged judicial processes and experience of not being able to resolve his or her own case within a reasonable period of time. We have received several judgments from the European Court of Human Rights on prolonged trials. The government is investing in the implementation of criminal responsibility. Additional resources allocated to the police and the Public Prosecutor’s Office may cause congestion in the courts. Mr Henriksson, what is the government going to do to keep people's trust in the authorities in Finland strong and that everyone gets their affairs dealt with by the authorities within a reasonable period of time?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u102	Mr President! In its report, the Committee on Finance has put forward a draft budget by the Ministry of Justice for the operational budgets of prosecutors, which requires the 2020 amending budget to take into account the additional resources needed for the operation of the Public Prosecutor's Office and to ensure staff adequacy. This statement shows that the committee has found that these inadequate funds lead to bottlenecks, longer processing times and a threat to the legal security of citizens. If Parliament now decides to increase the budget for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice and to allocate it to the Public Prosecutor's Office, the money would be made available as of the beginning of next year as a whole. If the increase comes only in the amending budget, it may only take effect in quantitative terms, depending on the proportion of the year concerned, i.e. if it is given for six months, it will mean half of this appropriation. My question to the Minister is: how will this matter be dealt with and how will it be ensured that the resources of the Prosecution Service are sufficient?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u103	Mr President! On the other hand, it is a pleasure to look at this section in so far as the positive changes and the increase in the budget are concerned with this section too, and we in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights are very pleased with that. But in view of the overall picture, which also emerged in this presentation, we must ensure that, if the police, prosecutors and others receive money, we must ensure that there are no bottlenecks, but that the district courts and other courts also have sufficient resources. Now there are not enough, and it has also been taken into account in the Committee on Legal Affairs. In fact, I would like to ask again: how will we ensure that we have sufficient resources in these areas in future? Finally, I would also like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs for his excellent work this autumn, because we have achieved such a fine result on these too.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u105	Mr President! The state of justice is not only words and declarations, it is not only a matter of principles but also a matter of practical life, actions and action, knowledge and security. Knowledge of your rights is an essential part of the rule of law and legal protection, and of course it must belong to everyone. In order to ensure this, the government has a big role to play, but the important work is also carried out in an active organisation field. One important actor in this area is the Refugee Advice Centre, whose operating conditions have been subject to widespread concern. The Committee on Finance adopted an important statement on securing the financing and operation of refugee counselling next year. I would also like to ask the Minister: how to ensure that this important activity is also secured on a long-term basis? Mr President! This is a fine area of government for us here to defend the dignity and rights of all those who are sometimes overseen or marginalized by society. Power to the Minister for that important work, and to all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u106	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for a good introduction. It is a very good thing that the government has taken the line that the investigation of crime and the whole thing are going through, that resources are being added to all the processes and that the process is being made better. We have a very good record in the Government Programme of this other one, on behalf of the victim, and I wondered at what stage we are going to take. It can be thought that the poor receive legal aid, i.e. financial support for it, and then the rich have a much better chance of going to court, because they can afford more, but the average income always remains a little bit like the speed. They must have a really good, certain case that they dare to press charges and take the case forward. This has been taken into account, and I would now like to ask the Minister: what is the timetable for this to take place?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u107	Mr President! I would have liked to ask the Minister about this continuation of the district court reform. Last season, together with the Minister, we were concerned about the realisation of both linguistic and regional rights. Now I would particularly like to highlight the situation in North Savo. There these decisions can no longer be justified by common sense nor by the savings that were originally sought. In other words, the situation at the Kuopio courthouse is that there are indoor air problems and that there is no room for staff transfers from the closure of Varkaus and Iisalmi district court. At the moment, even evasive spaces. There is too little in Kuopio, because there are cramped spaces for both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior. From this decision that this district court reform would transfer these people to Kuopio, there will be no savings for the state but, on the contrary, more costs. In Iisalmi, we are even prepared to reduce the rent on these premises so that the district court office can continue there. I know that the Minister has been appealed to about Iisalmi and, I believe, about the theft, and I would have liked to have heard: will the Minister be reorienting here now, and how will we move forward in this situation when people do not fit there?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u108	Mr President! Indeed, in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, we did a careful job and, on my side too, thank the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mere. I would also like to thank the ministers for listening to and discussing these common needs. I would now like to pay particular attention to the ability of the judiciary staff, which was raised in many consultations in various administrative areas. The basic funding of the judiciary was also concerned that such a lasting, long-term solution would be available. For many years now, the funds and resources of the judiciary have been reduced, and this will lead to a reduction in the level of legal protection in Finland. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice: is there any prospect of such an overall assessment and analysis, even though for ten years, how has this situation changed?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u109	Secretary Henrikson, three minutes from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u110	Mr President! It's easier to talk about this. — First of all, thank you all for your very good contributions. I will start with the question by the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Leena Mere, on how we are going to fight so that we will have sufficient resources for the entire criminal chain in the future, i.e. for courts, prosecutors and prison care. That is why it is extremely important that, while the resources of the police are being increased, we remember that, in order for legal security to work, we also need funds for these other parts. That is why this government proposal is obviously a step in the right direction now, and it is better than it has been for many years. In view of how other ministries are treated, this has now been done in such a way that the government has also understood that when it comes to the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice, we are talking about the core tasks of the rule of law. As has been well pointed out here, most of the costs go to staff costs, and that is why this JTS billion will not vaccinate the Ministry of Justice with the same strength as the others. I'm also trying to take care of this myself. It is also the case that, in the Ministry of Justice, we have, in a way, saved money and have also received the kind of accumulation of these funds that it is intended to pay for these information system purchases. If we were to be subjected to similar cuts in this JTS billion, it would also be difficult for us to implement these IT Aipa projects and others. That is why I will be particularly careful about this in the forthcoming negotiations, and I hope that we will also be able to get an understanding of this. As far as prosecutors are concerned, it is true that prosecutors are in a difficult situation, but it will improve with this budget. Last year we had 520 prosecutors, and next year's budget has a staff of 534, which is 14 higher. But it is also the case that an appropriation has been used at the Prosecutor's Office, a transferable appropriation that cannot be used in the future. That is why the staff have been a little bigger than the budget book of the previous year. This is not the kind of line that is sustainable.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u111	Let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u112	Mr President! Of course, the most important thing in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice is to ensure that we have sufficient resources to ensure the quality and adequate legal protection of our citizens. Both the police and the prosecution and the judiciary need adequate funding. As the Minister said, we are at the very heart of the rule of law, which we do not want to compromise on. A significant proportion of judges and other judicial staff are currently in a fixed-term relationship and therefore depend on additional fixed-term funding. This causes problems of endurance and recruitment and delays in handling matters there. I would like to ask the Minister how the government intends to ensure that the level of expertise and well-being in the courts is kept high despite these challenges. Finally, I would like to thank you for the additional contributions we have made to the prevention of, among other things, violent and sexual crimes, the assistance of young offenders and the reduction of repeat crime. These are great things.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u113	Mr President! This has shown, for both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, this constant gap in this money. 2.5 billion a year out of a budget of 57 billion in this context — perhaps it should be considered. In fact, I would have asked the minister two things: The first is the over-indebtedness of young people and the means involved. It is worrying to exist, and at least here in Helsinki, the City of Helsinki Youth Council would very much like to have such economic skills education. Is this something the government could promote? And the second question relates to the quick levers: is there going to be any change in them so that this issue does not get worse? Then another question: when page 155 of the budget states that multiculturalism poses major challenges to the functioning of courts, is there something coming from the Ministry of Justice, such as forced marriages and honour violence?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u114	Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, in the face of hard work and a very high degree of unity, the Constitution was also amended when the intelligence laws were adopted and adopted. That was a lot of effort. There are two aspects: on the one hand, the need to safeguard the safety of Finns, which is guaranteed by the Constitution, but on the other side there is also privacy, the secret of messages, these kinds of things. Now that these intelligence laws are in place, what is the situation from the point of view of the Minister of Justice? Has this demanding package of laws, in your view, responded to these needs? Has there been any need for change or clarification in this short period of validity? And then about the resources: The District Court of Helsinki, for example, deals with these permit matters. Are the resources on that side, too?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u115	Mr President! There is indeed a lot of good in the draft budget. It's great that the D.A.'s office, the courts, legal aid and the Criminal Sanctions Agency get more money. I hope this will make all the processes more flexible now. However, I am concerned about the protective part of the enforcement. The protective part of enforcement has long been at a low level, and together with my colleague Jouni Ovaska, I have asked you a written question about this increase in the protective part of enforcement. Of course, it is being raised by an index increase now, but I think the level of protection should really look up. I know, therefore, that there have been entries in the Government Programme in this direction, and I would like to ask the Minister now: at what point is this reform coming up for discussion? Otherwise, I would also like to say that Merry Christmas and thank you to the chairman of our committee and to the members of the committee as a whole. We have an excellent spirit in that committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u116	Mr President! An additional EUR 2.4 million will indeed be needed for the prosecution. Unfortunately, however, according to a report from the Prosecution Service, the effort is insufficient. How does the government intend to ensure that the Prosecution Service has sufficient resources and the ability to cope with all the austerity pressures?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u117	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for the introduction. As a representative Mr Semi mentioned this earlier, and one of the main problems with the implementation of legal protection is the increasing costs of legal proceedings and, in particular, the risk of having to pay the costs of the other party if the trial is judged to be a lost party. These problems arise in particular when a private individual and a large company and their lawyers are against each other. The costs of court proceedings should therefore be moderated, especially for middle-income citizens, and I believe that the government must intervene promptly in this matter in order to ensure the legal protection of Finns. Mr President! Another important point I would like to raise is that the penalties for crimes must be clearly linked to the seriousness of the acts. This applies in particular to crimes against children, but also to other sexual and violent crimes, for which I believe the sentences are very brief today. I would like to ask the Minister whether the government intends to take legislative action on the punishment of sexual and violent crimes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u118	Mr President! I'd like to share with the Attorney General the concerns about that North Savo. Although it is now its own constituency, it must be said that, during the last parliamentary term, big decisions were taken on the assumption and now it seems, as it was then suspected, that these assumptions were wrong. This is just the way it is that there is a big renovation of the police and courthouse in Kuopio. The agreement has not yet been reached on how big, but if it is implemented, the economic figures with which the previous Parliament has taken decisions to eliminate the district court network have been really wrong, because of course the rent levels will rise if a large renovation is made. It is about (a) the economy, but it is also about (b) whether people get to court and how long the journey will be and how it will be reflected in the work of the police and whether there will sometimes be sittings because people are not present. In other words, access to justice may be at stake. Researchers in Eastern Finland have come to the same conclusion.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u119	Mr President! Many of the questions raised have been such that I myself wonder about them. Thank you, Minister, for the good answers. The recognition of trafficking in human beings and the lack of trafficking in human beings have been highlighted in the Government Programme in many places. This is, of course, a cross-administrative issue, but the Ministry of Justice has an important and, I understand, coordinating role to play here. How can we ensure that trafficking in human beings is better identified in the future, that legislation is fair and protects the victims of trafficking, and that services are also in order to ensure that these people, who are in a very vulnerable position, are able to move forward in life? As a second question, I would like to ask briefly: when the government programme contains good records of how to help victims of sexual violence and violence in close relationships and sexual violence, and in particular to invest in low-threshold services, and more money has now been put into them,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u120	Ärade talman, Mr President-in-Office! In recent years, Europe has become well aware of the importance of not taking the functioning of the judiciary for granted and of the importance of investing in it, and that is why it is so important that we have now taken the first steps. There will certainly continue to be a need to ensure, in particular, the functioning of the lowest courts and to reduce congestion. For example, there has been a good mention here of the ability of staff, and I am very concerned about that too. There is also a new type of painting that targets staff and so on and that puts a strain on them. The committee has raised the issue and the government in its draft budget has also raised the question of reducing the time taken to deal with criminal proceedings. I would also like to draw attention to the civilian side, such as the shortening of civil processes involving children, which would certainly be very important. Can you see that something special can be done? [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u121	Mr President! With regard to Pelso prison in the municipality of Vaala, it must have been twisted for more than a decade to see whether it will survive or leave. It now appears that it would be possible to maintain it and that construction would start there — or whether it has already started. That is what I would like to ask the Minister: what is the current situation in Pelso Prison?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u122	Mr President! The aim is to introduce a positive credit register, and I would like to ask the Minister whether, in this context, the same system could also integrate a free credit ban system in order to prevent identity theft. The idea, then, is that if a person personally announces himself to this system, no one will be able to take prompt levers in his name, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u123	Mr President! My question also has to do with this quick - moving issue and, above all, with the prevention of them. The previous Parliament, by a very large majority, took a legislative initiative banning the marketing of quick-leases, as has been done in the Netherlands, where local financial supervision and the system have worked well. Even though we have already got the ceiling and other controls on the quick levers, this is still a big problem, and it is a big problem that it is so easy to take its first lever and it easily leads to a spiral that young people and many others who take it for the first time are going into over-indebtedness. This has probably been the case in the Ministry of Justice for over a year now, and I ask: is it now moving forward, or shall we go back to collecting a new initiative to find a majority in this Parliament as well?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u124	And then two more debatable remarks.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u125	Mr President! It is a good thing that we can get to this point in the same context. I also ask: do we still need to collect over 100 names? During the last parliamentary term, 138 names were collected across opposition and government party boundaries, so that the default marking would be removed faster than in that two-year period. I know that the government programme has very good records in this regard and should be moving forward, but my fear is now that a positive credit register will be linked to it and then Mr Satose's good initiative will go into that same bundle and we will choke so that the Ministry will not be able to move this whole package of laws forward. More than 870,000 citizens were indirectly behind this bill and I really hope that the Minister will take this seriously and separate it from the whole package so that we can immediately save those people who have paid their debts.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u126	Mr President! There has been a good debate here. Personally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this funding will now come for this preparation of the report on violence against women, and then, at the same time, the section actually decided to add money here on behalf of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to finally have a coordinating body, as required by Article 10 of the Istanbul Convention, with some of the same tasks. So if it is to be said that it is a question of preventing and combating these forms of violence and that this body would coordinate these activities and take care of implementation, monitoring and evaluation, when this coordination report was not on the Ministry's proposal, then I just wanted to highlight it here so that it would be carefully prepared in such a way that these various resources, which have now come for the same purpose in a way, would be used as efficiently as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u127	Then Minister Henriksson. You've had so many questions, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u128	Thank you. — Mr President, värderade talman! Ledamot Bergqvist frågade om nationalspråksstrategisteri. Det arbetet har påbörjats och det är viktigt därför att vi i det rai landet ska kunna trygga våra medborgares språkliga rättigheter på enahanda grunder. Det ser vi bland give i Helsingfors stad i dag, att alla barn inte kan få gå i dagvård på sitt modersmål svenska, och det ar är oceptabelt, som ett exempel.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u129	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. They will continue later in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u130	The general debate on section 25, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u131	Mr President! From the point of view of the development of the rule of law, it is a priority that adequate resources be secured for the administration of justice, the total length of proceedings is reduced and the costs of proceedings are reduced. One of the central objectives of the Government's budget proposal is to prevent crime and the renewal of crime and to ensure that criminal liability is carried out. Additional funding of EUR 5.2 million per year has been proposed to improve the implementation of criminal liability and reduce the time taken to deal with criminal proceedings. I think it is important that crime prevention is stepped up. An annual appropriation of EUR 2.5 million has been proposed for this purpose. The money will be allocated, inter alia, to the prevention of violence and sexual crime against women and to help young offenders. The specific objective is also to reduce the number of repeat offenders. It is fair that the overall reform of sexual offences legislation should be carried out. The starting point is immunity and sexual self-determination. The definition of rape is changed to a lack of consent. This is an important issue. We are also working on a programme to combat violence against women. Mr President! The reform necessary for the implementation of criminal liability is to safeguard the appropriate and adequate resources of the Prosecutor's Office. The increasing workload of the prosecutor and the increasing complexity of matters create insufficient resources for the staff to cope. The same problem is also recognised in the courts. I consider the additional EUR 2.4 million per year allocated to these to be justified, because a high-quality and efficient judiciary is also fair and serving all citizens. Also to be taken into account is the grey economy and the so-called black money that is moving around it. Under the shadow economy, crime is of a permanent nature. It is therefore important to provide adequate support for the fight against financial crime and the shadow economy. The number of police officers will be increased by 7005 per person year by 2022. This will also help partly to support the continuation of the programme to combat the shadow economy and to ensure the performance of financial investigations. A separate appropriation has also been allocated to the enforcement institution, which has been around EUR 1.3 million last year. The continuation of this additional annual allocation will also be very important for 2020. It is also necessary to take into account the adequate resources of the Court of Justice in the field of asylum and other foreign affairs. In order to assess the correct amount of resources, the relevant quantities and processing times should be closely monitored. It is important that the cases to be dealt with can be resolved within a reasonable period of time in all categories of case. It is also good to be prepared for a possible global change in the field of sudden immigration. Mr President! Over-indebtedness has increased considerably in recent years. I am pleased that attention will continue to be paid to the problems of over-indebtedness by investing EUR 2.9 million in it and efforts will be made to reduce over-indebtedness in the coming years. The availability of financial and debt counselling and the steering of these services will be stepped up by allocating an additional EUR 1 million to legal aid and lobbying circles. I also welcome the fact that information system projects are being carried forward, particularly the Aipa project, which has been a few years late. One of the objectives is productivity gains. It is important to ensure that the resources are sufficient to ensure a high-quality and adequate level of legal protection. I am pleased to say that all the important projects I have mentioned will be feasible next year, in line with the draft budget. This government resolves matters quickly, expertly and decisively by looking towards the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u132	Mr President! We are dealing here with the administration of the Ministry of Justice. Unfortunately, the Minister of Justice himself has already left. I would have asked him a few questions, but I will ask them here anyway, and hopefully the answers will come to them later. For the assembly, a strong rule of law means that it is the foundation of society, and it is also the right and security of all of us. That is why this Ministry of Justice administration is very important. By the kind of laws we legislate, we also define security in our society. I have already taken a legislative initiative in the previous period, and I renew it this season in connection with the investigation of the criminal background of workers working with children and young people. The law on the investigation of the criminal background of those working with children obliges the employer to determine the criminal background of these persons before the contract of employment is concluded, and failure to comply with the obligation is punishable. The report shall be carried out in such a way that the person selected or appointed for the task acquires a record extract of the person concerned and presents it to the employer for inspection. It is very cheap, I think it is just over EUR 10, which means that it is not a high cost. However, in day-care centres and other activities organised for children and young people, such as afternoon clubs and camps, there is a large number of people working today whose backgrounds have not been sufficiently established, taking into account the integrity and safety of children. The reason for this is that the criminal background clearance procedure does not apply to the employment and service relationships of day-care centres and other employment and service relationships that last a total of no more than three months in one year. Of course, it is understandable that there may be sudden situations and short replacement arrangements at times, but usually even replacements are familiar, often used. However, there can be no flexibility in the safety of children, but the law must protect the integrity and safety of minors in all cases. I therefore hope that there will be resources to move this bill forward, because I believe that this is not a major issue, but only a minor change to the law, when, at the moment, a criminal report is required for permanent employment. The second thing I wanted to talk about was the provision of adequate resources for courts and administrative rights in relation to matters relating to custody disputes and administrative complaints relating to custody of children. They are taking too long at the moment, and everyone can imagine that when a court decision is awaited, for example, in connection with a custody dispute, the situation is extremely ghastly and tense for both children and parents. It is not in the best interests of the child to have such long processing periods. In the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we were dealing here just a few weeks ago with the issue of post-care, that is to say the extension of the age limit for the obligation to provide child protection, and this problem was also overlooked, and we also mentioned in the report that the ministry should tackle this issue by increasing resources for child-related litigation. These were, in fact, matters that I wanted to bring to this area of administration in the Ministry of Justice, and I would like to thank again for the increase in the government's money for violence against women and domestic violence. I myself made an economic initiative for it today to have received a small amount of additional funding. It did not go through in this Chamber, but the main thing is that things are moving forward. And at the same time, for my part, I would like to wish everyone a very good and peaceful Christmas!
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u133	Mr President! As far as the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice is concerned, my serious concern is that the positive additional resources themselves are not enough. This same concern has been expressed in several speeches from both the government and the opposition. I therefore hope that, together with the rule of law, we will achieve a good result, because the increase in appropriations will not secure the activities of next year's courts and the Prosecutor's Office. It is clear from the reports we received during the autumn that the number of prosecutors and judges will be reduced. Mr President! The reality is that the length of criminal cases is already unreasonable, especially from the point of view of the victim. For example, a rape case takes one and a half years from the event to the district court. Finland has also received a number of rulings from the European Court of Human Rights on too long a period of time. The reality is also that, for example, on prosecutors' tables stacks and queues are completely unsustainable and prosecutors are stretching at the expense of their own well-being and leisure time to get their work done. The same applies to judges. The government's employer should be very interested in this imbalance between workload and staff, as the labour inspectorate has also paid attention to the workloads of the judicial administration. For example, there are 370 prosecutors in Finland and more than 90,000 cases each year, and the number is increasing at the same time as the demanding nature of matters. In the case of the prosecution institution, under-resourcement affects the fact that cases cannot be brought before a court of law, and prosecutors are increasingly taking decisions to limit pre-trial investigations and not to prosecute. In Southern Finland, for example, the prosecution is still about 50% from the police to prosecutors in future cases. If the prosecution system now only receives that increase of more than EUR 2 million, which is now in the budget of the Ministry of Justice, the number of prosecutors will decrease next year by at least 20 person-years. As indicated by the Minister's speech here, the D.A.'s office has used the appropriations to recruit staff in previous years in order to get things done. Now this money has been eaten. If the Prosecution Service were to receive EUR 4.5 million, it would remain in this year's staff, which is needed for future cases to be dealt with in some way. Even then, it cannot be said that even the head is on the surface of the water. In fact, if we want to raise the number of prosecutors to eight prosecutors per 100,000 inhabitants, the increase should be EUR 6 million. The average number of prosecutors in the Nordic countries is between 10 and 12 per 100,000 inhabitants, and in Europe the average is 11. Mr President! My second concern is the reform of the common information system for the judiciary, the Aipa project, which has already been delayed for more than three years and which has been severely overestimated. It will cost almost EUR 23 million more than estimated.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u136	Mr President! I must say that Mr Keto-Huovinen has made an excellent speech. — The current resources of our judicial system are so underbudgeted that I wonder how we in this house, where laws are laid down, will tolerate this situation any longer. I was looking at the 2017-2020 budgetary plan for the judiciary and there are only deductions. This is the imbalance, just as Keto-Huovinen here said, that we are now strongly increasing the number of policemen, but, well, if there is no one to blame? The prosecution department then visited that committee to tell us that Parliament must now tell us what is being accused and what is not being blamed, because they no longer have the opportunity to take over all matters. As has been said here, the EU has also drawn attention in its overall assessment to the sustainability of the EU's judicial system as a whole and the way justice is implemented in the various EU countries. There Finland is also constantly getting reproached. That's not a good thing for us. The parliamentary working group set up by Minister Räsänen reported in this way: ‘The working group proposes that sufficient resources should be made available for internal security and justice management and that they should be developed vigorously. “ Then, at the end of 2014, as a result of the then Justice Minister, Henriksson — and the current Justice Minister, Henriksson — the fact that it was absolutely necessary to raise the profile of the whole operation of justice, to create a completely new strategy and a basis for bringing justice resources together to such a level as to reflect the public's perception of effective legal protection. When we combine the events of the reform of the district court with the last period, where seats were significantly reduced, and when, in ten years, almost 70 seats have been removed, then we should certainly, Mr President, have some overall assessment of this situation. We can't go on like this. The judiciary cannot be subordinate to economic cycles. It must function properly and independently at all times and ensure that citizens have access to justice in all situations, in all regions and languages that are official languages in Finland. Mr President! There would be so much to say about this and the heart is so full when you think four years ago, as soon as I studied this situation in the Committee on Legal Affairs, I began to see what is happening here. At the time, we already told you that this will not lead to a good outcome. Now I would like the new government to really take this up and even do what is now being done in the parliamentary transport task force for 12 years, that is to say to extend the same to this judicial system, where all things would move in a balanced way. These information management software and others on whom much has been put here to reduce money have been delayed time and again, have not produced the results expected and have been much more expensive than what has been presented. Mr President! Merry Christmas to the President and all the members of the Legal Committee and others who have been able to keep an eye on it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u137	Mr President! A strong rule of law is the foundation of society. In all situations, care should be taken to ensure internal security and the functioning of the judicial system. The aim must be to catch the perpetrators of the crime. When the number of police officers is substantially increased, more and more criminals are being held accountable. In this way, the courts and other legal systems will also be burdened and processing times will be extended without additional resources. The coalition cannot accept the weakening of the rule of law and the legal protection of citizens. We therefore propose a permanent increase of EUR 4.5 million in the budgeting of the judicial system. Mr President! The prosecution system and the courts are already overworked and operate at the limit of their resources. The legal protection of Finns should not be jeopardised by the fact that the processing times of different lawsuits are even more excessive. In criminal matters, for example, the memory of Witnesses is weakened over time, and similarly, for example, the conditions for companies to operate may be weakened when they do not get solutions in their legal cases within a reasonable period of time. Mr President! In this context, I appeal to the Government to pursue the overall reform of Chapter 20 of the Criminal Code, i.e. the legislative reform of sexual offences, initiated by the Government of Sipilä, Minister of Justice Antti Häkkänen. The criminal policy as a whole must be turned from a paternal line of the offender to the perspective of the victim of the crime. Victim fees should be substantially increased, multiple. In the case of aggravated offences, the discount should be waived for the first time and the penalty scale should be increased throughout. A sense of justice and security must be things that will continue to be maintained in Finnish society. Justice must take place more and more often, and decisions must better reflect people's sense of justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u138	Mr President! An alternative budget for the Coalition Party would strengthen the rule of law and people's legal security by increasing the number of staff of the Prosecutor's Office and courts and by reducing processing times. In the opinion of the Coalition Party, it is unacceptable for Finland to invest much less in the rule of law than in other Nordic countries. In the longer term, this resourceisation of our judicial system must be successful in tightening up to the Nordic level. Now, however, government policy and budget will lead to a significant increase in processing times and a deterioration in the legal security of citizens. Mr President! Like Mr Heikkinen, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the government must be determined to bring justice to the finish line, Mr Antti. The total reform of sexual crime law initiated by the crackdown. The reform must be carried out with due respect for its original, important objectives, according to which the status of consent in the description of rape is strengthened and the sexual relationship with a young child is punishable as a rape offence. The term of office of the working group preparing the overall reform set up by Mr Häkkänen will end at the end of May, and I hope that the government will then take decisive action to bring the overall reform to a rapid conclusion.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u139	Mr President! I was chairman of the Section for Local Government and Health in the last parliamentary term, and it dealt with the section budget of the Ministry of Justice, and every autumn, in consultation with experts, we said that the resources of the judiciary were completely inadequate. This has led to excessively long processing times, as has been heard here. On the other hand, the problem is that the costs of legal proceedings are high and cause problems for some, especially in some middle income categories, and so the conclusion is that even the rule of law in Finland is at risk if there is no change. Every autumn, these demands for additional funding were also included in the budget report, but they are still not at the level they should be. That is why this concern, which has been expressed here about the functioning of our entire system, this pipeline, is justified and should be raised in this context — including, for example, this problem of health and safety at work, which is particularly important in the judicial system. Mr President! In the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice, there are many such offices as independent actors: there is an Ombudsman for Children, a Ombudsman for Equality, an Ombudsman for Equality, a Data Protection Officer, an Intelligence Supervisor, and now there is a new Ombudsman for the Elderly. Then, in connection with Parliament, we have the Parliamentary Ombudsman and two assistant ombudsmen. And I think there's gonna be more of these delegates, at least there's a lot of pressure. A year ago, in that section, we made a proposal to find out at the Ministry of Justice whether all these different delegates could be assembled into a certain kind of legal asylum house that would use the same support services and not have their own office as full as it is today. It could well make savings in terms of efficiency and efficiency and better service for citizens. Even now, the committee expressed a similar position as a wish. I hope it does. Mr President! I would like to thank you most warmly for this tournament endurance that you have shown in connection with this budget, and I wish you a very happy Christmas and rest and peace and a renewed enthusiasm in February when we start our discussions here again.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u140	Thank you, Mr Kankaanniemi, for the fine words. I also wish you a peaceful Christmas season.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u141	Mr President! As far as the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice is concerned, I would also like to make provision for a matter on which there is also a citizens' initiative in Parliament, namely the ban on female and female genital mutilation as a criminal offence. In support of this citizens' initiative, we have also submitted with Mrs Sarkomaa a package of legislative initiatives, two separate legislative initiatives which complement this citizens' initiative, which has not yet been drafted in its form. These legislative initiatives by the signatory and representative of Sarkomaa are intended to improve the prevention of genital mutilation, to improve the knowledge of the authorities and to strengthen penalties for acts. I hope that next year the government will also play its part in bringing forward and implementing this important legislation. In other words, female and female genital mutilation violates human and self-determination and undermines women's equality and causes health, social and sexual harm. Finland must succeed more effectively in protecting girls under the threat of mutilation and take action to combat these serious and inhuman crimes and to help victims and to bring those responsible to justice. It is estimated that as many as 3,000 girls live in Finland who are at risk of being mutilated. It is our duty to succeed in protecting them, and that is why our legislation must clearly send out a very negative message of mutilation and that criminal responsibility must be carried out. A separate law prohibiting mutilation would be a strong signal that female mutilation is a crime in Finland. At the moment, the criminal offence has not been brought up in the clearest possible way in our legislation and the criminal offence of mutilation is not always well known enough, even though the acts are against criminal law as a serious abuse. For our part, we, Mr Sarkomaa, with our legislative initiatives, want in particular to strengthen information on the criminality of these gross acts and to increase penalties for acts and to improve the accountability of those responsible. I hope that the government, as has been said, will also take this issue forward next year and that this important legislation will be put into effect by Parliament's collective efforts.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u142	Mr President! Even a long sermon will end in time, and now we are apparently beginning to bend toward the amenity. For my part, I wanted to raise a few more points about the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice. It is great that the government is dealing in many ways with one of the major problems of our country, over-indebtedness. According to the Bank of Finland, the main threats to our economy are the indebtedness of households and over-indebtedness in general, which also affects business life in various ways, for example. It is valuable that the operational expenditure of the legal aid and lobbying circles and the Consumer Disputes Board is now increased by EUR 2.9 million, and that this increase will be directed towards reducing over-indebtedness. The aim of the Government's increase in appropriations and also the general objective is to reduce over-indebtedness. It is good that the citizen should be able to receive more comprehensive guidance and assistance in managing his own economy, and here too, of course, we also need to give our children and young people, for example, more and more economic skills. And the fact that the government is also still in the process of clarifying the regulation of consumer credit and speed levers, for example, is very, very good. After all, at the time of the government negotiations, we agreed to take action to reduce over-indebtedness. Mr President! Recovery costs are also often disproportionate to the citizen and, in particular, to the small entrepreneur, and it is good that the amount of chargeable recovery costs that are the subject of recovery measures is also subject to euro caps when, for example, an entrepreneur is involved. In this way, the Government will strengthen the care of people of all ages, including in this area of administration of the Ministry of Justice. In every way, the government's proposal as a whole is good and worthy of support. For my part, too, I wish everyone a very good and peaceful Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u143	Introduce Section 36 on interest rates on government debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u144	Mr President! It is extremely important that we ensure that these government bonds are always at the lowest possible interest rate. It is therefore appropriate to consider the duration of these bonds, i.e. their maturity and then their level. After all, Finland has an extremely good situation in the sense that we can or could say in this way that we are almost paid for it if we take debt from abroad. In that sense, the cost of managing interest expenses on these debts is constantly lower and lower. There is no Minister for Finance here to answer this question, but of course we must consider whether we may have some of the old debts previously taken, for which this interest rate situation is not so good. This is something that the Minister would like to see taken care of at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u145	We shall now resume the plenary session at 12 noon today. The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move — the majority of them have already moved — to the ministerial committee. I would ask those representatives who wish to ask a question to one of the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u146	Congressman Ranne.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u147	Mr President! Question Timo Harakalle, Minister of Transport and Communications, on the direction of the Finnish railway line and the delay of the project company's application for CEF in February. Since, according to the Land Use and Construction Act and the Railway Act, the new line cannot be drawn without a regional plan, there is only one line option on the Finnish track, the current main line. Häme will not draw up an alternative direct route formula because the municipalities of the main track have a two-thirds majority in the regional councils. There is no point in twisting the guidelines to delay the start-up of planning and the application for EU subsidies. From the point of view of municipalities, every million available for the February CEF search would be really big money. I would like to ask the Minister what steps you intend to take to ensure that the Ministry recognises the facts about the only policy option under the Finnish railway planning system and the project company issue and that, in the event of the project company's late application for CEF, the Ministry of Transport and Communications,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u148	Mr President! Many thanks for the question, which is very timely. Both this Finland track and the Western link are currently negotiating a shareholder agreement, and they are scheduled to be held at the beginning of next year on a very busy schedule. At this stage, there are still more policy options for the main line in the shareholder contracts. With regard to the so-called financing of the latter at the end of February, which is therefore linked to the final financing of the fund period and the budget period which is already running out, I do not believe that there is a huge amount of money at stake.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u151	There is no need for questions to be asked now, in contrast to normal Question Hours, to have anything to do with the previous question.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u152	Congressman Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u153	Mr President! Over-indebtedness is a serious social problem. In many ways, debt difficulties are reflected in people’s everyday life and mental well-being, including health. Again this Christmas, the income gap in households will be highlighted. There's nothing missing from other people's Christmas tables. There's a lot of people missing. Others line up in Hakanniemi and many other places for Christmas meals at various occasions for the needy. In order to ease the situation of over-indebted people, we need to take a bit of political action, and that debate initiative is also waiting there on the Council of Presidents' table. The situation of those in enforcement could be eased by, for example, increasing the level of protection. It is also essential to limit the current flow of additional recovery costs by means of legislation. I ask the minister concerned: is it worth waiting for the over-indebted Finns to improve their situation in the coming year? At the same time, however, I wish the President, everyone in the Chamber and also the television viewers, a peaceful Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u154	Thank you to Mrs Elomaa for this important question. That is so, this government wants to help those Finns who have been over-indebted, and that is why we are investing in debt counselling — debt counselling will receive more resources next year — and other measures will be taken which, at least, I believe will have a positive impact on this situation. The Government’s ministerial working group has agreed that a positive credit register will be created in this country. That work will now begin the following year, and it will last, but when it does, it will also help against over-indebtedness in the future. We are now also going to table an amendment on the lower limit for the protective part of enforcement. There is a project that focuses on trying to find ways to improve the situation of over-indebted ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u155	Congressman Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u156	Mr President! Many in the garrison service are experiencing symptoms due to indoor air problems. Also The Armours Federation has plenty of this feedback. Some of these young garrisons and women have to interrupt the ministry even after a few weeks. The opening of the military service requires great mental preparation and is a major shock if the service suddenly ends because of such a reason. Every person starting the ministry has the right to perform the service in such a way that health does not suffer from indoor air problems. The same applies, of course, to the general staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u157	Mr President! This is a very important question. This is not only about the health of the garrison but also, of course, about the health of the staff of the Defence Forces, which must be taken seriously enough. Measures have already been taken in the garrison where information has been received, but when feedback on this continues to come out — and you have raised this issue here too — there is still something to be done here. I do not have accurate figures on these, but clearly there is a problem. It can be said that the defence property project is progressing, and I would see that it could also be one of the tools to address this problem, that is to say, it can be better taken care of the interests of the Defence Forces, which, of course, also include the fact that we have healthy, good facilities. — Thank you for a good question.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u158	Congressman Pelkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u159	Mr President! Loneliness is a national disease that weakens the well-being and health of Finns more than any other single factor. Loneliness also brings together other problems, such as poverty and poverty. One in five Finns suffers from loneliness from time to time and every tenth constantly. Especially holidays are difficult for lonely people. So many look forward to the approaching Christmas with fear. In particular, the increased loneliness and nausea of families with children are painful problems in Finland today. The absence of three generations of courtyards leaves too many families with children alone with educational challenges and everyday worries. In its own alternative budget, the Coalition Party presented a series of measures to prevent exclusion, especially among young people, support for families and alleviate problems. I would like to ask: what is the government going to do about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u160	Mr President! I welcome the fact that all groups have put forward measures to add to the everyday life of children, young people and families such a positive attitude. Loneliness actually affects children and young people as well as the elderly. The representative is quite right that loneliness is also one of the big Finnish sustainability deficit that is so little spoken of, loneliness when there are many other problems that ultimately even have an economic impact. Therefore, in order to reduce the social sustainability gap, action must be taken in such a way that we also recognise loneliness as a phenomenon that we should be able to combat more in society. I am not going to go into details, but I would say that we will also make a significant contribution to the provision of services for children, young people and families next year, in particular the improvement of services.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u161	Congressman Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u162	Mr President! The Finnish people have not always been able to celebrate their Christmas in peace. Today it is 80 years to the day since the battle of Pelkonenniemi ended in the Winter War, we can say, after a great miracle and many prayers to the victory of the Finns. Yesterday we learned that the Central Secretary of Defence, Kaikkonen, has authorized the Defence Forces Logistics Department to procure ammunition from the Leopard 2 battle armored car. These were obtained from Israel, and it is good news that the arms trade with Israel will not stop. After all, Israel is one of the world's leading countries in the development of weapons technology, and at the same time, as the only democracy in the Middle East, it is able to defend its citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u164	Congressman Kiljunen, Kimmo.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u165	Mr President! I'm asking for 122 MPs. We have taken a bill to control the private parking fines business. Parking supervision has become a monetary activity, which, moreover, has become increasingly dominated by foreign companies and investors. Proper parking supervision has been secondary when the goal of the parking company is to maximise its performance. There's no room for a preliminary examination. My question is: is the government going to bless the will of this 122 MPs in the middle of Christmas that we have to get rid of the fine business?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u166	Mr President! Due to the fact that we have had quite a lot of other things on the agency in this house, I have not yet had time to look into your legal initiative. Instead, this is not entirely new. I remember that some years ago there was a heated debate on this, and there is also the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Now it would be worth looking at how the line taken by the Constitutional Committee relates to this legislative initiative of yours. I assume that in the Ministry of Justice, after the holidays, we will have officials who will also be able to make this assessment, and then we will be able to return to this matter. Of course, it is important that parking in Finland is as easy and fair as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u167	Congressman Kalli.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u168	Mr President! Next week Finland will calm down for Christmas. Each of us has our own traditions and our own way of celebrating Christmas, and that's a good thing. This should be respected and respected. Christmas, however, is an important season for trade and the whole service sector. There is a lot of spending around Christmas, especially on food, consumer goods and a wide range of services. Understandably, all of this has both economic and environmental implications. It is clear that the more we favour the Finnish, the more positive the effects are. Favoring domestic food and drink as well as gifts — whether intangible or material — is an important act in favour of Finnish work and entrepreneurship, while at the same time serving environmental and climate objectives. In other words, nature also thanks the user of domestic products and services. Given the variety of effects involved, I would like to address my question to Prime Minister Marin: what could the government do?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u169	Mr President! This is an important issue that was raised here. Of course, our common goal is that there will always be successful businesses and entrepreneurs in Finland from farmers to other entrepreneurs in the future. Of course, our common goal is also to favour local production and local food in Finland and to consume supplies that are also environmentally sustainable. After all, the Government Programme is very strongly inspired by the ideas of sustainable development, by the fact that we are developing society in such a way that it is both economically, socially and environmentally sustainable. This issue, which has also been raised in this area, fits very well, and I can assure you that the government is also working well on these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u171	Was Mr. Sea a follow-up question?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u172	Mr President! I would like to say so much about the issue of parking control that I am, of course, sorry that representatives of the government party are forced to raise issues through legislative initiatives. You'd think the government could make a difference.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u175	Mr President! Thank you to the representative for a good, important question. After all, the Government has committed itself to improving the sense of safety in everyday life in all Finns throughout Finland. It is a question of improving security in all sectors. We see security as a broad concept. We believe that safety is not only generated by the work of the safety authorities, but also, for example, by the cooperation of social and health care actors, the school activities, many others.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u176	Congressman Koskela.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u177	Mr President! During this year, the media has had some heated discussions about the number of wolves and their movement around residential areas. People’s domestic animals and cattle and hunters’ dogs have been caught by wolves in different parts of Finland. At the head of the cloth, a couple of wolves set out to follow the dog walker on the nature trail. Surveillance cameras have also recorded several wolf sightings in the very center of our city. In the past week, even in the yard of the school centre, the predatory contact person verified the wolf’s tracks. We are in a situation in northern Finland where people are afraid to move around in nature at night, children keep driving to school and the general atmosphere is tense and also serious. We were with Minister Leppa. At an expert meeting of the Natural Resources Agency in November. The wolf expert gave us a new term for “garden wolf ” wolves who visit Finland in our yards in different parts of Finland. Mr Leppä,the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development,responsibly responds to the following:‘the need for a wolf
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u178	There are wolves behind the windows.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u179	Mr President! I still say the same thing: no one has to put up with the wolf in the yard. The wolf belongs to Finnish nature, but it does not belong in the yard. It is not supposed to pose a danger and it is not supposed to cause more damage to the hobbies than to the livestock sector, not to mention the fact that children are put at risk through it. We have two lines on which we can currently influence the wolf population. The second is police removal permits, which are measures to be taken under police orders when the situation is there. The second is the damage-based permits issued by the game administration to remove the identified wolf causing the damage. We want back a stock management hunt that will enable us to limit the number of wolf populations in areas where there is too much.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u182	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u183	Mr President! According to today's news, the Supreme Administrative Court does not grant an environmental permit to the bioproduct plant designed for Kuopio. This decision is confusing and of economic importance. It takes the foundation away from Finland as an attractive investment country and waters down the economic recovery. News is also bad for Finnish forest owners. The permit already granted by the Regional Administrative Agency to the factory was strictly conditional. However, it was not enough, but the Supreme Administrative Court rejected the environmental permit on the grounds of the ecological status of Kallavesi.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u186	Mr President! Representative Sankelo, we still have the tripartite doctrine of power in Finland. The judiciary has expressed its position on the situation with the voice of the Supreme Administrative Court. Politicians must not change that decision by their own actions. Of course, we can discuss it, but I will not go into any way to question the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court. As Minister for Economic Affairs, I regret that. It would have been a big investment, a job-creating investment, but, on the other hand, we should not go now to generalise this decision. I trust the Finnish judicial system and the judiciary, and each case will be dealt with as a whole. This was a single decision, but I understand very well that this will be a question for foreign investors as to what is the attitude in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u187	Congressman Rydman.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u188	Mr President! A few weeks ago, we had the previous government falling short of trust, but then the ministers and the Vice-President changed seats a little, and suddenly, again, trust was found and the same government was re-established. Well, the circular economy, I suppose, too, and some sort of circular economy can be regarded as being that the government finally decided to introduce the same government program that the previous one had had.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u189	Minister of Finance Kulmuni, can you do that?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u190	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Rydman, for the question. This government, led by Prime Minister Marin, follows the same government programme inherited from the government led by Antti Rinte. Of course, the government programme is quite ambitious in many respects, including in terms of employment or climate objectives. Of course, as Minister of Finance, I am particularly interested in the employment objectives and also in the situation of the longer curve that this country is in a good state of public finances for the next generations. Yesterday, for example, when the Ministry of Finance reported on its own updated calculations, those changes are actually not very big compared to what we have already assessed. The fact that the public finances are in balance in 23 C.E. calls for progress in the employment rate, which the government is doing exactly according to its timetable, and next spring's spending limits and the autumn budget debate will of course be crucial here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u191	Congressman Asell.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u192	Mr President! A recent and extensive study by the National Institute for Health and Welfare, which surveyed Finnish sports habits, reported that a large proportion of our people do not exercise at all during their leisure time. As many as one third of the respondents replied in this way. This is a rather worrying piece of information, because it is expensive for our society. Mobility is estimated to cost between €3 billion and €7 billion in different ways of calculating. Costs come from sick leave for working-age people and disability pensions, and also from the cost of many different lifestyle diseases. Exercise should be included enough in our everyday lives every day and for people of all ages. It is a well-being hobby in general. The question is, how do we make people move better? What means does the government have to do this? Of course, the power of the example is large, so it would be interesting to hear how, for example, the most famous Finn in the world, namely Prime Minister Mari, takes care of her condition. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u193	Mr President! This was a question I could not foresee, but, of course, in my own life, as with so many of us in life, the presence of the family brings much prosperity and helps us all to endure. I have a daughter who is almost two years old, and of course the time spent with her brings a great deal of mental well-being as well as that physical well-being, namely, playing with a two - year - old does get you right. Of course, whenever possible, I also move in nature like so many other Finns. It is important not only for physical condition but also for mental well-being. It is good that we appreciate this beautiful nature that we have in Finland. It is a matter of pride for us and action is being taken to ensure that this continues to be the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u194	Minister Kosonen would also like to give an example of his own.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u195	Mr President! For example, walking the stairs is an excellent hobby and habit, and listen, it is quite quiet on the parliamentary stairs, and I would like to see more of us partners there. We have to make it easy for everyone to move. That's our government's goal, too. In other words, for example, walking and cycle paths must be such that it is easy to go and see the example there. Similarly, in construction the very stairs should be such a preferred option, not an elevator, and not in the way that the stairs need to be searched somewhere. We will have more money for recreational strategies and more money for these walking and cycling routes, and then we will build it in Finland, which is also part of the exercise. In the afternoons of children and young people, each child and young person will have the opportunity to choose a hobby related to exercise, among other things. We're adding more company support.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u196	Congressman Kivela.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u197	Mr President! Animal rights are an issue that is easily left behind in this Parliament in all other matters. However, it is not right for animals to lose sight of the promotion of animal welfare, but it is also not in harmony with the will of the people. In Finland as well as in Europe as a whole, people want decision-makers to work for animal welfare. The improvement of animal welfare has been one of the objectives of this government and was also one of the objectives of the EU Presidency. Now, from the beginning of the week, the EU Council adopted animal welfare conclusions prepared by the Finnish Presidency. With this decision, we can contribute to animal welfare at European level, and Finland received praise from non-governmental organisations that promote the status of animals, and I would also like to thank the government for this. I would now like to ask the government: how does the government contribute to this objective of promoting animal welfare?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u198	Mr President! It is true that on Monday, at the Council meeting, we reached conclusions, unanimous ones, and this will make a significant contribution to animal welfare throughout Europe. There is much to do, it is quite clear, but animal welfare has not been forgotten at all. It is present all the time on my own desk, and that is what we are working on. We are committed to the immediate reform of our animal welfare law under the Marin regime. That work has come a long way, and hopefully next year we will be here in Parliament with this proposal. I can't promise that exactly, but that's our goal. Together with Sweden, we are the leading countries in the world as animal welfare countries,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u199	Congressman Ronkainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u200	Mr President! The EU Commission is currently considering banning lead shotguns in wetlands. The definition would be so strict that in Finland it would cover most of our country. This issue is being shuddered at the EU Commission, possibly without parliamentary scrutiny. The first step envisaged by the EU would concern shotguns. In the second phase, the ban would also apply to lead bullets. For example, there are no alternatives to lead replacements for small-caliber weapons, except perhaps gold. If the ban on lead shooting were to take place, it would be unduly difficult for hunters, gunmen and reservers alike. In addition, frost would be a significant factor in the ammunition industry in Finland. I would like to ask the government: what measures are you taking to prevent the EU's planned ban on lead ammunition in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u201	Mr President! Really here a lot of people are wondering who this thing belongs to, and so it just gets out of here that it belongs to me. — The explanation, ladies and gentlemen, is that we are dealing here with toxic substances for our part and therefore with matters which are essential to human health. In that regard, we have followed this question at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and surprisingly, although not everyone is yet familiar with it, it has also risen to my desk in this short period of time. The representative is quite right that we are going to have to look very closely at these measures from the Commission. The situation is that this current policy of the Commission is not necessarily in line with the long-term position of Finland. The reason is that it is precisely in this proposal for a restriction that we are going to go for a rather tight line.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u202	Congressman Jokinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u203	Mr President! Drug use and drug-related crime are a growing and serious problem in our society, but in particular it is a personal tragedy for those who get hooked on drugs. Last year, more people died from drugs in Finland than in traffic: 261 people died from drugs in Finland last year. Ministers Ohio, Andersson and Pekonen have publicly used pro-drug statements and reported that the criminalisation of drug use should be abolished.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u206	Minister Kiuru has his hand up again, but let's give it to Prime Minister Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u207	Mr President! I myself do not interpret the speeches made by ministers as drug pros or substance abuse pros.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u208	Congressman Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u209	Mr President! Prime Minister Marin, in your mid-term debate on Tuesday, you said that the opposition, and in particular the coalition, should be ashamed. Obviously you meant it when they are in the same middle of the matter with the Finns. At least I saw it. The only thing that I think should be ashamed of is the Secretary of State, Mr Haavisto, who did not answer all the questions. The Movement Now thinks we should be able to work together with everyone. This is the Christmas season I ask you: what do you think the criteria are, who can you work with?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u210	Mr President! As far as I understand, Secretary of State Haavisto was in this chamber until late in the evening answering.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u213	Representative Pitko,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u214	Mr President! The safety of everyday life is part of a good and happy life, but unfortunately in many homes there is fear, especially now that the holy ones of Christmas are approaching. One of the major threats to everyday security is home violence. At Christmastime, these violent situations often increase when people spend a lot of time at home. It is true that one in three women in Finland has experienced intimate partner violence — one in three. For a long time, civil society players have been calling for concrete measures to combat sexual violence. It has been difficult to apply for assistance, and services have been difficult to access in the regional context. In fact, the government has promised to tackle violence in close relationships. I would like to ask the government: what will be done about this soon?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u215	Mr President! Mr Pitko raises a very important issue. Of course it is, it is certainly the case that we all understand that Christmas should be a Christmas peace for every family, and women and girls and children should be able to safely celebrate Christmas. Unfortunately, this is not the case in this country. The Government is aware that violence against women occurs in Finland, far too much, and that is why the government is now preparing a programme to combat violence against women. We will also be reporting on violence against women. That post is now in place, and next year we will have a person who will monitor how this development continues and will certainly also propose measures. So this is the kind of thing I hope,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u216	Congressman Kaunto.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u217	Mr President! I have concerns about the future prospects of our children and young people, and this concern is highlighted by the many, many messages that I get from grandparents about the bad condition of their grandchildren. I am actually reassured by the fact that I know that in this Chamber we all share this sorrow. One of the biggest things we can do for our young people, if not the biggest, is to combat climate change. With effective climate measures, we will make our children and young people’s prospects safer and ensure that there is a future perspective at all. [From the Group of the Fundamental Finns: Nothing but the green ranks!]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u219	Mr President! Thank you for your question. After all, the business support debate has been in this country for quite a long time and for several parliamentary years, and it may be worth remembering that we have about EUR 1 billion of direct business aid — that is, EUR 1 billion of direct aid — but, as the representative here has pointed out, there are quite a lot of different tax advantages or lower tax rates. When we go to the grocery store or the pharmacy, we get the products at a slightly lower VAT rate. Do you feel that you are receiving corporate support? I doubt it. What the government has in mind is that we have made savings of EUR 100 million in aid to businesses — unfortunately not many governments have been able to do so — and we are still going to look into whether there are any environmentally harmful subsidies which could possibly lead to savings. This work will be done, but the government has already made the savings in business support under the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u220	Congressman Immonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u221	Mr President! The Finnish Central Crime Police, Protection Police, Customs and Border Guard recently released a PTR situation report to the Finnish State Administration on cross-border crime. It shows that crime caused by immigration and free movement is a burden on Finland in many ways. Over the last few years, our country has, among other things, spread international criminal groups with a significant capacity for violence. I would like to ask the minister concerned: what concrete measures is the government now going to take in the fight against cross-border crime? This is an extremely serious matter and the government is now required to take concrete and effective measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u222	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Immonen, for the important question. It is precisely so that Europeans also know that international organised crime across borders is a truly growing phenomenon. It has also been identified here in Finland, but it is also the case that we are not in a situation where perhaps many other countries are at present, and that is why it is very important for us to learn from the experiences that exist in other parts of Europe. This means continuous exchange of information, including through Europol's cooperation. Finnish experts are there, and they are constantly bringing information to Finland's head. In the fight against organised crime, of course, it is necessary to constantly increase the number of police officers here, that there are also enough people on the investigative side and that we can also invest in the international dimension. We need security authorities to a large extent. As you well mentioned, PTR cooperation is not just about the police, it is about strengthening the capabilities of all our security authorities — and here, among other things, the border guard's lack of resources that they have suffered for a long time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u223	Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u224	Mr President! Christmas celebrations include traditional Finnish Christmas meals for most of us, and hopefully there will be local food on the table for as many as possible, especially Finnish food. Finnish pig producers have been in a crisis of profitability for a long time, and we know that African swine fever has at present caused a route to China to export Finnish pig meat, among other things. On the other hand, here in Europe at the moment, we do not get much pork from other European countries. I would have asked the corresponding minister: firstly, how to ensure that swine fever does not spread to Finland, and then, secondly, that we really have enough ham on everyone's Christmas table, that is, that we have enough domestic production to meet the demand for what is at present both at home and abroad by export?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u225	Mr President! I agree with what Mrs Essayah said that hopefully all Finns will have Finnish food at the Christmas table. African swine fever is a terrible disease. It's a deadly disease for pigs. There's no cure for that. The only way is to have the best possible hygiene and to ensure that pathogens, more animals than meat products, than tourism, do not spread the disease. Therefore, the actions we have taken here in Finland at the recently spoken Border Guard, Customs, airports, ports as well as passenger instructions underline that it is not accidentally imported into this country. The second point is the exchange of information, as in the previous subject. We have a very good and comprehensive Europe-wide exchange of information on the situation. Similarly, with the countries neighbouring the European Union, we are constantly exchanging information from the authorities on what the situation is. Then there is this trade policy part,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u227	Irade the Talman! Under det Senaste året har det het mycket som drabbat skärgården hårt. För det första har kattemyndigheterna på tviveaktiga grunder chockhöjt fastighetsskatterna på mark som i practicen är utan värde. Samtidigt har Posti meddelat att delar av skärgården ska få post bara en gång i veckan, trots att det är just dessa områden som är mest beroende av leveranser från fastlandet.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u228	Thank you, Mr Bergqvist, for the question. I hope and believe that I am not the only minister responsible for island affairs, but you asked about postal services and ferry connections. It was just recently, in fact, that I had been in my current position for the day, when I was able to give the green light for the first time that more appropriations are being made available for quay structures that are closely linked to ferry connections in the archipelago, so that quite sparsely populated island municipalities are better equipped for services. This means, in general terms, that the island is in the government's mind, and the universal service obligations of Post also apply to the archipelago. It is clear that when we talk about all areas of Finland having to be inhabited, we often think of northern Finland and eastern Finland as remote areas, but it also means areas behind challenging journeys such as the Finnish archipelago.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u229	Congressman Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u230	Mr President! This week we have been discussing the draft budget of the State, which, with its yellow colour, but above all with its content, gives our whole people hope and light. The government is now strengthening the care of people of all ages throughout the country, supporting entrepreneurship and agriculture, more money being spent on basic bus maintenance. We have also voted this week on the budget amendments. According to the calculation of the Parliamentary Information Service, the changes proposed by the representatives of the Coalition Party to the state budget would increase government expenditure by nearly 2 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u231	Mr President! Thank you, Mrs Aittakummu, for the question. Today, when we have voted and tomorrow we will continue to vote on a number of votes, such as during the whole week, admittedly from a party that has traditionally highlighted responsible state finances, it has been rather surprising that spending increases have been so high that almost 2 billion compared to what the government is finally proposing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u232	Congressman Keto-Hovinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u233	Mr President! Some 20 percent of young people suffer from mental disorders, or one in five. This means in the class of 30 students that there are about six young people who suffer from varying degrees of mental disorders. Among all age groups, the concentration of young people, i.e. those aged 12 to 18, is currently increasing most, and the proportion of young people has increased eightfold. In Finland, the total cost of mental disorders is 11 billion a year, i.e. a major public health problem. Despite this, mental health services are in serious trouble. One way to improve the situation would be to warmly support a therapy guarantee that speeds up access to treatment, for which funding is provided in our alternative budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u234	Mr President! One of the government's objectives in terms of education, education and youth policy is that Finnish children and young people should be better off, and just as the representative points out, if we want to catch up in time with the nausea of young people and offer the support that children and young people also deserve, preventive work in schools, community student and student care, will play a crucial role in this. This government is allocating 29 million additional funding to strengthen student and student care during this term of office, and we have promised that in the same context we will also provide binding dimensions for student and student care, both for primary and secondary schools. At the moment, we do not have any binding dimensions in terms of preventive services for pupils and students, only national recommendations.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u235	Congressman al-Taee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u236	Mr President! Now I see under Christmas when I hear that guns should be bought in Israel, [Base Finns Group : Right! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u237	Mr President! I will answer, although I am not the Minister of Finance, when the quick-lease business is on the Attorney General's desk. — — — — In the Government Programme, we have a policy that the Financial Supervisory Authority will be the body that will also follow our quick-lease companies in the future. This change will also have an impact on the fact that we are better able than we are today to take care of and monitor the kind of activities these companies carry out in practice. It's important. After all, the previous government made a good legislative amendment restricting the interest rate that quick-vip companies are allowed to ask for their products, and now the government is monitoring how this legislation works in practice, and if there is any reason to do so, it will also be considered whether it is possible to market quick-vipps.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u238	To both of the two largest opposition parties, I will give the questions. Please ask me some good, Christmasy questions. — Representative Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u239	Mr President! I think it is reasonable to have the floor if there is such a half-hearted attack on the party. Firstly, to the centre: the coalition has made a responsible alternative budget that takes less debt than the government's proposal. Madam Prime Minister, I do not think that half the truth should be given about your position as Prime Minister. I think it's classy. Since the beginning, the Coalition Party has felt that children should be helped. We are really happy that two young children are on their way to their homeland. It's excellent. We were already in the Sipilä government last spring when we decided to help the children but not the adults who went there themselves. If an adult does not want to give up his child, we have to continue the negotiations with the locals, see if the custody can be done. I don't think it's classy of you to give me the impression that we don't want to help the kids. Mr President! Maybe it's good to have a Christmas break.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u240	Mr President! I read very carefully the interview that the Democrat published where you...
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u241	Last Christmas question, Chairman of the Finnish Parliament Group, representative Tavio.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u242	Mr President! A year ago, under the parliamentary elections, everyone assured me that they were being kind. Since then, there have been accusations that someone was naughty. The opposition believes that the government has been naughty and that the opposition has been naughty. As this issue is unclear, I would like to suggest that the measurement of naughtyness is outsourced to a top-class intelligence centre in Lapland, once again receiving a huge secret budget from state resources. As the operating model for this secret intelligence centre located at the Korantunturi, I still suggest that a massive number of agents called elfs are walking behind people's windows and with eye and hearing observations to investigate the behaviour of citizens. As the control area of the North Pole, I will continue to present the whole globe. The final report of the inquiry is given annually to directly monitored target persons by Santa, who is the head of the intelligence center, and he rewards well-behaved people with generous gifts. We wish the whole Parliament a peaceful Christmas, and I ask the government: will you give full authority to Santa Claus, who performs a special task?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u243	Mr President! A lot of very important questions have been asked during this Question Time and they have dealt with important themes. Furthermore, I would of course like to thank Mr Tavio for this excellent last question, which I believe will be of interest to Finnish children and children-minded people. The questioner raised the issue of Santa Claus' powers, and I can assure you that although there is no separate record of these in the Government Programme, the government will fully uphold Santa Claus's powers. In this context, it is also worth mentioning the good infra-investments of the government, which, for their part, support the work of Santa Claus here. I also assure the questioner that we do not intend to change the colour of Christmas, for example. So Santa’s nun will remain red and six will remain green in the future. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u244	It is easy to end this Question Time with these wishes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-19-ps-86.u245	Before I say the date of the next sitting, I would like to say that thank you for this good debate. Have a nice and peaceful Christmas time for everyone!
