ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u1	The second item on the agenda is the election of the Committee on Intelligence. I note that the election is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u2	The members of the Committee on Intelligence will be informed that the committee will meet for organisation at 4.15 p.m. in the Section Room E428 of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u3	The 3rd item on the agenda is the Prime Minister's announcement of the Finnish EU Presidency's programme; Presidency of the Council of the European Union from 1 July to 31 December 2019. After the speech by Prime Minister Antti Rinte, I will give the answers in the order that I have considered. Responses will be reserved for the plenary session by V-button. A maximum of 2 hours will be reserved for the proceedings.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u4	Mr President! In due course, the founding fathers of the European Union were created in war-torn and divided ground. However, the founders were united by a common vision and belief in the future. The expectations for European cooperation were great, as they contributed to the peace and stability of the continent as a whole, to the unity of Europe. For decades, the EU has met these expectations. Cooperation has deepened because the Member States have realised that we are more together. There is no comparison with this unique cooperation of nations in the rest of the world. ‘Unique’is the root of the word to describe Today, when Germans drive across the border to France to visit their friends for dinner, it is hard to believe that these two countries waged war against each other in the 20th century twice bitterly and bloodyly. In the continent, which until 30 years ago was divided by barbed wire and walls, a whole generation has been born and grown up for which freedom of movement is the only thing they know. The continent, which suffered the horrors of totalitarianism and war and witnessed a shocking genocide 80 years ago, is today the strongest defender of democracy, human rights and peace around the world. Our unique story gives cause for pride, but it also brings with it a great responsibility, because new expectations for the EU are now under way. The guarantee of stability and peace remains at the heart of the EU, but other major questions of humanity also await solutions. Europe's declining economic growth has not only increased unemployment and inequality but also created a breeding ground for populism and extremism. The values at the heart of the EU, the rule of law, human rights, equality and democracy have been challenged. The unity of the EU has also been affected by the UK's EU separation. On the other hand, the Brexit process has also shown that it is better to find solutions to complex issues together with others, not alone. We have once again been reminded of the fact that there are no simple answers to complex questions — no, even if someone irresponsibly says so. The EU is based on the idea of multilateral, rule-based cooperation. A system in which the rules of the game are created jointly, not as a result of a stronger or greater dictation, is in the interests of a small country such as Finland. This is what Finland can best contribute to as part of the EU. I would stress that it is up to us whether Finland is seen as a small or a large EU country. The more active we are, the larger we will be seen, and if anything is in Finland's interest. In the midst of the transformation of the international system, it is the EU that is needed to defend multilateralism. The EU of the 2020s has the opportunity to meet citizens' expectations by taking leadership as a solution to the major challenges facing mankind. Climate change is the most important of these, and therefore in the fight against climate change ‘yes but’ policy in Finland, the EU and the globalist. Mr President! As an EU Presidency, Finland will have an impact on the future of the EU. It must be socially, ecologically and economically sustainable. According to the slogan of our Presidency, the goal is ‘a sustainable Europe, a sustainable future’. The central focus of the Finnish Presidency is the global climate leadership of the EU. It means commitment to climate neutrality by 2050. The aim is to have the main elements of this plan agreed by the European Council by the end of 2019. Measures to combat climate change must be taken in a socially fair way. They will be visible in all sectors of society. Sustainable growth and employment must be created, for example through the bio-economy and the circular economy. Active industrial policy and the development of the service sector and the digital economy will provide the basis for a new-day economy. This will make the EU the most competitive and socially sound low-carbon economy in the world. Sustainability is also linked to the common values of the EU. Human rights, freedom, democracy, equality and the rule of law are values for which commitment is a prerequisite for membership of the EU. Finland wants to strengthen and develop the EU Rule of Law instrument. We need to find more effective ways of ensuring that common values are respected in the EU. Continue negotiations on ways to better and more closely link the reception of EU funds and respect for the rule of law. Mr President! Jean Monnet, the founding father of the EU, once said that a united Europe would not bring countries together but would bring people together. People and their needs must be at the heart of EU cooperation. The EU works best when we increase people's well-being and security and reduce inequalities. European cooperation must remove fears and offer opportunities and create a future for people living in the midst of change — that is, to continue their unique story for people, bringing people together. This is why Finland, during its Presidency, stresses the strengthening of the EU's social dimension and its contribution to education and knowledge. The internal market is at the heart of the European Union and must be fair to all workers. The dumping of working conditions must not be a competitive factor. It makes sense to jointly assess the needs of new forms of work and, if necessary, update the rules to reflect the present day. The internal market will not work without its central principle: the free movement of people, goods and services. Europeans must have the right to work in another EU country. High knowledge provides the basis for the success of European people. Student exchanges and student cooperation must be strengthened. We need to look at the creation of a European super-university operating on a network basis and the development of a European researcher exchange, Super-Erasmus. Mr President! Only a strong enough EU can defend European values and European interests in a changing world. The EU must pursue the role of global value leader, which requires active dialogue and cooperation with partners worldwide. Rule-based free trade can ensure that the rules of international trade show what is important to us, such as sustainable development and workers' rights. If the EU is not involved in defining these rules, it will be done by someone else. We Europeans are not alone in the world. Support for stability and sustainable development in Africa is essential if we are to meet the challenges posed by climate change, population growth and migration management. The partnership with Africa will be developed in a more equal direction under the Finnish Presidency in a mutually beneficial way. Mr President! People also expect the EU to guarantee comprehensive security. Digital security and the fight against hybrid threats will become more important here as a whole. During its Presidency, Finland is seeking to strengthen the fight against hybrid threats – we have strong expertise in this regard. The results of this cooperation to date include the creation of a hybrid competence centre in Helsinki. Finland aims to set up a permanent Council working group on the fight against hybrid threats, which will improve the coordination of the work of the various policy sectors. Mr President! In the run-up to the Midsummer Summit, we adopted a plan setting out the priorities for EU policy for the next five years. Finland’s handprint is reflected in the new priorities. Responsible climate policy, sustainable development, the social dimension, the defence of the rule of law and security are matters of national importance. Finland is the first President to start implementing this plan. Strong leadership, the ability to negotiate and find compromises are expected from the presidency. Ensuring EU unity is in everyone's interests. It should be borne in mind that EU policy is a domestic policy which should be discussed regularly in the great Chamber of Parliament. The Government will therefore issue a European political report after the EU presidency. Mr President! Finally, I would like to remind you of something that is sometimes forgotten. In the case of controversial issues, it is often said: ‘There is a European Union decision that has been taken and a decision that has been taken. “ In times of difficulty, it is said that the EU should act quickly. To those who speak in this way, I would like to remind them that they speak of themselves. The EU is not there, the EU is here. The EU is not there; the EU is us. This government is committed to Finland being an active influencer. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u5	Let's have a conversation. I will give you one minute's speaking time. I would ask those Members who wish to speak to stand up and press the V button. — First speech, chairman of the large committee, Mr Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u6	Mr President! It is good that Finland, as the EU presidency, emphasises the nature of the EU as a community of values. We often think of the EU primarily as a market, but it is good to bear in mind that, from its starting point, the EU really is a community of values that seeks to safeguard peace, the rule of law, human rights, the fundamental pillars of free press and other democratic societies and a viable environment. Today, climate change mitigation is one of the most important tasks for the future of world peace. I wish the Finnish Government every success in its efforts to tighten up the EU's climate targets and in the fact that the EU is carbon neutral in 2050 and also in 2030 the climate target will be tightened. It is also a good thing that Finland stresses the rule of law and that, in order to get EU funding from EU Member States, action must be taken in accordance with what has been required of the applicant countries to respect the rule of law.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u7	Mr President! In this way, this programme continues the familiar line of Finnish EU policy, that there really is no line. Finland's EU policy has always been naive and without lobbying, and this programme has now dropped the slightest sense and backbone that was found in parliamentary cooperation during the last period. From there, all lobbying matters have been cleared into the margin. This climate policy, which has been put at the top of the agenda, does not in any way serve Finland’s national interest. I should have brought up a whole lot of other things. Let us talk about transport links in Europe and other issues relating to economic growth, which has recently turned to the lowest level in Europe. We cannot do better in the euro area than Germany can. That is why the economy should grow in Europe. Values have been raised here, but the right values have not been raised, namely that there are many great cultures and nation states in Europe that should not be destroyed by multiculturalism and globalism. It's supposed to be a lead for us more than anything.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u8	Madam President! As has been said here, the EU is a community of values, a promoter and advocate of the rule of law for democracy and human rights. These fundamental values of the Union must be protected, particularly in this time when the fundamental values of democracy, human rights and the rule of law can be well seen both in some countries of the European Union and globally. These themes of the Finnish Presidency in relation to the EU's global climate leadership – as Prime Minister Rinne said, the European Union is the most competitive and socially cohesive low-carbon community in the world – are important and forward-looking both for Finland and for Europe as a whole. I ask the Finns: The success of the Finnish Presidency of the European Union is an important patriotic effort, and we will only succeed if we are united, or do you see this in a different way?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u9	Madam President! This is a very important issue. Unfortunately, we must start with a slight criticism of the fact that Parliament was able to get to grips with this programme less than two hours ago. We often wonder in Finland why the EU debate is muffled, and here is another indication of this. I hope that the government will take a better stance and that Parliament will be given greater consideration. But for the document itself. I have to say that when the coalition is the most pro-European party in Finland, I am pleased to note that this programme is very pro-European. That is the way it should be, because Finland and Finns benefit most from the fact that the European Union is united and strong. Now the Finnish Presidency comes at a time where there is a new Parliament, a new Commission will be elected, a programme will be drawn up for Europe. It is the place of influence, and the government must be determined. I'd like to ask you what the priorities are. What does the government want to note about these good things? What is the government really going to do about these things? There's a show right now for the entire four-year period.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u10	Mr President! Thank you, Prime Minister, for a good introduction. These five-year strategic programme objectives, which have just been adopted by the EU, are very much in line with this programme of the Finnish Presidency. Now Finland is expected to implement well this five-year strategic programme. I would like to raise five key elements of that programme: First of all, growth and growth in product development and innovation. Then the development of the internal market, in particular the development of the digital single market and trade policy. In security, the resolution of the migration crisis in internal security to the end and the fight against terrorism. In the field of defence cooperation, I would stress that Finland has done a very good job and has cooperated well with France. I would hope that good cooperation with France will continue. Programme of eight parliamentary parties agreed on last year in the field of climate change
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u11	Madam President! It is a pleasure to note that the issues of climate change are strongly on the agenda, and it is also important for Finland to highlight the threats to biodiversity. Biodiversity is impoverished at an unprecedented rate and, according to the IPBES panel, is affected by many man-made activities. Droughts and water problems are increasing, fellings are excessive in certain areas, and mining and quarrying also impoverish biodiversity. It is very important that we invest strongly in the circular economy. Secondly, I would like to highlight knowledge and education and research activities which have also been heavily invested in outside the EU. This is what I hope and believe to be strongly visible in our European priorities. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u12	Madam President! The issues close to us need to be resolved close, on the one hand, cross-border solutions to cross-border problems are needed. One such cross-border problem is tax havens, legal and illegal tax evasion. It's a cancer that eats the bottom of the welfare nations. Even within the EU there is tax competition towards the bottom, the features of tax havens. The EU must be a strong player against the tax haven economy, and Finland must be at the forefront of this. Madam President! Climate change is undoubtedly another very large cross-border issue. The EU must be a pioneer in the fight against climate change so that global warming does not exceed one and a half degrees. We therefore need bold action from the EU countries, and Finland must be a strong player in this. The Government Programme and this EU Presidency programme offer a good opportunity for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u13	Mr President! Each party has its own emphasis on what kind of Europe is being sought, and that will certainly be reflected in today's debate. In this programme I drew attention, among other things, to one sentence — I did not get that program until after 12 o'clock, and it is a 17-page program so that if we haven't had time to get to know everything yet, please forgive me. In any event, one of the sentences states that ‘the Finnish President has taken forward technical discussions on common deposit protection’ — technical discussions — and I would like to know what this might mean. We know that the prerequisite for sharing the risks of the banking sector must be adequate risk reduction, and the winding-up and consolidation of non-viable banks should be carried out first, otherwise there is a high risk that well-managed Nordic banks will have to pay for those who have failed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u14	Irade the Talman! Prioriteringen är att stärka de gemensamma värdena och rättsstatsprinten, så börjar ordförandeprogrammet. Det är en mycket viktig politisk signal i tider då vi sett att dessa värderingar har variant och är hotade i flera EU-länder. Därför är jag mycket glad att etta är en hörnsten i vårt ordförandeprogram. European Union av värderingar som ska respektera democracy, Mänskliga rättigheter och rättsstaten. EU får inte av medlemsländer behandlas som en bankautomat, pengar och respekt för rättsstaten måste gå hand i hand. EU har inte så många formella verktyg att faktiskt se till att dessa rättsstatsprinter effecterlevs i practicen. Här har enskilda medlemsländer en ännu starkare öjlighet att ta en starkare roll, och därför vill jag fråga statsminister Rinne och EU-minister Tuppurainen hur ni ser på möjligheten att använda ordförandeskapet för att också få enskilda lännder att göra ännu mer bilateralt för att säkersta rautststsprincipen gentemot de länder där dessa värden och principer är hotade.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u15	Madam President! The clock is ticking, and soon the hand will swing and Finland will become the presidency of the EU at an exceptionally important historic moment, in a situation which is an institutional site for the EU and provides Finland with an exceptional opportunity for leadership and an opportunity to bring our views and values to this European debate. When we enter into this debate both here at home and in the European arena, we will be well prepared to do so. We have not shaken this programme either, ladies and gentlemen, from any sleeve, but this has been carefully prepared — thanks to the previous Prime Minister, Mr Sipilä — in cooperation with all the parties during the previous Parliament, and on the basis of it, the nine party paper contains all the elements from which this new Prime Minister, Mr Rinne, has been drawn up for the EU Presidency's programme. This is a good basis on which we can build Finland's effectiveness in the EU's operations. We are going to be at the forefront of the European Union and thereby implement the will of the Government Programme to make Finland as a whole bigger in the world. What are the priorities, you asked, Mr Orpo? These priorities are clearly described in the introduction to this programme. First of all, we will emphasise the rule of law and I thank the representatives that you, more of you, have brought this up. We will emphasise the competitiveness of the EU together with the social dimension. We will take a strong position on the EU's climate policy leadership, and we will take care of the overall security of our citizens — the issue of which the representative will: I'm sorry, sir, but I'm sorry, sir, but I'm sorry, sir. How do we put these priorities into practice as living and objectives that will then be realised? Firstly, the rule of law is an essential part of European cooperation as a whole, of the EU's capacity to act and of its institutions. But it is not just something that is out there, but we can make a concrete contribution to this objective, Mr Löfström. First of all, there is Article 7 as described in the EU Treaty, and we will follow the procedures in this respect with Poland and possibly with Hungary. Secondly, we will build a rule of law mechanism within the framework of the financial frameworks, and thirdly, we will develop the EU's rule of law dialogue, which is an annual, positive, positive debate on the rule of law. The social dimension will also be emphasised because it is good to say to the public that Europe is not just an internal market project. The EU is not only about the competitiveness of the economy, but also about jobs and better social security. And climate policy: we were certainly disappointed that the Heads of State or Government were not yet able to agree on a long-term climate strategy, a carbon-neutral Europe by 2050, but hopefully this will be the case during our presidency. Finally, citizens' safety. That's what it's all about for Finland, isn't it? That is why we joined the European Union. The EU is a security community, and it must be comprehensive in such a way that citizens feel it in their everyday lives, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u16	Madam President! Europe is not synonymous with the EU. Europe is a continent and consists of nations, a number of nations. The EU is an administrative system. This could also be internalized by the President-in-Office, Mr Orpo. Unfortunately, the EU no longer represents Europe; the EU only represents itself. It represents the elite's oligarchy, and it represents corporatism. What do we need? We need more independent nation states. We need the independence of these Member States. Finland’s own nation state is also the best way to protect the Finnish way of life, security and values. We should defend these Finnish Christian values, these Western values created by the change in the Enlightenment Age. Internationalism is important now and in the future, but we must remember that there are many problems in the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u17	Madam President! This shows a great difference in our attitude towards the European Union in Finland. We must see and acknowledge, Mr Tavio, that Finland's independence, if you think of security, has hardly ever been as strong as it is today as a member of the European Union. The European Union brings us security, it brings us prosperity, growth
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u18	Reply, Prime Minister Rinne, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u19	Mr President! I would like to remind you that, at the time when the European Union was to be built, it left the coal and steel cooperation after two world wars, with the aim, as has been done, of having peace and stability in Europe. This has been a very central objective at the time for this cooperation — to remove the economic risk factors that create wars, create instability — and that is what the European Union has succeeded in doing. Then it is worth remembering that the structures of the European Union are structures of cooperation. It is the decision-making power conferred on it by the independent nation states in these matters, and the sovereign nation states have chosen to hand over that decision-making power. The EU is not a clump that hijacks power from the outside; it is a joint action by independent states and the pursuit of common interests, and in many respects it has been extremely successful. As has been said here, criticism can be expressed on some issues, and it is not the intention of Finland to break more, but to correct those things that are broken and to sustain those that are intact and take things forward. This must not be forgotten in this debate. It is not, therefore, a question of someone hijacking power from Finnish or other European Union Member States, but it has been done quite voluntarily by joining and allowing this power to be exercised there on matters of common interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u20	Madam President! Finland's presidency of the European Union is going to hit a very significant seam. We are working on the EU budget and on the designation of important EU posts as roulette and brexes. The threat of a new migration crisis is continuing. The crisis in Iran, for example, is also putting pressure on us, and the threat of a trade war is real. However, other issues could have been raised alongside the climate policy objective. For example, what action will be taken to prevent a wave of refugees such as 2015 from occurring, to be renewed in Europe, even more so in Finland? In its own programmes, the Government is mainly committed to increasing the number of legal migration routes. How to react to the EU's strongly declining birth rate? This, too, goes unnoticed. The birth rate is dropping so fast. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u21	I would ask that we keep to the timetable, the one-minute speeches by the representatives. — Prime Minister Rinne, one minute, reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Representative Niikko raised an important issue, climate change, and alongside that, the increase in immigration risks. In other words, we have such a situation that in Africa, if population projections are realised, there will be 1.25 billion more people in the 2040s to 2050s and the effects of climate change and the situation in these people's lives will become intolerable if not impossible. This means that, if nothing is done, hundreds of millions of people may, according to various expert organisations, be able to move from there. Therefore, and precisely because of this, the cooperation of the African Union with the European Union is an extremely important whole. This can help to ensure that the development of the African Union, the development of the countries of the African Union and the lives of people are moving in the right direction, and for this purpose, Finland has specifically wanted to raise this issue of Africa as its own priority. We have a common goal that people can live where they have been born, a high-quality, sustainable life.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u23	Mr President! It is very important that this principle of parliamentaryism remains in the EU decision-making process for Finland, and it is therefore good that this paper, drawn up jointly by all parties, has also served as the basis for government decisions. That is a good starting point. And just as Mr Orpo said here, these major issues concerning national security, immigration, climate change and also respect for and guarantee the rule of law cannot be resolved except at European level. It is very good that the government is ambitious in these matters, and it is easy to agree with this line. But it is true that, as the EU presidency, we should also be able to move forward on issues that are in line with the interests of Finland, and that is why I am surprised that this defence cooperation, to which Mr Sipilä also referred, this interpretation of the Treaty of Lisbon and how this Article 42.7 is perceived, and that there is not enough mention in this programme of taking forward the development of defence cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u24	Mr President! Contrary to what the Finns of Peru claim, this programme has quite balancedly sought out the policy measures that the nation states — some multinationals, some states of one nation — are jointly doing more and much faster and more efficiently than by exerting themselves. And this is the whole point of the EU. Take an example of the first Finnish Presidency: Finland was building a programme in the area of freedom, security and justice, the so-called Tampere programme. For the new policy area, EU cooperation sought guidelines, concrete action, smaller and larger measures, which were then taken together, and has been much better able to secure, for example, internal security. Now, I am sure it would be time for this aspect of security and defence cooperation to produce a slightly similar programme, bringing together the concrete tasks, so that we do not talk too much at meta level and at strategic level, but start working together to make and improve the common security of Europeans and their own security.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u25	Madam President! Indeed, in principle, the programme is all right, and I am sure that it will be possible to direct the EU for six months. But the working list is long, which also comes before Finland after Romania. There is a strong EU organisation after the EU elections and a multi-annual financial framework, and hopefully the Brexit, which will hit us this autumn, will not take all the time for us to achieve the goals that have now been set. A great many things are also linked to the climate issue. Among other things, the taxonomy of sustainable financing comes from there, and so does our climate and forestry policy. I have a small concern about how, whether we take the interests of our own country or our own perspective, we can bring in, among other things, the contribution of agricultural subsidies to this funding, the financing of rural areas, but also all of Finland's own objectives. So you have to be a sensitive chairman, but you still have to take care of your own interests.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u26	Mr President! It is important to hold a debate on the development of the EU. It has traditionally been important for Finland to adhere to the principle of unanimity in EU decision-making, particularly in the field of tax policy. However, the Government has now stated, inter alia, in the extension letter E, that Finland welcomes the Commission's efforts to identify the problem areas of energy taxation and solutions for fuel taxation in transport and is prepared to consider extending qualified majority voting. However, the transition to qualified majority voting in the field of taxation policy could limit national budgetary powers. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: how do you see the limitation of the national budgetary authority through this, in line with the Finnish Constitution, which nevertheless emphasises the maintenance of the budgetary authority in national hands?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u27	Mr President! The defence of human rights and fundamental rights and, in particular, the promotion of gender equality is, of course, part of the value base on which the EU has been created and reflected in our programme. Now it is good to highlight gender diversity as a part of promoting equality, in addition to promoting equality between women and men. The activity of extremist movements in the EU has raised barriers to promoting equality. Among other things, it has not been possible to agree to the Istanbul Convention, which is a programme specifically for the implementation of the fight against violence against women. However, violence against women is one of the serious challenges of internal security and the situation of women and the problem of human rights. Would it be time to reflect now on the policy measures to continue this work in this climate, for example by adopting a directive against violence against women?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u28	Mr President! In the recent debate, it is necessary to recall who or who approved the Greek third aid package or who accepted Finland's participation in the construction of the EU's military industrial complex at all stages. Yes, it has been a group of Finns who have been completely uncritical.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u31	Mr President! I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the valuable speech he made in this debate, reminding us of the historic peace project and the community of values that emerged in the midst of this broken continent. It is also good to remember in this moment. Perhaps what this programme is most aware of is that the only way to become a value leader is by setting an example, and that is why it is important, as Mrs Hassi, the chairman of the large committee, has rightly said here, that the EU is making a more ambitious climate policy and tightening up its own emissions targets. And this must be achieved under the Finnish Presidency. Here, from the direction of the opposition, this emphasis on climate policy was criticised by reason of its rationality or backbone, but precisely as an Arctic country, in an area where the climate is warming twice as fast as elsewhere, the emphasis on climate policy is vertebrate and sensible, because the work to slow down climate change is not only value leadership but also work for the future of the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u32	Madam President! I wonder how modest agriculture will be in the programme, even though it accounts for one third of the EU budget. Prime Minister Rinne did not mention it at all, and the Minister for Agriculture did not even stay here. During the Finnish Presidency, we are negotiating a financial framework in which agricultural subsidies are being cut by up to EUR 420 million over seven years, which corresponds to the total agricultural production of Finland for about one year. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister to tell us how we intend to defend Finnish food and food production and its security of supply now under the Presidency. Should this question not be raised as a top priority?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u33	Mr President! It is this bioeconomy, when it comes to climate change, both in terms of agriculture and forestry, that is one of our strengths that we should use during this presidency of the European Union. Since we have that knowledge, we should bring that concreteness to our presidency too, and I would like it to be brought into practice even to our delegates by taking them into the woods, taking them to farms to see how carbon-neutral agriculture works, and so on. The essential part of this is, of course, that we have agricultural policy in place and that we are taking advantage of this presidency of the European Union, and that we are also taking the lead here when we talk about the financial framework, we are talking about EU agricultural aid solutions. This seems to me to be an extremely important issue. Secondly, we also have very strong knowledge in the circular economy in this country, and we must also take advantage of this leadership of the EU. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how we intend to bring this concrete issue to the fore during our Presidency.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u34	Mr President! Traditionally, in this Chamber, we have built a united Europe for Finland's trade and security. Now, on the basis of today's speeches here on the side of a group, one is questioning that the EU would even represent Europe and that it would be useful as a factor of unity. The fact is, however, that isolated Finland is left alone and fades. Such a Finland was a danger in years. I hope they never happen again. It is therefore important to discuss together in this Chamber, to create a line and also to uphold the way in which positions on EU policy are applied for in Finland in a uniform manner through a large committee from the Parliament. Perhaps this became a crack in the face of the suspicion that the Prime Minister exceeded his mandate, or at least went solo after telling the President-in-Office of the Commission of his own preference, with the Socialist Group Frans Timmermans telling the big committee nothing about this. Prime Minister, why did you not tell us at the preparatory meeting of the large committee about this,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u35	Madam President! Finland has done a great deal to eradicate poverty in Europe. We have implemented the 2030 Agenda by, among other things, increasing the guarantee pension in Finland several times. Is there any information on how this eradication of poverty has been followed elsewhere in Europe? I would like to comment on this violence, particularly against women, which you raised, Mr Biaudet. Finland could be a pioneer in banning female mutilation worldwide by raising this issue during the Presidency, for example. We have just come to Parliament with a citizens' initiative, which will be discussed. How can you see that Europe and the African Union can work together on this matter? I believe that this is something that should be raised as a theme number one and which should also be maintained in the discussions. Could the Finnish Presidency raise this issue? It wouldn't cost much. Instead, however, combating climate change is a rather expensive move.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u36	I now give the answers to the ministers Rinne, Tuppurainen and Ohio. — Prime Minister Rinne, 3 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u37	Mr President! Representative Immonen, a very valuable and important issue in relation to this decision-making system in the EU in general. The starting point for Finland has been that, as a small country, we should be in favour of unanimous decisions as far as possible, but then there are certain elements in which we just have to move forward, and this may require that we consider the introduction of qualified majority rules. In foreign policy it has been quite a long way to this kind of thinking that there are areas where could be progressed in this direction. Well, now it is stated in this EU Presidency programme that, as far as energy taxation is concerned, these issues are in principle viewed positively. You have to go through them, discuss them, find solutions. I guarantee you, Mr Immonen, that, in the context of the report that will be submitted to Parliament on European policy after this presidency of the European Union, you will be able to discuss this issue here, including the role of these rules of majority and unanimity in the future. Then I would like to say to Mrs Mykkänen that the Prime Minister of the Government is the person who negotiates these key places in the EU institutions. My job is to get the best solution for Finland from there. And when it comes to the President of the Commission, it is a question of a person who is responsible for directing the Commission in a way that also takes into account the Finnish perspective in this whole, so that the Finnish Commissioner-designate becomes as strong a portfolio as possible, as hard a portfolio as possible, and that one of the excellent Finnish candidates for the management of the ECB could be elected in this process. These are the tasks that I, as Prime Minister, have to carry forward, and here as a whole I will exercise the Prime Minister's power to do so, in the context of the negotiation process, in a way that will enable these objectives to be achieved. I cannot say at the moment who will be the President of the Commission. It's the crucial link that leaves this whole palette open.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u40	Madam President! I would like to thank you for these excellent speeches, many of which asked how the interests of Finland will be fully realised. It is perhaps good to clarify here that when Finland acts as the EU Presidency, we cannot be the first to announce our own interests and go ahead of Finland's interests, but, as President-in-Office of the Council, Finland represents the interests of the EU as a whole and the common European added value. It is good to bear this in mind when we hold these debates, and in relation to the interests of Finland, for example, with regard to the protection of agriculture in the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF), for example, over the past year, during the last spring, but when we get the club of its President, we must look at the common European interest. Of course, when we are discussing this programme of the national Presidency here in Parliament today, we have a unique opportunity to raise issues that would otherwise not be on the agenda of the EU. I picked up from there, among other things, that Finland can naturally raise issues such as the Northern Dimension of the EU, Arctic cooperation. It suits us, and if we do not do it, hardly any other Member State will bring it up with the corresponding volume. That is why it is very good that this Arctic dimension is present in this programme. But, President-in-Office, there will also be things that will pass through our own national programme. And I'm going to make a short list of three: Firstly, this issue of the financial framework. It must be dealt with, it must be handled with skill and preferably with an ambitious timetable so that the Heads of State and Government can decide on this by the end of this year. Prime Minister Rinne attended the Council meeting as a midsummer, when it was decided that the Heads of State and Government would exchange views in October, and under the leadership of Finland, this exchange of views will be based on a basis in which figures will be included for the first time. It is an exact place because these figures relate, among other things, to how much money is allocated to regional policy, how much to the EU's common defence fund and how much to agriculture and so on. This is the exercise we're ready to do. President! Secondly, I am sure we will have this issue of Brexit. Here, too, the deadline runs, and by October decisions will have to be made, and I fear that we are well on our way to a non-contractual Brexit, and its consequences will of course be disastrous, first and foremost for the United Kingdom itself. There is little we can do about this, but the ball is at the end of Britain, and we expect them to clear up their own nests, to select the new Prime Minister and to choose the line they are taking towards this Brexit. Then, President, thirdly: In fact, a little bit of this Brexit has been left behind by the fact that, despite this whole EU gap, the EU is also expanding. The question of EU enlargement will come under the Finnish Presidency. This summer, the meeting of the Heads of State or Government was not yet able to agree on the opening of negotiations with North Macedonia and Albania. This issue will also be raised in the October Council under the leadership of Finland — an important, big question, because, just as the Government Programme says, enlargement of the EU is a major part of the EU's work to promote peace and stability. And it is also good to think that, despite all these years of crisis, the EU still has appeal and the new Member States are working towards this cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u41	Madam President! To Mr Orpo, I saw at the beginning of what we are now going to focus on: safety really rises as one of the most important parts of this programme and in general Finland is an example of how to promote security. We want to take this message widely forward in Europe and, in general, from the point of view of overall security. Overall safety is that internal and external security go hand in hand on every issue. On the one hand, climate change and the fight against inequality are also seen as security issues, and that is what this programme is doing. The fact that security is comprehensive also implies that crime, for example, which is also combated by European cooperation, is not created in a vacuum. It comes under difficult circumstances, above all, and where this aspect of combating inequality is very important. In addition, Mr Tavio and Mr Niiko: If we think about security as broadly as in this programme, and we see it Europeanly, Finland is quite alone if Finland should handle the fight against cyber and hybrid threats on its own. The European Union is giving this a huge backseat, and cooperation is absolutely central to this. In view of the changed security environment in recent decades, we are faced with truly new threats that no Member State alone is capable of responding to. I would also like to raise on page 15 the important issue raised here in the programme, namely that of human rights-based asylum and immigration policy is based on international agreements — this is what is being maintained — cooperation between the authorities, effective external border control and appropriate, rapid and high-quality asylum processes. This must be the case both in Finland and more widely at European Union level, and now as the country holding the presidency, Finland can go out and seek solidarity among the Member States, seeking even the smallest common denominators. That is where we have a huge responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u42	Madam President! In Finland and in our home regions, wolves have become the concern of the people. Mr Leppä said at his speech earlier that the problem was a major EU anti-fraud policy in Finland, which hinders our own national decision-making, that is to say, we have signed an article which has given national decision-making to restrict large predators or wolves to the European Union. Ministers, should we now apply for this change during the Finnish Presidency of the European Union?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u43	Mr President! In autumn 2018, the Parliamentary Working Group prepared a report on the themes of the Presidency. The report highlighted the role of citizens, climate policy and European security and external relations. However, the priorities of the Presidency as set out in the seventh annex to the Government Programme completely forgot about security and external relations. So the government forgot these, but it is good that security and external relations are now back in the debate. They are, in fact, very important if we look at the situation between the United States and Iran or, for example, at the need to combat terrorism. I therefore hope that the government will give concrete thought to ways of taking the role of Finland during its Presidency in resolving the hot situation in the United States and Iran or, perhaps, in highlighting the EU's role in the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u44	Reply, Minister Haavisto, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u45	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Vikman: you have highlighted one aspect of the European Union's activities, namely the importance of the EU as an external actor and also as an increase in international security. If, especially now, as the crisis in Iran deepens, you see where the EU has the opportunity to act and where the EU has the say, it has been this nuclear agreement with Iran, which the EU has tried to defend and promote. Furthermore, the EU plays a very important role as an actor in this very difficult situation between Iran and the United States. The role of Africa has also been specifically mentioned here, and that too is important for the EU's external relations. Africa needs to be seen more widely than just as a recipient of development cooperation, precisely as a political player of this kind. It is precisely in the fight against climate change and in such matters that the European Union can act at the same level as the African Union. But there is also the fight against terrorism, the influence on refugee issues and all that we can do with the African Union today. Many things have already been said about the European Union as a security actor, but the European Union also plays a very important role in increasing international security. It is important to remember that there are some areas where the European Union in particular can influence. Reference has been made here to the enlargement of the European Union, the Western Balkans issue. The European Union is expected to take initiative in the Balkans. The European Union plays a very important role in the Horn of Africa and in North Africa. In other words, there are many areas in which we can also be more active in external relations, and Finland's goal is also that the European Union should be strengthened as a foreign and security policy actor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u46	Mr President! Contrary to what has just been said here on a particular side of the Chamber, the need for a European Union is greater than ever. History itself shows this, but also the developmental features of the future. Security policy and international relations, but also economic development, the promotion of free trade or technological development require Finland to have a tool for cooperation, a European Union that promotes the cause of Finns, a point. It is extremely important, and there is no other way out of it. But now that the countries of southern Europe in particular are looking at the new EU presidency, so, Prime Minister Rinne and Minister of Finance Lintilä, there are also different voices within the government about so-called economic discipline. Can European countries, our partner countries, be confident that Finland will continue to apply a certain degree of financial discipline?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u47	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the government for a good programme of the EU Presidency. I would particularly like to raise two points, one of which is the promotion of Europe-wide working conditions. This is a very important issue for the whole of Europe. The second point is the development of measures to combat climate change in the European Union as well. I am a little confused about this debate here in the Chamber, and especially about the views of the Finnish Parliament Group, when I understand that we are all interested here in Finland's interest and in Finland's competitiveness. I see that, in this work on combating climate change, international fora and, in particular, joint action by the European Union play an essential role. I would like to ask the Finnish Parliament Group now that you yourself have stated in your environmental policy programme that the biggest polluters are:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u48	Madam President! Yesterday, the government brought us an additional budget in which it hires assistants more than we are in the opposition, and today you, in turn, make it difficult for the opposition to do important work within the parliamentary system by bringing this programme of the EU Presidency, indeed, two hours before it is discussed. The Social Democrats' representative, Mr Guzenina, hoped that it would be patriotic to hold the EU presidency united. But I ask you: did you listen to your party chairman and the Prime Minister of this country, Rinne, open this presentation when he began to view populism as a bad thing? I would like to remind you that your party received only 7,000 more votes in the last parliamentary elections, and from a party of the same size you basically give an image as if we were somehow evil. So that's where the confrontation comes from.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u51	Mr President! That speech did not refer to the Finns of Peru, but to populism. Then you can ask yourself why this association came to Mr Tynkkynen’s mind. It is good to hear that there is widespread support for educational values in this Chamber. After all, these values are timely, as Mr Tavio and Mrs Biaudet have pointed out very well, because the EU is part of a period of years, centuries, in which human rights, the rule of law and democracy are defended, and these issues are now well involved in this programme of the Finnish Presidency of the European Union. I would therefore like to stress that intervention in these matters is indeed urgent, just as urgent as climate action, because these principles of the rule of law, human rights and, in particular, the protection of the weaker — women, girls, minorities — are really under threat, for example, in Poland and Hungary. That is why it is great to see this emphasis, and I hope that action will be taken on these issues, especially since there is such a broad consensus here in the Chamber. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u52	Mr President! Indeed, the Finnish Presidency will begin next week, and I stayed here to think about Minister Tuppurainen's statement that, although we are a presidency, we are not doing our own business, but are doing EU business. It is in a sense the case, but on the other hand it is not the case, because if I look back, for example, on the end of this Romanian Presidency, then they, for example, have very clearly wanted to pursue their own interests in cohesion policy, and Bulgaria, a year ago, was able to take forward the enlargement of the EU to the Western Balkans, which is to say that it is possible, during the Presidency, to take forward the issues that are important to itself. I would now like to ask whether Finland's weight or value could be rigidity. You have just mentioned the importance of the rule of law and respect for the tripartite division of power, the values of Europe. This is important for all of us, but how can they be put into practice? For example, could we think about:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u53	Mr President! First of all, thank you to the Prime Minister for a good and comprehensive programme of the Finnish Presidency of the European Union. A quick reading — it admittedly came a little late — found very important things, such as the fight against climate change and increasing the sense of security for citizens. However, I would still like to see an important theme gaining more weight. The EU is very much focused on defending market freedom, which has contributed to unfair wage competition and the weakening of the bargaining position of workers. I therefore believe that the Finnish Presidency should make a strong contribution to the principles of European social rights. This means improving workers' rights and protecting social protection legislation, including binding minimum standards at EU level. We should be particularly concerned about workers moving and posted within the EU,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u54	Madam President! The Finnish Presidency in the EU is happening at a very fast and controversial time. We have heard a lot about Brexit this season, in the parliamentary term that has begun, and already in the last parliamentary term. What a huge and difficult thing for Europe, as Mr Tuppurainen well described in his speech. The economic situation in Finland has improved due to the wise economic decisions taken during the last parliamentary term. The Sipilä government is to be commended for that, of course. But the thing that brings me to mind is that in the European Union some countries' economies are in pretty bad shape. The speaker, Mr Häkkänen, raised the issue of Italy. I can say that this is an extremely worrying issue. However, it should be borne in mind that the European Union's Treaties and their future rules continue to apply the no bail-out rule. I was a little surprised when this has not been emphasised very much by the Finns of Finland in due course. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: how will this solidarity be taken forward? Hopefully, in this Treaty there will still be no permanent solidarity on debt-sharing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u55	Mr President! Mr Kauma raised an important issue, which is the rule of law. It is a great thing that the government has made it a central theme during the Presidency. There is precisely one way to do this: to link the reception of EU funds to compliance with this rule of law. The fact that this programme of Presidency actually states that Finland is seeking this is an excellent thing. That is precisely a firm line, because this will now be on the agenda of the next Council. Then we will go over this situation in Poland, where the new law on the retirement age of judges is not appropriate. This must be pursued and fully supported. I believe that the whole Chamber will support this. Mr President! The second thing that is important is this social Europe: if workers are sent to different countries they are paid the same salary and cannot, for example, be sent from Poland with Polish salaries. That is what President Halla-aho voted against in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u56	Mr President! I think Mr Tavio spoke very well and in his speech he meant that the European Union is an economic union and a political union made up of the Member States. It is a mechanism to implement internationalism or, for example, to combat tax evasion — good things. But that does not mean that it is an independent operator, who now seems to have some of its own increased values, of which I no longer know what they really are. Shouldn't they be defined? As a lawyer, I see that when something is sanctioned, then it must be really well defined what it is. There are good Western values, Christian values. But now I fear that there will be some kind of political decision-making in the Commission about what is appropriate to talk about. Now I see that here, too, when we critically take a stand on irregularities, we are there on the other side. Are we on the wrong side of this world of values, which has now risen so strongly?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u57	Prime Minister Rinne, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u58	Mr President! I would like to comment on this debate in relation to the financial framework and the rule of law: just as Mr Lindtman said, the government assumes that the rule of law is the one on which the whole European community is built. That means that we have legislative, judicial and executive powers differentiated and that the courts are independent and guarantee freedom of expression under the legislation laid down by the legislator, and so on. Unfortunately, we have problems in Europe in these areas, both in Hungary and in Poland. Both countries have a strong record of these problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u59	Madam President! It has to be said here that the big difference between the Finns and us, for example, is that you basically want a weaker European Union, and some of you want Finland to resign from the European Union and the euro, and that will harm Finland. That is not a sensible policy. Finland needs a strong European Union. President! I would like to return briefly to this common European defence: it is very good that the programme specifically mentions relations between the EU and the United States and cooperation between NATO and the EU. But I would like to draw attention to the mutual assistance clause and its content. Even the President of the Republic has drawn attention to the fact that this clause is devoid of substance, and, if ever, during our Presidency, Finland should try to obtain content for this aid clause. For example, we have presented joint exercises. With regard to hybrid threats, it can be found here, yes, but it also needs to be equipped for conventional threats. This would give substance to the aid clause, and I ask why it is not in this programme, and can we do something about it?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u60	Mr President! It is clear from this debate that since the Finns are the only EU-critical and nationalist party in this Parliament, as you others all the time say that you want to promote the interests of the EU here and here, the Finns first want to promote the national interests of Finland. It is a very clear question, and Mr Kauma, among other things, made it quite clear that Finland could do more for its own good, that it would not just drive a very vague EU unity. In fact, it seems to be the task of the Finns themselves to bring up the problems, because others do not. Finland has paid more membership fees to the EU than it has received for almost all of its membership. However, we have been driven down domestic agricultural production, we have practically driven industry into Central Europe in the EU, Finland being, as you know, the third oldest car fleet in the EU, and the EU's common asylum policy has risked our safety and made us the target country of mass immigration. These are all major problems that should be discussed here, and these are problems which are, of course, being pursued there in international cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u61	Mr President! Representatives Kautto, Heinäluoma and Lindtman rightly raised the issue of European social rights and labour law. I would like to point out here that our presidency's programme has raised two parallel objectives which are important for Europe's success: at the same time, we are talking about a competitive internal market, but also about social integrity and the protection of workers. This section 3.1 tells us that the Finnish Presidency will pay attention to the realisation of social rights, ensure the implementation of modern labour and social standards throughout the Union and assess the need to update labour law and the social security system to meet new forms of work — that is, the platform economy and many other new challenges for the digital world economy, to which we will respond, among other things, in the informal Competitiveness Council, which will start the presidency and which I am happy to take with Minister Kulmun.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u62	Madam President! This programme reads as follows: ‘EU development funding in the countryof origin Africa. “ It's a good entry. Africa is a question of almost fate for Europe, you might say. It sums up climate change, climate change-related changes such as food production, strong population growth in Africa and the migratory pressure associated with these causes, which inevitably affects Europe. There are countries in Africa that have been very progressive in women's education, in girls' education and in education in general and also in family planning, but there are also countries in Africa that are extremely despicable about these objectives and even encourage absurd population growth. I ask the Minister for Development, Mr Skinner: how do you see such consideration? If assistance is given,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u63	Mr President! Perhaps I myself would have liked this programme to have come a little earlier, because there are good records here, for example, on agriculture or on cooperation in security and defence, which could have been time to study. There's a lot of these things. We can focus on climate change or the economy or security and set targets in relation to trade agreements or the functioning of the internal market, but what we are focusing on and what we are setting targets on is, above all, totally irrelevant if the Member States of the Union are not committed to them. I believe that this is Finland's most important task in the next six months: to restore its credibility and also its unity and to make every contribution to the efforts made by the Member States to commit themselves to this fine project and promote European unity. The Finns, your own role in the European Parliament, for example, and your partner parties there are the main factors that violate that unity in the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u64	Mr President! Finland will become President of the EU at a very central and even critical moment. This is an important place for us, and this programme is a very important document. There are a lot of things here and quite well-founded priorities that Mr Tuppurainen has opened up well, but I would like to ask again: How has the government thought about measuring Finland’s success in this important task? At least what do we want to achieve as the presidency? The Government has also emphasised much sustainable development in both the Government Programme and this programme of the EU Presidency. During the last period, one of the key successes in promoting sustainable development was to bring sustainable development into the budget, the budget book and the budgetary process we are working on here. We have proposed that this approach should also be taken to the EU level. Does the government intend to promote budgeting for sustainable development?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u65	Mr President! In his speech, Prime Minister Rinne pointed out that the EU's internal market and its stability are particularly important for Europe. Equality is also important. Both of these are concrete in working life. Without uniform and fair rules of working life, there can be no real equality. We should all ensure that Finland's competence in labour market issues is strongly on the agenda of our EU Presidency. Finland is a pioneer in reconciliation, equality and the construction of rules of working life on a tripartite basis, and it is therefore good that our special expertise expands to other parts of Europe. We have no interest in unskilled, underpaid workers who, in the worst case scenario, are victims of trafficking in human beings in Finland and elsewhere in the EU. It is therefore necessary to ensure that no unskilled concrete man works in any building, that ships are not only welded by paper grade welds and that patients are treated by non-language doctors. As Prime Minister Rinne said: a sustainable Europe, a sustainable future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u66	Honorable Speaker! You can live with this program, in fact it's not as bad as you might think, but this conversation that's been going on here is pretty amazing. It would appear that the coalition would indeed like more federal development. We want more national decision-making power, a lighter EU. The EU itself is a debt union and this must be understood and accepted. So, if we look at each country, all countries are in debt either on the private or the public side, except for those countries that receive cohesion aid. In them these indications do not pop red. Well, now what I want to bring up is trade relations. This highlights the trade relations between the EU and the US and their intensification and then the trade relations between the EU and China and their promotion. But this existing situation that, according to Chinese considerations, a trade war may take up to 20 years,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u67	Mr President! It is not a federal development, that freedom of the press, the rule of law and democracy are respected in all the Member States of the European Union and that it is also committed to financing. It is not a dictatorship, it is a blocking of dictatorships in Europe. As far as Mr Vähämäki is concerned and Mr Hähkänen initially paid great attention, the main and finance ministers have not paid attention in their replies, namely how we really ensure that Italy is not the next Greece — and, as we know, it is ten times bigger than Greece — and how it is seen during the Presidency. Unfortunately, Prime Minister, I did not find out at all how you rushed to announce your favourite candidate as President of the Commission, helping the Finnish candidates to choose, let alone how it will be promoted by not telling the big committee in advance, but I am also happy to hear more about this. Mr Haavisto, there has been a lot of talk about security here and about Africa, but how the EU, under your leadership, will ensure,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u68	Madam President! The programme of the Presidency presented by the Prime Minister really does, quite rightly, identify the current challenges facing the Union and the related objectives. Indeed, there are many challenges, both external and internal. Whether they relate to the economy, security or the environment and climate, their tackle is not only in the EU's common interest but also in Finland's national interest. It is clear that the more united and stronger the EU is internally, the stronger we will be internally, the better we will be able to tackle the challenges. Here we return to growth and employment. I am very pleased that this programme identifies the need for a new EU growth strategy, a strategy for sustainable growth, and I hope that it will be pursued with determination. Excellent.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u69	Madam President! At least it doesn’t matter to me that I only got this program a few hours ago, because it was full of predictable, unexpected, fashionable words. Responding to climate change really requires a systemic change at global level. What should be done during the Finnish Presidency of the European Union is to have a concrete impact on actions that increase such global measures as the carbon duties we have previously proposed. Instead, the government’s moral beam here does not help the climate, but may in fact weaken Finland’s global position in the world. Of course, the principle must be that the polluter pays. But in this context it is quite unnecessary to point out that our export-produced forest industry is polluting a lot or that the resident of Kainuu has a large carbon footprint, because he has to warm up his house and drive a hundred kilometres away to the doctor. We want a sense of proportion here. This is not a ‘yes but’ policy, but this is an alternative to which you put the words on the back of each other.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u70	Madam President! Mr Tavio, you have just said that first it is in the interests of Finland. However, your speech is very contradictory and this contradiction is reflected, among other things, in your party's attitude towards posted workers. Your President in the European Union has stated specifically that wage dumping should be possible. This is by no means in the interests of Finns or of Finland's work. Nor is this fair and fair for EU citizens. Social Europe treats citizens fairly and fairly. Social Europe will also improve employment and strengthen the financial base and stability of the countries. I would now like to ask you, Mr Tavio, once again: how do you justify this view of yours that first in the interests of Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u72	Madam President! The EU must be critical of its policy and of its policy. We do see a lot of problems in the EU. The EU must gain the confidence of people, the citizens, that there is work in the future, that there is a future, that there is a livelihood. The defence of workers' rights is very important, especially in the EU field, that there is no dumping of working conditions or taxation. I would hope that when we talk about EU criticism, we will focus on the right things that really affect the everyday lives of Finnish ordinary people and will address them and not bring such nonsense. Madam President! When we talk about the rise of populism, Hungary is an example: the rule of law, democracy, freedom of speech, minority rights have been placed in the wastebasket. This did not refer to any party, but it was interesting to note,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u73	Madam President! A representative of the smaller opposition party said that: Finland needs the EU more than ever before. What's the point? We have been in the EU for about 30 years. After 30 years, why do we need even more of that EU? Well, logic doesn't really work in any way. And when we talk about just what is of the utmost importance to me, that wage dumping in Finland has been quite hard because of the Eastern bloc countries, what is the point of this case that we are still trying to bring Macedonia and Albania into the presidency. At least Turkey did not make it a short time ago, but even that was almost covered by special conditions. In fact, Macedonia, Albania will be doing the fact that there are even more people here doing those cheap jobs, which has now been the pain.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u74	Mr President! Mr Laakso did raise an important issue, namely that we should work on fair rules of play. But I ask: What is the policy of the Finnish People's Party here?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u79	Madam President! I'm sure I just told you quite well about our basic Finns position.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u85	Madam President! Obviously reference was made to the signatory's statement that Finland needs a European Union and a strong European Union more than ever. I'll explain why. Because we have global problems. We have problems of that size, such as climate change, population growth, migration, global markets, fierce competition. We need trade agreements that are global, we need global measures to manage climate change, we do not need Finland's action, we do not need Europe's action. For all the questions we need a strong European Union, because one country, one small country, cannot resolve these issues. Or for you, my fundamental Finns, even though in speeches so important security: Our security will be resolved through cooperation between the European Union. If we were left alone, if the European Union were weaker, it would threaten the safety of Finns. Whether it is internal security or external security, we need and strongly defend the European Union and Finland's membership there. That is why we expect a particular determination from the government during the Presidency.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u86	Let's hear the answers from the ministers. Prime Minister Rinne first and Minister Skinner, is there anyone else? Almost all of them. — Prime Minister Rinne, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u87	Mr President! Representative Vähämäki in a commendable way raised issues that are really important from the perspective of Finland in the wider context. This current situation in trade relations in the world is dangerous from the perspective of Finland, especially from the perspective of a small export-driven nation, and it is therefore important that we work together at European level in favour of a rule-based world order based on institutions. It is the way in which trade relations are managed in a way where trade wars do not gain power and the uncontrolled situation does not give rise to any influence on the whole. That is why I was very pleased to hear the President-in-Office, Mr Orpo, about this need and state of European cooperation. Only and only the small and medium-sized countries of Europe together can act as an important player on the planet in the economic, social and social sense to influence the extremely important issues of our time, which are extremely important for the future of our children, and therefore only together can this be taken forward. Then, on economic policy, on which a few speeches have been challenged in this debate, I would just like to say that the government's line is clear. Each country is ultimately responsible for its own finances. This is the clear principle that Finland has followed so far and which will be followed in the future. You don't pay off other people's debts. It is a very simple, effective principle of financial management. But this word “economic discipline ” and its close history back to the point of keeping me apart. We must start building a strong common future, developing a common Europe through future prospects, through education and knowledge. As I said in that speech, it makes sense to start thinking about this kind of super-university Europe, which sums up research, intensifys cooperation in science in a European way that can cope on a world-class scale with these big challenges. I hope that the Group of the European People's Party here in Parliament will also agree on this, that these issues will be taken forward in this way. Let us forget the sad history of economic discipline policy that ruined people's daily lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u88	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Parliament for the parliamentary preparation on the basis of which this programme of the Presidency has come. I think this is an excellent reflection of the strong cooperation between Parliament and the government in Finland. Just a few remarks. As the Prime Minister said just now, we are certainly not relaxing any of the financial obligations that we have raised. This has been the subject of a debate on, for example, deposit protection. At the moment, the debate is very technical — mainly about what the technical measures could be. But really, things don't go forward politically as long as the risk classes are this high. Until they come down at the banks, there will be no visible progress on this side. I think that is very clear. Then there was the debate on whether Finland has initiatives for sustainable financing. Finland has had initiatives, and thank you, as one of the previous finance ministers, Mr Orpo. The Finance Ministers have a coalition that is globally considering the ways in which finance ministers can influence climate change. For example, there are solutions for carbon pricing, public sector financing, procurement in the public sector and channelling private money, but then creating sustainable financial markets. This was last the subject of a very long debate at Ecofin and will continue under our presidency.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u89	Mr President! I will comment on three issues relating to the EU's foreign and security policy. Firstly, Mr Mykkänen raised the question of what the government is doing in the fight against terrorism and what line we expect from the European Union. There is no change in this. We've been involved in the coalition against ISIS. In a way, we now have a success story in our hands: Isis has been defeated, there is no big Caliphate in that area. And now, of course, we have to work with the repercussions. Firstly, the foreign fighters and other Isis fighters will hopefully be brought to justice in the region. We will do everything in our power to support the creation of a hybrid court there. And then these families, family members, these cases that are now in the camps, such as Al-Hol, will also be treated as individuals, taking into account security risks and perceptions. Of course, the best interests of the child are ahead of these decisions in the case of families. Mr Orpo then asked why we are being passive about Article 42.7 — security cooperation. It is not, it is constantly being discussed with all EU countries. It is considered to be an important item. Mr Orpo well mentioned the need for more training in hybrid cooperation and so on, including in paragraph 42.7 of this Article. And of course NATO cooperation and other things have been mentioned in this context. Last but not least, I would like to take Mr Laakso's question as to why we are talking about the prospect of membership of the European Union in Northern Macedonia or Albania. At the same time, there are sometimes criticisms that the EU is the club of the rich, the club of Western Europe. We believe that it should not be that way, but that those countries that meet the criteria for membership, such as in the Balkans, should be able to get involved under fair conditions during these accession negotiations. There is a struggle for souls there at the moment: is Western Balkans part of Europe, or is there other powerful forces there? Yes, we want European standards, European ideals, European customs and views — our values — to be reflected in the Western Balkans.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u90	Mr President! Mr Vähämäki, you rightly raised the issue of trade policy and its importance to Finland, the EU and the world as a whole. It is clear that we are living in a challenging time, and that is why we have wanted to emphasise in particular in the programme that the rule-based system is what we want to defend and what we want to work for. We have very ambitious records of this and also of the need to develop the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, and to deal with these problems openly. I myself will be in Geneva next week, among other things, discussing these challenges with international, European colleagues. Mr Kiuru, you have highlighted Africa's importance. Ladies and gentlemen have already gone through this whole on a number of occasions, but I would like to highlight the development aspect that you have asked about. We, Finland, have a long history, a long tradition, and we have done good work, you can say globally, including in Africa. And it's obvious that we've had a specific focus area there. For example, the Horn of Africa has been, and certainly will be, important to us. Human rights, human rights treaties in general, conditionality, the need for consideration, will certainly continue to be important to Finland. During the last term, we have developed new forms of development cooperation instruments by the government. This work will certainly continue this season.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u91	Madam Speaker! I would like to comment on the fundamental values of this debate, which came from the People's Republic of Finland, and whether they now divide the Member States into the right people and others. It is good to bear in mind that these fundamental values, which we are now talking about — equality, democracy, human rights, the rule of law — are not arbitrary values, even those of Prime Minister Rinne’s government, but are enshrined in the EU Treaties. The countries that have joined the European Union have accepted these fundamental values for themselves, and they apply to everyone. We will see to it that, during the Presidency, we create the mechanism that will make a concrete contribution to ensuring that these values are respected by the Member States as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u94	Madam President! Several speeches have been made here about the EU line for Finns, and it can be said briefly that we are not the EU, but we are Finland. We are Finland, which is involved in the EU. This is a good thing to remember in this debate when we are quoted here. In my opinion, this programme does not address those pain areas very carefully. It is easy to write lofty text, but when you need solutions to those problems, there are no. Among other things, the issue of Africa — nothing is said about the population explosion. We cannot create a welfare state in Africa from Finland; it must be done by the Africans themselves. Immigration. Terrorism. As far as social cohesion is concerned, I would have liked Finland to act on equality, especially for people with disabilities, which is not very much in the EU, especially in southern Europe. You, too. The Greens are on the board.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u95	Madam President! I believe that today's debate has well demonstrated the need for us to have more and more EU debates throughout the country. I believe that the straws that the right-wing conservative opposition has fired here today well illustrate that need. At least in the past, Prime Minister Rinne has spoken with some warm words that these informal meetings could be held elsewhere in Finland than only in Helsinki, and I ask you: do you still see the possibility that, for example, an informal meeting of agriculture and forestry ministers could be held in Central Finland? Above all, Prime Minister, I hope that in some way we will increase the EU debate in this country, because it is clear that if representatives do not know where to decide or what has been voted on in this House, then perhaps the citizens may also be faced with challenges.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u96	Madam President! Finland will be under special scrutiny during the EU Presidency from many directions and on a wide range of issues. We are considered a civilized nation with high morals and wise ideas. Unfortunately, however, we have fallen far short of many EU countries in terms of animal protection, and animal protection has just been highlighted. Unfortunately, the previous government did not get a reformed animal welfare law despite the great need and great expectations. The reform is in great need and haste. The law must be brought into line with other Nordic levels, and now, if ever, under the presidency of the European Union would be a good opportunity and a good time to correct this also. I would ask the government: what are you going to do about this? The second point relates to terrorism, which has already been raised in many speeches. Mr Haavisto has also made a great contribution to this in his reply, but I would like to ask a more specific question: is the government prepared to take responsibility for drawing up a new EU-wide action programme to combat terrorism and combat radicalisation?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u97	Mr President! I have listened in practice to the whole debate — interesting things. However, one aspect has been brightened by its absence, and it is the European Union and young people. I have the impression that the majority of young people in Finland and other EU Member States take the European Union for granted. They want to be in the European Union and they want to develop it. This programme states that the Erasmus programme should only be strengthened. Now the Minister for Education must have an important reason not to be here, but I would like to hope that, while Finland still has a strong position as one of the world's leading educational countries, we will also be strongly highlighting student mobility in the coming months. In this connection, I would also like to stress that it applies to all levels of education. Many times we forget, or we don't know,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u98	Madam President! Peace and stability are good things, and it is great that this programme also addresses the issue of terrorism prevention. I therefore hope that the government will not go now to prevent terrorism by planning the introduction of Isis women into Finland. In my opinion, it is time for the EU's net contribution to begin negotiations to be reduced because, according to the information that has come to light, it has not been done for several years. Finland is bigger than it is in the world, let's say. Mr President, Ministers and Members of Parliament, none of you, none of you, have received a single vote or mandate here except from the people of Finland. So let's try to be the size of a Finnish poverty ending and the Finnish one is well. Let's take a look at Finland first, then maybe Africa. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u99	Mr President! I will come back to one of the major issues of the European Union and the Finnish Presidency, namely climate issues. After all, the EU's objective is carbon neutrality 2050. However, the European Union is only one element in this global climate issue. For example, the European Union accounts for around 14% of CO2 emissions. This underlines that the European Union must still be able to cooperate with the United States, India and China. After all, Finland has traditionally been a pioneer in these matters. Finland is one of the few countries that has reduced CO2 emissions from 1990 levels. And when a great deal has been said about issues of national interest, there are also national issues in these matters, as in the case of large combustion plants, the LCB BREF solution, where, for example, Germany, France and so on, strongly promoted their own interests. My question is: what are the means for Finland and the European Union to have access to:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u100	Mr President! It is absolutely essential and also in Finland's interest that the EU take the lead in the fight against climate change and in the protection of biodiversity. These are questions of the fate of humanity, and Finland has an important role to play during the Finnish Presidency to ensure that sustainable development, the fight against climate change and biodiversity are cross-cutting all EU policies and that all these ambitious objectives will be brought into play sooner rather than later. It is also very important and good to ensure that Finland, as President of the EU, promotes the UN Convention on Biological Diversity and the sustainable use of natural resources and animal welfare, which has been raised here. Of course, a swift and fair transition towards a sustainable future also requires investment in education, research and technology, as Mr Gustafsson rightly pointed out here. It is also a way to strengthen young people's faith in the future and to build the community that we need in Europe. The last few years have shown that human rights, equality and the rule of law really need defenders, and the EU can and must act rigorously on these issues both in Europe and in the world. It is a good thing that these very issues are the backbone of the Finnish Presidency of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u101	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to the cooperation between the various levels of government in moving these objectives forward. One of these priorities is the EU as a global climate actor. We know that it has sometimes been challenging between countries to find solutions to these issues and, on the other hand, we equally know that cities often have the keys to finding solutions to these issues. I would therefore like to ask how you intend to involve the cities in the pursuit of these Presidency objectives. Similarly, cities would be excellent partners in the growth strategy and in the areas of knowledge and education. It is a pity that all the meetings of the Presidency will be held here in Helsinki, but I think that through such cooperation it would be possible to cooperate widely with cities and thereby seek the participation of civil society across Finland and the various European countries in the pursuit of these objectives. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in my opinion, we have not yet received answers to the questions of the President of the Commission and of economic discipline. If there is still a way to answer them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u102	Mr President! I was also disturbed by the fact that this report was only received so late. Of course, I quickly read through its 17 pages, but it is bad governance that it was done, and I would like to ask what the reason for this was — yet such an important issue. The EU programme has a slightly similar starting point to the government programme, which is to say that it listed all kinds of things, and I personally see this as a problem. Antti Rinne, Minister, in your speech you said that the EU is us. At the same time, however, there may be a tough Brexit, there is a different discord in the EU. You said that the EU is the most competitive in the world. Is that really so? At least I have doubts. He was referred to Jean Monnet. The Coal and Steel Community was all right in the early 50s, but this is the big worry about whether, however, the best possible starting point for doing this kind of program thus hovering in the air. However, the world is now dominated by a powerful and power policy: there is a different kind of trade war, a different kind of technological war,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u103	Madam President! Having listened to this debate, I have no choice but to return to this EU line for the Finns of Peru. I am used to certain inconsistencies: for example, at the beginning of the last period, the Finns of Finland approved the Greek support package for their first job, as has been said here. Well, it has now turned out that there is a lot of good, a little negative in the European Union, and it must always be critical, but definitely the good in the EU is that it can bring workers rights, increase them and strengthen them. And it has now turned out that, in time, Jussi Halla-aho, President of the Finns Party, has voted against the fact that the salary of workers posted to Finland should be the same as that of Finnish workers. I find it incomprehensible that the people of Peru cannot answer this question, which has often been asked by many representatives, and I would ask the chairman of the parliamentary group, Mr Tavio, if you would like to take a position on whether you believe that working conditions should be trampled on, and if you are not, why on earth did your chairman vote so?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u104	Mr President! Seeing the world or Europe as a field of zero-sum game between countries is dangerous and will eventually lose everyone. But to the point. During the Presidency, it is important to direct the EU to act as a global climate leader, as outlined in this overall very good programme. At present, however, energy policy in many countries in Europe is threatening to drift down the path of increasing wind and solar energy, which is a good thing, its variability is balanced and complemented by a significant burning of fossil gas, biomass or even coal, and that is a bad thing. Such a development will not lead to a sufficiently low-emission or ecologically sustainable energy system. I would therefore like to express the hope that Finland, as President, will be a courageous voice in favour of a climate policy aimed at the rapid and genuine emissionlessness of the entire energy system. This is a particularly important aspect when defining the key elements of the EU's long-term climate strategy for this period.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u105	Mr President! I understand that here the SDP has found an interesting vote in the European Parliament, but when it does not exist in this programme, I am not prepared to comment on it in that way. But everyone knows that Finland has universality, so surely now, as the Prime Minister's Party, the SDP can make sure that universality is actually realised in different areas. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u106	We have agreed that two hours will be spent on this debate, and ministers will have to be given time to reply. I will give the last floor to Mr Aittakummu, and then to the ministers the answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u107	Madam President! I recently met a person who had started to work for the European Union, and he said that he was surprised at how well a single person in such a community of peoples can work in cooperation with others. In the EU, we therefore have a great deal of importance, for example, the development and strengthening of Finnish agriculture, which is mentioned in the programme that agriculture must be able to operate in a profitable way in all the Member States of the Union. Mr President! Finnish agriculture offers us solutions for security, vitality and employment as well as energy and environmental protection, and it is important to take it forward. I am very pleased that Mr Hassi raised this very important issue at the beginning of the debate, namely the values that have been discussed here. I also think it is very good to ask what values mean to us and what they mean in practice. It is true that the tree is known by its fruits, by what we do, by what we do, by what we do, by what we do not only remain at the level of the debate, but also by what we do in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u108	I now give the ministers one minute's answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u109	Mr President! Thank you to the representatives for a good and worthy debate. I draw the conclusion that this programme of the presidency prepared by the government is ready to support an infinitely large majority in Parliament, and it is easy to move it forward at the end of Brussels and Strasbourg. I particularly welcome the debate that took place around the rule of law, because it is the whole basis on which the whole European community is built, the recognition of the right of people in the face of the legislator, the judiciary, the executive to be properly heard and to have the right effect on their lives. This is an extremely important principle, in addition to democracy and freedom of expression, to move these things forward. I very much hope that we will be able to steer the Union's activities for the next six months in a way that promotes communityism, fosters good cooperation between European Member States.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u110	Madam President! This nuanced debate certainly shows the extent of this policy of the European Union. We have always discussed the solidarity clause on animal welfare issues. This is just the way it is that when we talk about European cooperation it is normal in politics today. These matters cover all possible issues and it is important that we participate as widely as possible, as has been the case today, and very carefully prepared, as has been done today in this programme. I will reply briefly, Mr President, to the question of enlargement. It is not the case that, under the Finnish Presidency, we would accept North Macedonia and Albania as members, but we would like to see the opening of accession talks. These negotiations are being conducted in the light of strict criteria, such as the functioning of the judicial system, the eradication of corruption, the proportion of organised crime and so on. Only if strict criteria are met will we be able to join this European Union. [of the group of Finns: As in each other!]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u111	Mr President! I too would like to thank you for this debate, which has also touched on the status of mobile and posted workers. This is not just an important objective for the Finnish Presidency, but an extremely important issue for the European Union as a whole. Just last week, a European labour authority was set up in Bratislava, and its task is to ensure that the rights of posted workers are realised, that cooperation between authorities in all EU countries works and that the right to mobility also exists. The representative, Mr Rantanen, also highlighted the position of people with disabilities with great merit. Discrimination is indeed taking place in many European countries, and it is precisely these common policies, dialogue and assistance within the European Union that can improve the position of minorities everywhere, throughout Europe. And this is, of course, an important issue of equality, not only during Pride Week.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u112	Mr President! For my part, I would also like to thank you for the debate and just two brief comments. When asked about European values, it is perhaps worth noting that Europe has also given an idea to universal human rights processes and declarations. The UN Declaration of Human Rights or the Convention on the Rights of the Child or anything else represents to a great extent the issues on which we are working today. It is very good to note that, for example, on the African continent, if you look at the work of the African Union, the question of democracy and the defence of democracy have grown to very strong proportions. Take a look at their recent Sudanese policy and the comments on how other African countries have responded to the actions of the Sudanese military regime. And then, at the very end of the day, Mr President, when much has been asked about how Finland promotes climate objectives on a global scale: During our presidency, for example, the forthcoming UN General Assembly in the autumn is a very important forum and it is good that these issues are discussed there at the level of Heads of State. Finland has a very important role to play when we can tell and try to influence other countries that they are equally ambitious about our own government programme and its carbon neutrality objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u113	Mr President! Thank you, too, on my own behalf. I would also like to remind you that the EU is indeed the largest free trade area in the world. When asked why Finland wants to be bigger in the world as a whole, why do we want to increase our visibility, international presence, precisely because Finland too has lived and will live on exports, and so does the European Union. In that sense too, the Government Programme and this programme, which assumes that we are ambitious, contribute to the fact that the European Union is also a strong international player, is and will be important in Finland, all over Finland, because we need that export income in every place.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-26-ps-23.u114	An item 4 of the order of business is presented from the list of additional items for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 27 June 2019. The Council of Presidents proposes that the procedure for the sole reading of the amending budget be as follows: the representative who intends to propose amendments to the report of the Committee on Finance must submit his amendment to the central assembly. The amendments must be submitted to the Central Assembly by 10 a.m. on Thursday 27 June 2019 at the latest. The debate will begin with a general debate with a rapid response, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. In addition, the President may, in the order in which he is considering, issue replies for a period of 1 or 2 minutes. The vote will take place on Friday 28 June at 10 a.m. It will be discussed in detail. The vote shall be taken on the basis of a voting book, which shall contain all the amendments tabled by the deadline. The President shall give the floor for a proposal and the statement of support shall be used immediately after the proposal has been made. The representative can make all his proposals at once. When making a proposal, simply referring to the number of the amendment is sufficient. There is no need to use the speech button. When all proposals and votes have been put to the vote, they shall be put to the vote in the order of the voting book. To the extent that no amendments to the draft amending budget have been proposed, it shall be deemed to have been adopted in accordance with the report of the Committee on Finance.
