ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 21/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 5 March 2019. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u2	Mr President! I'm going to make a motion for a change in line with the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u3	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u4	Ville Tavio, supported by Leena Mere, has proposed that the article be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u5	Mr President! I'm going to make a motion for a change in line with the objection to delete the section.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u6	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u7	Ville Tavio, supported by Leena Mere, has proposed that the article be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u8	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report TyVM 16/2018 vp by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 5 March 2019. In the debate, Rami Lehto, supported by Jani Mäkelä, has proposed that Parliament approve the statement of objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u9	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 37/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Congressman Magpie. — Mr Harakka, I must now make sure that the President of the Chamber wishes to make a presentation. There's no record here, but does Congressman Kiviranta want to make a motion like that?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u10	Mr President! I would like to speak briefly, and there is an indication of that. May I speak?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u11	That's what I was serving. Mr Kiviranta, you have the floor. Since you are the President of the Section, you will receive a presentation if you wish.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u12	Mr President! This is a question of incorporating the regulation of a new form of investment, investment vehicle, equity savings account and capitalisation agreements into the law. This package of legislation has been dealt with in the Committee on Budgets so that we present it for adoption as practically unchanged. There are some technical changes here, but in substance the proposal is that Parliament should adopt this package of laws without amendment. This committee's report contains an objection, which also contains four proposals for statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u13	Mr Harakka, you have the floor now. — — — — The introduction can be done on the spot, as Mr Kiviranta has just done.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u14	Mr President! I do believe that this is a bill of such importance, and in that way a bill that changes Finnish tax policy, that it deserves a little more detailed intervention from here on the floor. As we know, the principle of a good tax policy is quite simple. It includes high tax bases and low tax rates. This familiar and perhaps cliché-like principle actually contains an even more interesting and important extension, namely that the tight tax bases allow for low tax rates. In other words, reductions in income tax on small wages and pensions will not be possible unless the tax base is concise, unless the tax can be collected where it should be collected, unless the tax is paid by those who are liable to pay the tax. In this respect, the stock savings account is a rather failed presentation. It cuts the tax base and reduces tax revenues estimated by the Ministry of Finance to EUR 160 million per year [Interjection] This surprises many who are in favour of a share savings account and, like me, are also in favour of saving shares. The objection is that, at some point in time, those taxes on these equity savings account investments will be paid despite the fact that dividends will not be taxed and the increase in value will not be taxed. But this may not happen. First of all, there is no reason to lend no interest-free loans to anyone for decades, but secondly, a large proportion of these equity savings accounts will end up on more favourable terms than in the taxing of direct investments through inheritance or gift decades later. It is also possible that those accounts will be raised abroad either under zero tax or very low tax conditions and will not be accessible to the Finnish tax authorities. Here are the main reasons why the tax deferral advantage is a significant advantage and leads to significant tax losses and also does not apply to foreign holders of a Finnish investment account. Mr President! I now draw Parliament's attention to a risk that has not yet been adequately addressed in this Chamber, even though the equity savings account has been dealt with on many occasions. It can be considered a high risk that foreign equity savings accounts and similar investment accounts may be assimilated to this Finnish intended account. Indeed, EU law prevents discrimination against foreign investors and investment products. A parallel tax treatment could result in dividends paid to foreign investment accounts being exempt from tax as a result of this change, and subsequent deductions would normally not be taxed in Finland because of tax treaties. In addition, this comparison could result in Finns getting tax benefits similar to foreign investors when investing in foreign investment accounts. For example, foreign investment accounts, such as the Swedish ISK account, typically do not have a proposed ceiling of EUR 50000 for investments. Therefore, it would even result in Finnish service providers’ share savings accounts not being competitive in relation to foreign investment accounts and investment flows abroad. So, in a nutshell, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a good purpose in the equity savings account has been that Finns invest in Finnish shares, but unfortunately it may happen that foreign investors get a tax advantage from Finland that they would not otherwise receive, or even that Finnish investments flow abroad into similar accounts if they are compared to this current stock savings account. The risk is significant and has not been adequately investigated in the government proposal, nor has the committee's report. As stated in the committee’s report, ‘the introduction of an individual Finnish concept for a share savings account has been introduced. It shall not be presumed to have comparable European equivalent.’ However, it has not reviewed the case law of the EU Court of Justice, nor has it examined the parallels, which may therefore be, in addition to the hundreds of millions already calculated for Finns, an even greater tax leak. Therefore, Mr President, the share savings accounts legislation should not be introduced in its proposed form, but I would like to protest at the changes in the article which, in itself, support the fact that the capitalised portfolios of up to EUR 40 billion that have now come into force with a completely wild west method will be subject to even slightly stricter treatment, but that the solution to small-scale investment is by no means that similar tax advantages should be reduced to the pleasure of the whole population.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u15	Mr President! When Mr Harakka said that his tax policy line is low tax rates, a tight tax base, there will also be hard rhetoric, which is included in his line. This has been a good idea when Finland cannot save small dividend taxes as tax-free, that this stock savings account is also a means of promoting stock savings for ordinary people. I think that's a good thing. It can be called folk capitalism.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u18	Mr President! This really is a question of the right of every man and woman to do stock saving at the lowest possible cost, you might say. And it is good that a stock savings account is also available in Finland, with which even a small amount of capital can start to engage in something that has been the most profitable of all in the past 100 years, i.e. saving shares. If there is such a small tax advantage that taxes are paid only at the time they are raised, it would be good to grant it, and it should encourage Finns to save, and saving shares is now the best form of saving.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u19	In this debate, in the debate, in the debate, I have also made the replies — I will make sure that I have all noticed — to Mr Heinose, then to Mr Sarkkinen, to Mr Kiviranna and Mr Haraka. And now the list of responses is open, and now it is closing at the moment, and then no more replies will be granted.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u20	Mr President! This stock savings bill strongly shows that the current government of our country has a desire to encourage ordinary Finns to save but also invest. In other words, this in a certain way now gives ordinary Finnish wage and salary earners the same opportunities that they had in the past only for large investors. And I am surprised that the Social Democrats are opposed to this, that a normal Finnish family member, a family mother or a family member could put a 50-year-old aside and thus go out and raise a little bit of his wealth. In my opinion, this is an excellent thing, and I was pleased that, last August, the representative, Mr Rinne, said that he will not knock down the equity savings account, but it seems that he is on a different line from the Harakka and some of the Social Democrats' representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u21	Mr President! This proposal, like any legislative proposal at all, must be assessed from the point of view of benefits and disadvantages. The disadvantages of this proposal relate to tax losses estimated in the explanatory statement of the government proposal to be well over EUR 100 million. What about the benefits? They're left to wish. If you look at Sweden, where there is an even more generous share-saving account system, then there has not in itself been an increase in equity investment, you have simply moved on to using these types of ISK-account instruments. It is not just a question of postponing taxation; it is a matter of real tax losses in the event of inheritance distribution and foreign investors. Instead of extending these insurance cover and other tax advantages, they should be reduced and made as complete as possible of the tax base.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u22	Reply, Mr Kiviranta, President of the Section.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u23	Mr President! I think this stock savings account is an excellent opportunity for an investor, but not necessarily one that each investor should take up, but it is an excellent option. I would like to take up this rare proposal by the Social Democrats when Mrs Harakka felt that dividend taxation should be reduced. The Centre has traditionally held the view that the taxation of small dividends should be reduced. It is said that this is impossible, but it could, for example, be investigated in the coming period. In the 1980s, we also had a property income reduction in force. I remember very well how well it also worked as a promoter of national capitalism.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u24	Mr President! It has turned out that it is very possible that such a right of every woman or every man named here will not, however, be carried out in accordance with this proposal. This was the case in Sweden: it did not increase the number of retail investors in quantitative terms. President! The fundamental question here is that, according to the government's own estimates, some 160 million tax revenues can be lost.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u30	I now give the floor to Mr Sarkomaa to reply to this speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u31	Mr President! In this regard, the representative raised the issue of care for the elderly, and you were very wrong to say that neither the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party nor the National Coalition Party would be responsible for the good care of the elderly. I would like to point out to you that, by Minister Risiko, the preparation or preparation of the Act on Elderly Services was prepared or started, and it is the government that has taken all the steps that we can take to ensure good care and care and humane treatment for every elderly person. I hope that you will remain reasonable when you are debating something that is obviously important to you. It is reasonable that the opposition party should remain moderate and not change the truth.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u32	Mr President! Elections are approaching, and we may be seeing those differences in the value base. Now I have to say that the Social Democrats love taxes. Mr Harakka said in his speech that it is a tax to pay and the tax office cannot get to the money and then it will become an inheritance. When we discussed inheritance tax, Harakka said that this inheritance tax is the best tax in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u35	Mr President! The idea of a stock savings account is to be welcomed, but the proposal itself does not support this idea and is costly. As has already been pointed out many times, the price tag for this tax leak and the total price tag for the postponement, according to the forecast, is EUR 160 million. As has already been mentioned in this debate, it is also contrary to the principles of the tax system. We should tighten the tax base and not poke new holes in it. The experience of Sweden shows that this is concentration rather than increasing the number of equity investors and the investments themselves — the Swedish ISK account is therefore a more generous version of the equity savings account, and that is exactly what has happened there. It is interesting when it comes to experts that there has been a lot of discussion, particularly at the meeting, about the opinion of President Rinte on the consultation of experts in economic policy, but the pot is ringing if the critical comments made by the expert group at the Ministry of Finance are not taken into account, in particular on the tax exemption of dividends and the tax leak it causes abroad.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u36	At this stage of the debate, I will give Mr Eestilä the answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u37	Mr President! Personally, I consider this an excellent gift for small investors for the rest of the season, that they can invest EUR 50000 in domestic or foreign shares and then there will be no tax on dividends or profits. The tax doesn't go until they take money out of it. This is an excellent way, especially for young people who turn 18, which means that they can make a contribution there, and then there will be no tax consequences, there will be no need to make tax returns or anything else. This is excellent, and this should have been done a long time ago, and this would have been a new, significant investment for families. Now we have to go through funds a lot, and not everyone wants to do that. It is indeed a pleasure to support such legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u38	Perhaps at this stage, ladies and gentlemen, I would say that the idea of the debate is not to continue it as long as the Members are able to ask for a minute's reply. No, at some point it will be stopped, and as a rule of the game, I said that requests for the floor were still possible, and then they were cut off and live on it. — A reply, Mr Harakka.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u39	Mr President! Investment in shares is a good and worthwhile thing, and so two questions arise in connection with this law: If it is the most profitable way to invest assets, what is the reason why it still has to be supported by such tax aid when it is already the most profitable? 4 per cent of Finns are those who own more than three shares, and good if it doubles because of this law, but then we still talk about an 8 per cent hobby. The second question is: why do ordinary people not invest in shares if it is so cheap and when it is so inexpensive? The reason is that typically the bank account of a normal Finnish family is 5000 euros, which is not enough. The best way to increase the wealth of a Finnish household is to reduce income tax. EUR 160 million is a loss that is out of place, such as care for the elderly. Unfortunately, it is also out of the sensible option if we want to encourage small investors — a reduction in the dividend tax on small investors from 25% to 20% after this law is virtually impossible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u41	Mr President! Mr Harakka here used a long, good, analytical speech to shed light on these risks which are contained in this system, and from the outset I support the amendments he has tabled in that speech, and I also hope that those Members who are not in our tax section or state funds will also read this report by our Committee on Finance on the subject, because it is also quite illustrating these doubts and also the potential risks as well as the drawbacks involved in this in the light of expert opinions. If you do not believe what the Social Democrats are criticising here, then at least think of the fact that, for example, the Legislative Review Council has stated that this equity savings account does not contribute to the transparency and simplicity of the tax system, nor does it respect the principle of a broad tax base and lower tax rates and increase investment costs. Similarly, a group of experts from the Ministry of Finance took a very critical view of this. All in all, this proposal will also add to the income gap once again, and this issue of income differentials is also stated in the report of our committee in so far as it has been accepted by the government parties. But, Mr President, that is what I say — we have discussed this issue in this Chamber before, and I will not go into unnecessary repetition of what has been brought here earlier — and I would like to reiterate here the fact that we all know that, in the coming period, for example, economic signs seem to be losing ground and we will inevitably face many choices and difficult solutions. And if there is a risk here too, according to the government's own proposal, in which such a static estimate has been made that the tax loss is 160 million, then I will put the question openly to this Chamber, including the right-wing parties, whether we really have the order of values that 160 million will have to be put into this – especially when this could be precisely the kind of operation that does not increase the level of small investment, and many times it may be much easier for that small person to continue to choose another form of investment, and then, on a national scale, if someone receives a small tax advantage, the State will lose 160 million at the same time. We here in the previous debate a week, a couple of backwards said that the same measure, President, is that, for example, the nurseship should be recorded in the law so that our old people can receive valuable care. At the same time, we also need the home side and many other resources for care for the elderly. And yes, it is only a fact that so far the only party that has not said that this 0.7 is going to be registered in the law is the Coalition Party. It has even been said that they are behind a dimension that is not numerical. So why don't you find out about this? But this is just for comparison. In other words, when we realise that we need resources under scarce circumstances and we need to make value choices, I do not understand why the model criticised by many experts — which, however, is of greater benefit to those who already have better — needs to be imported so enthusiastically by the government parties. Well, President-in-Office, Mr Harakka, in his own speech, described this particular risk of taxation, the concern that we have also been through many times, namely that not only can this tax be avoided or minimised, for example, in the event of inheritance, but also that there is a huge tax loss abroad. In other words, it is not clear enough whether these accounts abroad, for example, are comparable with this one, which means that the owners of this ISK account, for example, can be completely exempt from dividends in Finland — and the same applies, of course, the other way around, which means that Finns can then be redirected abroad. And it has also been suggested that, for these very reasons, because there are certain elements here that attract a form of tax planning, it does not necessarily happen that, through this form, the small person who has not previously invested will now find the possibility of investing in it, but, in a way, those who may otherwise be engaged in such a form of tax planning will find a new hole in this way that can avoid or minimise taxation. And if that is how it is going to work, all the more likely we will have to ask the question whether this is worth it. Is this worth $160 million? Someone here said well before that what the benefits are in relation to costs, and I think that in this case, the choice of values, President, should be different. So I supported Mr Haraka's proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u42	Mr President! When I received the honour of working in the Finance Committee's tax section for several years, perhaps one of the most important ideas and issues became into my mind. This was evident in all the tax seminars and tax discussions we had with the section. That was the idea of what a good tax system is. The first objective of a good tax system is to deliver and implement a fiscal objective, i.e. to collect revenue. The second objective is the principle of neutrality that all forms of action are treated in a uniform way. And the third idea that was well raised by Mrs Harakka is precisely that the tight tax bases allow for those lower tax rates. That's what it's all about. And when you think about the various proposals that are being made, you have to consider them in relation to the principles of a good tax system. I do not think it is appropriate to cut the tax base by means of separate tax instruments that run counter to what we consider to be very general principles of a good tax system. What amazes me most, perhaps, is that if all of us have a uniform objective, namely that savings and stock saving are to be welcomed — we all support it — but if we have a proposal that goes against the objective set — we know what has happened in Sweden, we know what has been said by the corporate tax expert groups in the Ministry of Finance — why is this one way so bullheaded if it does not carry out the task assigned to it? That, for example Mr Heinonen, is what I would like to hear from you in a proper, peaceful and analytical debate. Perhaps this brings us to the heart of the fact that, as has been said, the idea of a stock savings account must be supported. It has hardly been questioned by anyone in this Chamber, but it is precisely the fact that the proposal does not support this idea and is costly. I also hope that, when we discuss this stock savings account, we will discuss it instead of the images that were discussed in the referral debate and here and now. [TimoHeinonen-PiaFive-Hice] What is the effect of tax deferral, which is then the share of tax leakage abroad? If it has been estimated at EUR 160 million a year, it is quite a large sum, and I therefore considered it a good idea for Mr Harakka, for example, to think about what else could be done with that amount in order to achieve that shared goal. That is why the idea of reducing the taxation of small dividends, which Mr Kiviranta also welcomed with pleasure, could be one solution or that income tax can be tackled. It will then be possible to consider the most appropriate way of moving towards the goal. If we can identify common means of moving towards a common goal, why not choose them and stick bullheadedly to some of the proposals that do not match the objective? Speaking of the tax system as a whole, it is very obvious that hardly anyone in this Chamber can show that this particular type of tax instrument is in some way in line with the principles of a good tax system. I don't think so. On the contrary, it actually contradicts them. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, if we have a kind of system in a neighbouring country, which also includes funds, and that makes the system more generous, and if we can see directly that it has not increased the amount of investment itself, how can we imagine that suddenly the opposite would happen in Finland? What is the basis for this assumption? Often when presentations are made, they must be justified and argued. It is the basis of all decision-making that decisions are made based on information, the best researched information. If you don't, this whole thing's gonna be an imagery world. I would like to raise the argument that Mrs Harakka also raised about that tax leak. So when I am also discussing this stock savings account with many, you could say with a large number of MPs in that Parliament diner and elsewhere, it has come as a surprise to many that foreign people who invested in equity savings accounts have been exempted from the dividend tax. For example, if at some point I decided to move my book away from Finland, I would avoid a dividend tax. And according to the estimates of the Ministry of Finance, not any party office, but the Ministry of Finance, the cost of this tax-free bailout would be EUR 56 million. That's quite a lot of money. Another legitimate question I would like to ask, among other things, although Mr Kiviranta, President of the Chamber, is the risk that the equity savings accounts will be treated as foreign investment accounts, which means that the basis for the EUR 50000 investment ceiling will disappear. It is a big risk and I would like to see these risks identified, handled and argued in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u45	Mr President, while strictly interpreting the law, you can speak for many hours.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u46	Mr President! It is true that they are recommendations, but of course it is, Mr Yanar, our joint agreement that we will abide by common rules here. It is a tribute to our fellow Members, that we stick to what we have agreed together, and thank the President for this. Now, in fact, the clock is still running that last speech, but let's actually get it moving. Mr President! In my opinion, the stock savings account is more than welcome. As I said in that debate, this strongly shows that the current Juha Sipilä government, led by Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo, wants to encourage ordinary Finns to save and invest. On the basis of this criticism, which comes from the left side of the hall and now also from the Greens, who, under the leadership of their new chairman, Haavisto, have slightly moved back closer to the centre, it seems to be still a painful place for them to be able to invest small sums of money in such a system, which would give these ordinary Finnish taxpayers, families, family mothers, employees the same opportunity as they have had in the past only large investors. I do not understand why they want to oppose an ordinary person putting EUR 50 or EUR 100 or EUR 200 into this system and wanting to put a little bit of money on the sock. The account will therefore be subject to the tax treatment of investment funds, i.e. the tax will only be paid on income when the saver withdraws funds from the account. In other words, dividends may be reinvested within this share-saving account without any tax in between. I think this is a good system. There will also be a ceiling of EUR 50000 for the funds to be transferred to the account, but that does not mean what was implied in the referral debate in this Chamber, and from time to time also in the debatable speeches, not today, but earlier, that this is just such a large amount of money. This is the roof. You can go there and invest even smaller amounts. This is precisely why it works well for ordinary Finnish employees. President Rinne in August, August 30th, said last autumn that he would not knock down the equity savings account. In my opinion, it was a good, open view of giving this opportunity to Finnish employees, not to large investors, but also to Finnish employees. And this 160 million which has been mentioned here is not a lost tax; it is actually a transferable tax revenue, which is to be paid at the point when these funds are raised from the accounts. In Sweden, this ISK account has worked well. I believe that a member of the Tax Division, a representative The shoemaker will pay more attention to this in his own speech, but since 2012, 2.3 million accounts have been opened in Sweden, and a total of 1.7 million Swedes have such an account. So our account is not one with this Swedish model, but we are now also giving this opportunity to Finnish employees, which I think is more than welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u47	Mr President! Some 20 years ago, a book has been published in Finland, and I think it has been taken from it by ten printers. It's written by Vesa Puttonen and Tero Kivisaari. Vesa Puttonen has been the managing director of the stock exchange but is a professor of funding at Aalto University, and Tero Kivisaari has been in many financial positions. The title of this book is ‘Affluence — A Valuable Option’. It has addressed different types of investment and their risks and rates of return for a long historical period. It is, I would say, a very good book for someone who has an interest in these matters. It is also suitable for the layman to read, but there is a lot of such insurance for experts, mainly from other countries. A comparison between Finland and Sweden should be made in the sense that Finland is probably 50 to 60 years behind Sweden on the capital markets. In Sweden, households have been active stock market investors from the 1950s. In Sweden, the Social Democrats have argued that it is good for people and for families to have the kind of wealth they can take risks or make different purchases when they need to.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u50	Mr President! The stock savings account strengthens the investment opportunities of every man and woman. With this law, everyone will now have a significant opportunity to prosper. As we know, direct stock saving is the best way to accumulate wealth in a long run. Mr President! It has been suggested that there has been no increase in the popularity of stock savings in Sweden as a result of the launch of a similar account. Since 2012, 2.3 million ISK accounts have already been opened in Sweden. There is no such restriction as in Finland that one person can only have one account, but there can be more than one. And indeed, as Mr Heinonen said, there are already 1.7 million of these owners of the equity savings account. The annual growth rate of this account has been between 20 % and 110 %, i.e. an initial increase of more than 100 % in the number of these accounts, and now 21 % in 2017 and it continued to grow in the same way. I do not know where today's information, which has been disseminated here, is that Sweden has not increased its stock savings as a result of this. In my opinion, it has just grown in these less wealthy families in Sweden, and it will do the same here in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u53	Mr President! Parliament is in the process of enacting a law on a share-saving account, the introduction of which will improve the conditions for national capitalism at the beginning of 2020, as well as the incentives of a normal Finnish citizen to invest in the shares of domestic companies from income that is left on his salary. The gains generated within the share savings account are tax-free, as are dividends, but these gains are taxed when they are withdrawn from the share savings account. And, as has been said here, this will make it possible to make more effective use of the interest rate phenomenon, which the tax authority will receive in the future, albeit only with a small delay. A lot has been said about the example of Sweden in this sitting, and it is good to remember that, but it must also be remembered that Finnish national capitalism has been quite small compared to Sweden. We have more than EUR 80 billion of citizens' wealth lying rather unproductive in bank accounts, and this means a significant fall in the real value of deposits over the years, especially during record-rate interest rates. Mr President! In fact, Finns should be encouraged to engage in popular capitalism. That's what [Quick Five] Mr President! According to statistics, shares are a very safe option for a period of about 30 years when inflation is taken into account. They are even less volatile than bonds, for example. This is also worth keeping in mind.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u54	Mr President! I personally do not understand everything that is said here: investment funds are generally accepted, but then, if a normal person is given the opportunity to get under the same tax treatment, which is the case with investment funds, it is a bad thing for some. And another thing: Your own economic view estimates that if you have more than 80 billion people's money here in bank accounts, that they are not lying or lying there, but they are used by the economy,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u59	Mr President! Of course, it would have been very nice to have come to this Chamber to praise the government for once, but unfortunately I cannot do so. And I believe that I have good arguments for it — do not go anywhere, representatives of the Coalition Party — because I have not heard them from that side. So it is a good idea to make popular capitalism flourish. We all share it, there is no doubt about it, and we want ordinary Finns to be able to invest. It's all right. But when it comes to this implementation, there are a lot of problems here, and for the assembly this seems to be an ideological issue and not an issue based on expert hearings, because I am not... [EeroSuutari’s interlude] Well, one argument is that the example of Sweden does not encourage the placing of ordinary people now to grow in any sense, even though there is a much more generous system. In fact, I think the report even says that there is a risk that this will increase income disparities. I do not remember the exact wording, but this is already telling us who will benefit from it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u69	Mr President! There has actually been quite a familiar debate here, both in connection with this government proposal and with the proposal for a stock savings account from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. And quite a lot is said about images and quite a lot less facts. I might try to sum up a few themes for this conversation. After all, we are all in favour of a market economy, but it is often said that market economyists can divide into two camps: those who are pro-market and those who are pro-business — pro-market, i.e. those who are pro-competitive and market supporters, against those who are pro-business interests. The pro-market approach therefore involves promoting competition, and includes, for example, the neutrality of investment forms, the fact that no tax treatment encourages investment in a particular point, but only in its own right. And there is, of course, a neutral tax system in which the return on activity itself is the reason why an investment is made, and not the fact that it brings tax benefits. In this sense, it is therefore essential to reduce tax subsidies, and it is sad that, for example, the group on company aids did not make any progress. And then there is the other side of this stock savings account that has now won, that is, this pro-business side, which here prefers to achieve tax neutrality by reducing and increasing tax subsidies, perhaps above all to banks, and at the same time stigmatise those people who, on the basis of facts, want to take care of both the tightness of the tax base and the tax system and who, like me here, want to propose, for example, a reduction in the tax level, making small-scale investment attractive by direct tax reduction and not by building such bulls. The second thing that was said here was that this stock savings account would be simple for ordinary people. In fact, saving funds and direct stock saving are not difficult at the moment. It's very simple. My wife, too, has opened such a book-entry account, and it shows that it is not very complicated for anyone. But the question is that it may be simple for the author, but it is extremely complex for the entire tax system. And this complicates and makes the entire tax system even more difficult. Then Sweden and Estonia have been compared, and here too much, unfortunately. The fact is that when the ISK accounts were started in 2012, the Swedish Audit Office, Mr Riksrevisionen, calculated that EUR 4 billion of tax revenue had been lost in euros in five years. That is how much the Swedish welfare state had transferred benefits from ordinary taxpayers to a shrinking crowd of investors. And indeed, when you look at Euroclear's statistics: when this Swedish account started, 19 per cent of Swedes invested in the Stockholm Stock Exchange, and five years later there were 18 per cent. As in Finland, investment in Sweden is concentrated on that extremely wealthy group. Then it is said that it would be fair for an ordinary person to have the same advantages as a large investor who has so far been able to benefit from these tax advantages on insurance cover — there are many, or at least some, who have such capitalisation agreements and investment insurance — but should it not be considered the other way around? Yes, it is true that their tax benefits, the tax benefits on the capital of the EUR 40 billion, are quite unreasonable compared to our ordinary investors’ equity investments. It should be possible to reduce these tax benefits, not to think that it is an example for others. It should also be noted that the Finnish model now offers a tax advantage that is not granted in any other Nordic country. It is that, contrary to the proposal of the expert working group of the Ministry of Finance, dividends would also not be taxed on this model. In Sweden, Norway and Denmark, all are taxed on these investments in one way or another. In Sweden there is a so-called schablonskatt, which is such an automatic, imputed tax on these investments. There is, therefore, a procedure of this kind which is not now in place in this Finnish model. Nevertheless, although there are differences in these models — the Finnish model is therefore quite generous — this possibility of comparison, which I mentioned earlier and which is a serious concern shared by experts, is the one to which we have not been able to answer. I am, of course, pleased that Mr Suutari said that ‘in my opinion’ there is no problem here. However, it would be better, as it were, for responsible legislation and decision-making, if we could at least be a little more sure that this risk will not materialise. I do not mean that this should be a notification of the European Union this time, but that it should even be examined and compared with the criteria on which such a comparison can take place. Because, as has been said, if the Finnish investments in Finnish wealth do not materialise, foreign residents will benefit from Finland and Finnish money will run away to foreign accounts, this will multiply the tax loss already calculated at EUR 160 million. So, once again: what would be the pro-market solution compared to the pro-business solution you have provided is that it is stated that the zero dividend tax on large investors compared to the 25.5% dividend tax on small investors
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u70	Mr President! When I have listened to these speeches, I have wondered a little about why we in Finland are so jealous. If a little one succeeds and happens to gain a little profit, it must be immediately carried away by claws and axes, or by the tax collector, all possible action will prevent it. We in Finland have the basic problem that companies lack capital, that is a fact. If a company — even a forest machine company — wants to expand its activities and try to get capital out of the market to expand its operations, buy machinery and equipment and build a machine shop, it is extremely difficult to get money out of banks today, securities, conditions, and it is extremely difficult to meet, and almost has to have guarantors or real collateral, for example, in the account, money — but what is it to keep in the account if you want to invest? So, in this matter and in the government proposal, the committee has done a good job and I would stress what the committee has said. On page 5 of the report, it reads: ‘In other words, the tax treatment of different forms of indirect investment is uniform. It thus promotes neutrality between different types of investment and sectors providing services. Uniform tax principles also make it easier for taxable persons to compare products.” So this is not a first-time issue for this species, but it is an addition to the chain so that the average Finnish person has the opportunity to put this money into that account up to EUR 50000. If that profit is generated there it will remain in the account, and then, when one day there will be a liquidation of that money, or an increase in the income generated, then a tax will be paid in connection with it. It's a perfectly normal procedure. But in my opinion, there is a somewhat tedious tone in this debate that people do not have a little more chance of making a profit on the amount they have saved. After all, we have the situation today that, as Mr Savio, who has just made an excellent speech, some EUR 80 billion rests on such zero-interest accounts that do not produce anything.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u73	Mr President! As Mr Eestilä said wisely earlier, the Finnish funds invested in the bank are not resting anywhere. They are the value of the bank's loans to, for example, the forest machine entrepreneur you mentioned, so without those funds, your forest machine entrepreneur will not be able to borrow from the bank. And the equity savings account has nothing to do with this funding, on the contrary, because it is aimed at stock market shares, not the financial services of small companies, as is claimed here for some strange reason all the time — and not just Finnish shares, of course, but just Cayman Island shares, American, Swedish, Norwegian shares. However, the basic question remains: why should tax aid be used to support the most profitable form of investment? People are not stupid that they don't understand how to make their money grow, but simply the extra money that they invest is not,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u74	I now propose that we go to the list of speakers, because the next speakers are those who have now also asked for a reply. So first representative Eestilä and then representative Suutari.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u75	Mr President! Here, Mr Yanar raised the issue of the coalition as an ideological aim that in some way we would like to pay as little taxes as possible and in that way such government proposals then bring to this great hall, but yes I still see that there is no ideology behind this, but that we are doing and expanding the opportunities of ordinary people to save money and then in some way to support Finnish stock exchange companies, of course even foreign stock exchange companies. I myself will continue to emphasise this simplicity, which includes: you can put money here, buy shares and forget them there, you do not have to make tax returns on any gains on disposal and loss of disposal, so that then, in time, when you withdraw money from it, you will be taxed according to what you have put in capital and what the current value of it is when you raise money. Quite a lot has also been said here about the ISK account, which is in Sweden, and there the situation is quite the opposite: it is taxed on the value of the account each year, and it is very small — I don’t remember whether it is anything like 0.65 percent or something like this — and then when a person withdraws money from it, then they are tax-free. That is why, apparently, in Sweden, these pillars continue to rise, how much of the account is being used there. They want to promote it, as it were. I would even see this as an excellent opportunity for a family when children come to 18 years of age, put small sums into this account and buy something, even if domestic shares or what they want, and as if financial knowledge and the ability to go about teaching in this way. When you save and invest wisely, you can enjoy it as a parent. And of course when you withdraw the money from these investments out of the account, then you pay taxes, and so I still see, as representative of the Journal, that when this amount, which is raised, swells and swells over the years, the government will receive more tax revenue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u76	Mr President! This is a question of reforming the share savings account and the income tax on single-paying pension insurance and insurance products, that is to say, we have only talked about this stock savings account, and it was given the impression here that experts, for the most part, would have duubied this and would not have said it, but then I thought that I would take a look at my own notes from these experts and then bring them up to you here. Etla states that the tax model of the equity savings account is similar to that found in the funds. When there are investment funds, investment is advantageous. So this is not ambitious, and this will not be very popular, Etla predicted this way. And it was based on the fact that here is this roof there, 50,000, and then on the fact that here is this tax, however. VATT, however, stated that this equity savings account, if implemented, would allow for an eternal postponement of taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u87	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Suutar and Mr Eestilä, with whom it is a pleasure to have a proper debate, based on facts and a genuine, transparent interaction, not on the list of pre-established ideas of paper and, in particular, perhaps the motives of a divided party, are being played out in a malicious way. So thank you for having such a debate, and I will also try to take an example of it myself. It was a good observation to compare these presented equity savings accounts with funds that are already the most popular way for Finnish households to invest outside a bank account — precisely because it is really easy. But that is an exception to our general tax system. It is an exception, since the funds have been granted the deferral advantage so that dividends can remain there if they choose its growth option in addition to the return option. This tells us exactly what the danger and the trouble is. So I have no objection at all to these funds. They've been a good way to save. A lot of kids get this kind of trust as a christening gift. It is a good way to save, but the problem is that if you make an exception to the tax system, as in this case, then it is as if it justifies a new exception, as in this case, when you say that these two are neutral or similar, you do not regard the whole system in which they are exceptions and increase neutrality. It was interesting that you were going through these statements. It actually showed quite well the basic point that the committee has considered that these interest groups, the beneficiaries, are well represented here. There must have been more than a dozen of those who benefit from the creation of a stock savings account, i.e. those who turn it into a business, and then, as neutral experts, they will tell you that they think this is a good system. Not only at this point, but otherwise this is a problem. — However, since it seems that my speech is going to be longer than 3 minutes, I am coming to the toilet to continue this interesting debate as such. [ The speaker moves to the podium] I did not have these statements with me now, but when you argued that the Tax Administration felt that reform was necessary, it was precisely this Article 35b of the Income Tax Act, which, as Mr Suutari well described, at last limited the use of these insurance lines to aggressive tax planning. The fact that foreigners have been able to provide insurances in which real estate and even their own business could be put on these insurance envelopes and thus avoid taxation is once and for all a huge procedure that has caused perhaps hundreds of millions of euros of tax damage, which the Tax Administration has tried to tackle. But why could it not have intervened before? Because there was no law. This is what I was talking about earlier here in the toilet and I will not repeat it, but one big problem is that we have had such a system of insurance cover without legislation, in such a way that insurance that was previously fixed-income has been converted into investment insurance, then it has changed so that no one is insured, and then these capitalist agreements and other systems have been created that are not known by the law. For the first time in this equity savings account, which expands such a procedure with certain limits, these arrangements will also be brought under the law and legitimised without having had a social debate about where such insurance cover is needed, where it is needed by people other than wealthy people who want to hide wealth and avoid paying taxes. These are not criminal activities, but is it useful for the overall benefit of society to have such instruments, and would it have been appropriate to have done so in the form of an overall rebalancing and, for example, even through the drafting of legislation in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on what to do with these insurance portfolios? Now we have to make up a little — and this is the only good aspect of this whole — the imbalance that such products have been able to bring about, and it is clear then that this was the necessary and necessary improvement for the tax administration. Otherwise, the speakers you mentioned were mainly those who benefit from this system, and I do think that we in the Committee on Finance and its Tax Section should take the situation that the financial sector and the banks are marketing these products with precisely this tax advantage, which is to say that they are receiving, for example, massive account management fees covering the fact that the customer is not subject to tax. The fact that various procedures are being marketed that can be taken away from the tax authorities and kept for themselves, or rather the banks, has an act of social morality that we should not, for no reason at all, promote.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u88	Mr President! Once again, I thank Mrs Haraka for the fact that in your many speeches you have also very well opened up this complex package, its backgrounds and the duubious things we have heard from experts in the tax section, for example. In just the same way, I drew attention to the fact — it was good in itself that Mr Suutari went through these notes — that of course — I do not think it is very surprising — for example, the Stock Exchange Foundation supports this. I think that is quite obvious. But then, indeed, these points, to which Mr Harakka concluded that this is a comparison with, for example, foreign accounts, yes, a lot of people wondered, questioned and said that there was a need for clarification here. I had to say earlier, Mr President, when this is a significant threat, that the loss of tax revenue could be more than some 60 million, it could be no matter how much. In a world such as this, and even in Europe where we are currently living, you would think today that even this issue would be of greater interest to the opposition than to the opposition, that what we really could do is not to lose those tax revenues abroad, because there is, however — I will underline once again — that we will have challenging times and that we have things to put right. We need to improve the status of pensioners. We have the care of the elderly, our children and many important things to worry about. And then we cannot afford such tax losses. That is what this is all about. And since I see that Mr Hoskonen will now have asked for the floor, I will tell you in advance — I hope you will listen now — that no one will object to people investing, and no one will object to the progress of popular capitalism. I have sometimes said before that I do not as such like the word ‘capitalism’ but I like the word ‘nation’ and it is important to me. And there are certainly many ways of doing this, but it is not worth it and should not be done so that we make arrangements to encourage precisely that our tax revenues go abroad in practice or that they are not received. It doesn't make any sense. It makes no sense for the economy. And no human justice would be compromised even if we failed to do so completely. That is the question, Mr President. Ultimately, it is a question of value choices. Yes, I understand: this government began its work so — the Finns of Peru were then in the government — that they gave millions of inheritance tax reliefs. Is this the way it is that these values have to be made this way?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u89	Mr President! However, it is a good thing if someone who has money in a zero-interest account today opens up the possibility of investing it in a slightly better-profited account, and then it will happen to him later, perhaps when he retires for example, and then he can even travel a little bit and enjoy a little bit of life. Once there's been a debate about whether they produce in a zero-interest account, of course they're useful. It's not like the bank keeps them there in their bank account, it's selling that money to a forest machine company or a metal company or anyone. But that benefit goes to the wrong person. I do not understand the benefit of a man or a woman waiting for a pension who would wish for an older age, even if a few easier years, could not achieve a slightly better return on his own property. Do I have to give it to someone else? From that zero-interest account, that benefit goes somewhere else. Now it would be transferred from a zero - rate account to the old lady who saves her 50,000 and gets the benefit, and it will not benefit the rest of them. I don't understand this demarcation logic. Does the average low income person always have to be the sufferer? He's the one we're working for. So now he's gonna get that little benefit for himself.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u92	President! I just thought I'd give you a quick answer. I can leave Mr Suutari, on my own behalf, for the last time, if there is not yet a pressing need to speak. It is quite fun to be accused of tax policy when, as far as I know, we have been the only ones in this Chamber today who have proposed tax reductions, even tax reductions on capital gains — that is, a very brisk discount as an alternative to doing this kind of procedure. Now that I was accused of punishing a little grandma, I would just say that there is nothing at the moment to prevent that extra money from being invested, if there are any, in funds, in direct stock saving or in any alternative way other than keeping it in a bank account there. It is, in fact, surprisingly simple and easy, and therefore the argument that this would be somehow new and wonderful in its ease,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u93	And the reply, Mr Viitanen, and then Mr Suutari, is just a list speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u94	Mr President! I suppose it had to be answered now, while, again, Mr Hoskonen may not have said something about the demarches that would be true. Let us repeat once again the Minutes of this sitting: We have an alternative budget, we have a tax programme. In these, according to our line, a low-income employee, a low-income pensioner, an unemployed person, a student would pay less taxes than the government line. Then, in the name of fairness, someone a little more wealthy could pay a little more taxes. It's as simple as that. We are seeking justice and, for example, what has been overlooked today is that, for example, foreign large investors who are now paying zero taxes could receive 400 million from this common fund of ours, for example, to take better care of our elderly people or take care of our children on an equal school path and so on. That is what this is all about, once again. This is Mr. Hoskonen, but he's already gone.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u95	Mr President! Here, representatives Harakka and Viitanen have criticised the fact that I only brought up positive statements, but from my list — I write everything down when experts go there to tell — only SAK and then the Finnish Tax experts were left out when I had not strengthened them. In other words, I do not know whether there were any other experts there than those I have already listed. On the other hand, when it was said that these are all those who benefit from this somehow, I at least have the impression that I trust that: The Institute of Business Research does not really benefit from this. It's no use. Even the National Economic Research Centre, not in my opinion. This is no use to the University of Turku. This does not benefit the University of Eastern Finland. And neither is the University of Tampere. And, of course, not Aalto University. The Finnish Stock Exchange Foundation and these others may, but I do not know whether the Taxpayer's Confederation will benefit from this. Of course, their members may benefit, but if they are included in this list, we cannot appreciate anyone's expertise. In my opinion, these are real experts. And I do not believe that even Heikki Niskakangas will benefit — if not personally. So, for the most part, these were experts who did not benefit from this and who gave a genuine opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u96	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 37/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u97	Mr President! Now we are faced with a bill that is important and which has been awaited in many ways and for a long time. After all, we have very valuable and versatile registration data in Finland and perhaps in Sweden and Denmark as well as in Finland. We have different controllers, especially THL, Kela, Statistics Finland and Population Register Centre. But the problem is that the uniform use of these in the current situation is difficult: when you want to use them together, you have to ask for permits from different parties and there are very great delays in accessing them. This is, admittedly, a very complex whole, and I am raising three types of problem. Firstly, there are very different interests here. There are research needs that are matters of the Ministry of Education and Culture, the needs of social welfare management, the needs of STM and the needs of innovation and development activities on the side of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. Secondly, it is very important that data protection regulations are handled well and carefully, because this is an important matter of personal data. And thirdly, this is linked to the EU Data Protection Directive, which must be carefully taken into account. The solution here is therefore to propose a licensing authority which would act as a separate entity for THL and where these matters would have been separated from other tasks for THL. This solution is therefore quite clear and good, even though this section is a little vaguely written. The unit is in STM's performance control, just like the whole THL. By way of derogation from the principle of THL, the Head of Unit shall appoint a Director-General. When the licensing authority has a major role to play, it is important for the good functioning of the operations that this THL licensing authority receives sufficient resources and powers for its activities. I will look at the importance of the reform from three points of view: Firstly, from the point of view of scientific research: we have very valuable data. These studies can provide important information on the causes of diseases and the potential for prevention. This applies to genetic factors, lifestyles and environmental factors, and it is essential that the causes of the diseases are not solved by examining patients, but by monitoring for years those who were originally healthy and who were studied in different studies and by examining different registers of factors that independently predict disease. Such studies are for the benefit of Finnish public health, not to mention that this gives Finnish research a good international advantage. Secondly, it is important to make use of the information proposed for regional or regional social welfare management. Effective control requires a good information system, which, among other things, enables services to be effectively directed to groups at greater risk of illness, improve disease prevention and thus help to reduce terveys inequalities. The new system can also be of great benefit to health and social innovation, to the development of equipment, medicines and methods, and in this respect in particular, the draft law was greatly improved during the long committee debate. It is not for commercial purposes that people's personal data are sold here, but, on the basis of a reasoned request for authorisation, commercial operators can obtain so-called aggregated, i.e. aggregated, statistical information which helps to promote public health. The publication of the results was also discussed at the end of the examination of the bill, and the key issue is that the licensing authority makes a good anonymisation and provides researchers with data that can be protected. Researchers must then have the constitutionally protected freedom of publication and of science to publish research results, which was questioned during the preparatory phase. The start of the operation of the licensing authority means a major process that requires all support and, in addition to resources, it is important to have a sufficient transition period for both licensing authorities and controllers. There was a long process at committee meetings, during which – that is, in the course of a year and a half and a half and in the course of discussions with the ministries – progressed fairly well, and the law was substantially improved. This applies, inter alia, to this use of data, development and innovation activities and data protection. Despite this, there is a difference of opinion between the opposition, which is at least a little surprising to me, because the information security issues raised in different opinions are quite carefully regulated. Information security is of the highest importance, but the one qualified authority brought about by the new system and its professional anonymisation of data represent a significant improvement in the current, fragmented processing of different registers compared to the security of citizens. At the same time, we must bear in mind the great benefit that the reform brings in view of all the needs I have mentioned. In the field of health researchers alone, this reform has been expected as if it were going up on the moon, i.e. that the current very slow use of register data can be replaced by this kind of organisation of different registers, a one-stop shop professional service. Mr President! It is important to put the reform into effect with a view to the transition and adequate operational resources for the THL unit.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u98	Mr President! The purpose of this Government proposal is to create up-to-date and harmonised conditions for the use of personal data generated in social and health care services, as well as other personal data related to health and well-being for statistical purposes, research, development and innovation activities, education, information management, regulatory guidance and supervision, planning and clearing up tasks. The presentation takes into account the integration of social and health care and the strong impact of digitalisation on the electronic processing of customer data and the data protection and security requirements required by it. We have had a lot of discussions in the Committee on the Future that, as technology develops and new technologies are introduced, there should always be an in-depth ethical debate and debate should always reflect on the benefits, disadvantages and also the risks involved. Too often, a new innovation or idea is so enchanted that it is not possible to think in depth enough about the risks or threats involved. I think that this original government bill was a very good example of this, I dare say, irresponsibility, but fortunately the committee worked much better on this issue. According to the original proposal, people's data should have been shared much more freely and even the anonymity of the information could not have been certain. The original proposal was even contrary to the EU Data Protection Regulation. In itself, the objective of this law is good. I am absolutely not opposed to this law at the target level, but this bill was originally careless and poorly done and recorded. Because of major shortcomings and errors, the bill has been patched up and corrected all the way, so much so that it is already quite different from what it was originally about. I would also like to thank the committee for acting so carefully and paying attention to this, because without this, people's data protection would have been in great danger. But since so many changes have been made here and so many changes have been made to the original proposal, I am afraid that this sort of patching-up has left serious defects and even errors in this bill that could jeopardise people's data protection and security, and if they could jeopardise data protection and security, then this is a matter of concern. As a result of patching up and repairing, the bill remains unclear and confused in some respects, and I still have enormous concerns about what can happen to people's information. I think it is wrong that the whole of Finland is now, as it were, now set up as an experimental laboratory and now we will see what might happen. I hope everything is going well, but I do not think that such a risk should have been taken. I would also stress that the objectives of this bill, why this is being done, are very important. When you read stories from the world, there is plenty of evidence in the world, for example, that the anonymity of information has been dismantled and, on the other hand, that the information has been passed on to those to whom the person himself has not given permission, that is, it has been passed on, and the person himself who originally gave that information to someone for distribution does not know where it has gone. In my opinion, we should take the threat of data protection more seriously and we should find someone in Finland who would take care of this issue comprehensively, because, as far as I am concerned and as far as I am concerned, the data protection officer's resources are not sufficient to deal with this issue at the moment. It would have been much more sensible to draw up a new bill on a new basis, learning from the mistakes made in this process. Mr President, I am not there on the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and I will leave this protest by the Social Democrats to Mr Kiljune, but I have had so much debate on the ethics of technology, data protection and information security in the Committee on the Future that I absolutely believe that the motion for rejection, with its arguments, is well done and supported. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u99	Madam President! Just like the representative. Mr Puska said in the previous speech, this bill has been long awaited and eagerly awaited. And that is why it is a real shame that this bill has been prepared so badly and so poorly, and it has left so much confusion that this whole package cannot be supported in that regard. Mr President! The bill allowing the secondary use of social and health information represents a major change in the use of sensitive personal data. The availability of such information is also targeted at a very broad set of data. It is necessary to ensure that sensitive personal data are processed in a secure manner so that they are not disclosed to third parties. The secondary use of social and health data requires demanding know-how in information security and data protection, as well as the latest information on anonymisation techniques and knowledge in them. Mr President! One unfortunate feature of this regime has been the lack of sufficient resources and not necessarily enough time to prepare the law. This has led to the fact that the drafting of the law has not been entirely successful, but rather to a lack of preparation, and this has also happened with regard to this law. This bill has been amended in a different form for about a year and a half. The correction of the government's proposal has required further preparation at the Ministry, and dozens of points have been changed during the committee's deliberations. The latest version is very far from the original budget bill introduced in 2017 in a hurry. This is precisely why the government proposal should be rewritten instead of quick implementation. Important changes have been made to the proposal to ensure people's data protection. Data protection requirements have now changed significantly and the rapid change in the technical environment has been better anticipated. However, the amendments have not been sufficient and the bill remains fragmented, confusing and unclear. A new one and a half years of preparatory work should have been completed properly and the entire bill rewritten in a fluent form. The future government will probably have to repair the secondary branch even later. This is not appropriate and good lawmaking. The government's proposal provides for a very short period of time for the implementation of the law. The laws would enter into force on 1 April, even if the committee's report could not be dealt with in Parliament until March in the Grand Chamber. The implementation of the law has to be done too quickly. It is feared that the social and health care field will not be able to take part in such a schedule. Guidance and training threaten to be inadequate in a hurry. There are also problems with the implementation of obligations. Municipalities and joint municipal authorities responsible for organising social welfare and health care and others 1. The controllers referred to in the draft law are provided with far too short a period of time to fulfil their obligations. The information necessary for processing the request shall be disclosed no later than 15 working days after the receipt of the request. Such a deadline is very tight for municipalities and joint municipal boards. The proposal incurs costs to the controller, which has not been provided for at all. For example, the controller needs to arrange for an advisory service with a very fast schedule. However, there will be no financial resources for the implementation of the laws, so that the resources spent on it will not be used for the implementation of the services. When the information produced in public social and health care is used for secondary use, it should also benefit the information-producing service system, at least as an adequate compensation. Mr President! High-level expertise needs to be centralised and secured through legislation. The establishment of a data licensing authority and the concentration of activities to ensure a high level of data protection and information security know-how are to be welcomed. They also streamline and reduce the administrative burden. It is therefore worrying that, at the same time, a rather complex package is being presented in which, alongside the data licensing authority, controllers could continue to release sensitive data even if they had to be anonymised by the data licensing authority because of the concentration of high competences. At the same time, it is proposed that the controllers could waive such a right and entrust the task to the data authorisation authority. The security of sensitive information should be ensured in such a way that such information could only be disclosed by anonymity-protected data licensing authority. In addition, the information service provided to the controller should be provided by the Data Authorisation Authority, so that all the advice would be available from a single window. The composition and resources of the expert group to be set up will not be secured on an adequate legal basis. The expert group is mainly required to have an up-to-date and high level of knowledge as well as an understanding of information security and data protection issues and anonymisation techniques required by the social and health care sector. There are no specific provisions. Authorisation authorities should also have their own ethics committee to align the processing of secondary data. Mr President! The Government's proposal does not ensure adequate protection of personal data. The whole of Finland is now taken as an experimental laboratory without sufficient security and experience that personal data is protected under all circumstances. An extensive system of highly sensitive personal data combined with different registers is also risky for hacking companies. The introduction of secondary data should first be tried out in a limited manner, based on the experience gained, on the development of legislation and the adoption of good practice only in sufficient transition and periodicity. Now the timetable is not enough for any testing or phase-out. The Group of the Party of European Socialists has lodged an objection which I have just raised, and I would like to say at this stage that, on these grounds, we are proposing that this bill be rejected. I will do this at second reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u100	Madam President! Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen and Mr Kiljunen raised very important points and I think it is important that they be taken into account in the implementation of this reform. We must also agree with Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen that during this 18-year process this bill has been greatly improved, including in relation to this innovation activity and then data protection. As far as data protection is concerned, I am convinced that one professional centralised authority can do much better, ensuring much better data protection than the current highly fragmented system of controllers operating on different principles. This is not a test laboratory; it is a fundamental improvement of the current system. This reform has been awaited for years. In many ways it will mean major improvements in a very large number of areas and it would be important to bring the reform into force and to implement it now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u101	Mr President! In matters of data protection and information security, it is important to be very careful and precise. That is why I continue to stress that we need this legislation, but when you read as an outsider about the process and, in a way, how those pieces of law have changed, I have a very big concern that there have been even mistakes or such inaccuracies that will then come along the way to the point. And when it comes to such a serious matter, that is why I think that it would have been a better solution in this matter to have re-issued that bill, clean from the table, and originally corrected the mistakes that would not have just happened that there have now been some childhoods or things like this that would then cause trouble afterwards. After all, much has been written about this data protection in Finland, and in particular many experts, such as the Data Protection Ombudsman and also the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Institute of Bioethics, have taken a strong position that we are too confident about this issue and have not dared to face the risks and threats that may be associated with this fact that when a person gives them his own information in a register, then what can they get into from there without the knowledge of this person himself? So here's one threat picture, one thing that should be carefully checked. There is now evidence that this has happened in the world. In other words, this is not just a matter of imagination, it has actually happened, and there have been cases of justice in the world. That is why this bill is important, but now there is a great risk that there will be mistakes that we will then have to patch up and correct. I very much hope that there will be no serious damage to the ‘glue, cut’ of this bill leading to the birthright’s data protection and information security.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u102	Mr President! I would also like to point out to Mr Puska that I fully agree with him that the creation of an information licensing authority and the centralisation of these activities is absolutely essential. We fully agree on that point. But as has been said here in these speeches, it is a real shame that this bill is now in a hurry... Or it cannot be said in haste that this has been prepared for a long time, but obviously there has not been enough resources and people who have been able to put themselves at the level of confidence in Parliament to deal with it so that there are no points left to put this data protection at risk, could we say? In the case of sensitive personal information, it is absolutely essential that such information is processed accordingly. That is why I very much regret this proposal and the fact that, in the next term of government, those who are here will probably have to return to this issue and assess what shortcomings there have been and, if necessary, to correct it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u103	Mr President! This is undoubtedly extremely important legislation, and my own competence and familiarity are insufficient to comment on anything other than from the very general point of view that I believe it is an important general principle in terms of information security that data reserves are not exactly centralised in one place. That is when a telecommunications attack can cause incalculable damage. It is therefore important that the data are distributed to interlinked reserves, for example, so that if one part of this chain is hacked, it does not cause irreparable damage. Another important general principle, of course, is that only the information which is necessary to be distributed on the basis of an accurate questionnaire is being moved.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u104	Mr President! This has been a good conversation. Last comment: Mr Kiljunen pointed out that this could lead to problems in terms of security, but it must be borne in mind that problems arise in our current system from time to time, and I am convinced that this centralised licensing authority will deal with this. Then Mr Haraka continues to know that these registers will now continue to be decentralised among the various institutions and the only question is that, on the basis of the identified requests for authorisation, this information licensing authority will be more professional than it is currently bringing together according to the request and anonymising. Today, the researcher has to ask from various quarters and himself to do this combination.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-06-ps-171.u105	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 5 March 2019.
