ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-11-ps-140.u1	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I would like to inform you that the President of the Spanish Parliament, Ana Pastor and her group, have arrived to follow the plenary session. On behalf of Parliament, I welcome honourable guests to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-11-ps-140.u2	Mr President! ¡Bienvenidos, amigos! — — — — The Incomes Register was introduced from the beginning of this year and is part of a larger income information system, which is of great importance at the heart of the Finnish economy. Its use will clarify and simplify, at the very least in the medium term, the procedures of the employer and the authorities, and it will be a very practical tool in this first stage. But perhaps in this context it is worth reminding ourselves of the importance of the Incomes Register in the wider context of the 2020s. There are great hopes for this, both in terms of employment and in terms of social security. In order to increase employment, the Incomes Register allows people who are in benefits, for example, no longer to be penalised for receiving short-term jobs, so that payments are delayed, but can be kept in real time. Above all, the necessary reform of social security is the one where the Incomes Register is an important tool. It will hopefully make it possible for everyone here in the next parliamentary term to make it possible for the social security system to be flexible in all its stages of life to move from one safety to another — in full-time paid work, job work, fixed-term work, as an entrepreneur, student, family leave, unemployed — so that one can move flexibly and also without delay and without weakening one situation to another.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-11-ps-140.u3	Mr President! That is where Mr Harakka described the importance of this income information system just fine. Of course, it is today's present and future that things are going as smoothly as possible and that information is easy and so is the fact that, in a certain way, people's practices are doing better in everyday life. This is not an insignificant matter in this regard, as Mr Harakka said above, that mechanisms and arrangements of this kind will also enable people to avoid such different traps at different stages of life, that if you accept work, then someone will be delayed or otherwise. Through it, of course, the development of all these things is necessary and a good thing now and from now on. This is already the second stage of this reform that is going on here, and it is not new in itself, but perhaps it is important to be quoted here too.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-11-ps-140.u4	Mr President! The register is part of the Government’s strategic programme’s new operating methods project, part of the exploitation of digitalisation. I also think it is important, let us say, to reduce red tape in terms of improving standards — it is a good thing that the opposition is also recognising this work here. It is indeed true that we are trying to reform the social security system in Finland to make it simpler, fairer and more encouraging, that it needs an adequate knowledge base, an up-to-date knowledge base, and that the Incomes Register will indeed be a very important tool in the 2020s. That is why it is very good that this project is now being completed during this parliamentary term. Of course, in all the reforms, this joint phase, as we move on to reform, will pose considerable challenges for, say, accounting agencies, entrepreneurs and, in part, citizens, but I believe that there will be little difficulty in dealing with them and that this will start to play quite well in the spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-11-ps-140.u5	Madam President! It is true, as has been said here, that the most significant effect of the Incomes Register, which is already a major reform in itself, is precisely that social security can be radically reformed. The Finnish social security system has served the country and its citizens well for decades, but on the other hand, there is no longer a world where 40 years of school leave for the same gainful work, 40 hours a week and everyone has the opportunity to do so. That day is no longer today. Our blue solution is precisely to reform social security into such basic security through inverse income tax, i.e. social security will be reduced as wage income increases, but in return, that is to say, actively seeking employment, as of course, at the moment, an unemployed job seeker must actively apply for work in order to receive support. Of course, when a certain level of pay is exceeded, this basic security is no longer needed, but it makes it possible to what Mr Harakka here also pointed out that even low-paid work should be taken up. And when you talk to people in those turbulent and squares, especially here in the capital region and certainly in other major cities, this is the problem of social security for young people too, that it is worth taking up work in cities where, for example, the rent level is quite high, or then even getting more support than that low-paid job at the moment. We must be able to remedy this together so that the Incomes Register can provide a technical solution. It seems to me that, whatever the next government base, such a reform of social security will come in one way or another. The Blues hope that this reform will also be of particular value.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-11-ps-140.u6	Madam President! Indeed, an excellent reform, and it looks great that the whole of Parliament is on the same track. This will provide an excellent basis for us to carry out the reform of unemployment security and social security during the next parliamentary and government term. The fact is that, at the moment, when a status changes, the authorities will actually have to check out what the situation is and at the same time, in the interests of certainty, unemployment benefit will be suspended, and it may be two or three months before unemployment benefit is given again, which means that no one will dare to move anywhere. If this brings about a change in the fact that even a short-term employment relationship or a job is accepted, and then the situation that is the ratio between unemployment security and income earned through work is viewed online, then this is a huge reform. All we have to do now is make sure that this really is so comprehensive that it can be introduced. On the other hand, we must ensure that it is so bureaucratic that it does not create any additional bureaucracy for entrepreneurs or others, so that it can be introduced very quickly and easily.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-11-ps-140.u7	Mr President! In terms of inclusive social security, this is an enabling solution. This creates the conditions for a better and faster knowledge of the grounds for employment or social security. But so far, this has, of course, provided businesses, mainly accounting firms, with an administrative burden and then with investment. From now on, when we get these systems in better shape than they are at the moment — because there are challenges there — I believe that much more savings will come from this, many times more, precisely in the administrative burden.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-11-ps-140.u8	Mr President! I also see that this is above all possible so that social security can be developed. Our system has now been based on working or working outside the labour force, and it is very difficult to reconcile part-time work with social security, even though we have an adjusted daily allowance. This now provides the means to what Mr Jaskari pointed out that there will be no problem of not accepting a short-term employment relationship because unemployment benefit will be cut off. He will get everything back afterwards, but few of them have a buffer in place, which is why it has virtually prevented short-term jobs from being received. Now we are creating a system which, together with the reform of social security, makes this possible. Here's a good lesson to learn from Great Britain. After all, the Incomes Register has been in place for a long time, and there is also a general security system, which has allowed us to accept one hour, ten hours, 100 hours or any job, and at least one third of the pound is left to ourselves for what is paid, even if social security is being cut at the same time. So no one has to wonder if I'm going to have more of this in my hand now or what else will happen to me after that if I accept this short-term job, but work is always worth it. This is the kind of goal that we must pursue, and I believe and hope that when the great thing of the next government will surely be a social reform, there will be enough common will in this Chamber to change this system for the benefit of all Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-11-ps-140.u9	Mr President! It is certainly the case that one of the biggest projects in the next government will then be the reform of social security, at least if the reform of social security is achieved during this parliamentary term. If not, the next government will resume the process of social reform. That, too, is clear. But each of us, or at least a large part of us, recognizes and recognizes that social security really requires reform, and when you hear the debate, we have similar ideas, at least on principles and objectives, as it should be. Social security must be simpler and clearer. Here too, as Mr Satonen has just pointed out, that all the work must always be worthwhile, we are probably quite in agreement. But it is quite a long path before we get there, because we know that social security is quite complicated. It's got a lot of moving parts, and it's a big toke to get it to the finish line. The idea of this, at least slowly, has matured for me, that when the social security reform project is so big, it may not even be worth trying to do it in just one parliamentary term, but it will then be popular to have at least two parliamentary terms, so that the whole thing can be renewed in pieces — part of the next parliamentary term, part of it will be later. [TimoHaraka’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-11-ps-140.u10	Madam President! I would like to thank the government for taking forward the National Incomes Register, which was launched during the previous parliamentary term. I would also like to thank the government for taking forward the basic income test during this parliamentary term. Of course, as the Greens, I hope that the basic income experiment can be continued and extended to people other than the purely unemployed, and that it could be made national, with at least some 10,000 people involved — from different life situations to people involved, with little better information, and with better information, better reforms can be made. But I will also take up what Mr Kaikkonen has said wisely just now that the reform of social security in its entirety is such a huge issue that it would require parliamentary cooperation, perhaps a re-establishment of this type of committee structure, so that the work in Parliament does not always go to the point where each government, in turn, is undermining the work of the previous parliamentary term only by listening to its own stakeholders, but that continuity and stability would be achieved — that is what Finland needs first and foremost. I welcome the fact that there are a great many common denominators here in relation to the reform of social security as a whole. The fact that work must always be worthwhile here is shared, that hiring an employee must always be profitable and it is always wiser to accept even small jobs. It also reduces the amount of undeclared work. Work is often available, but above all that tax wedge is very large, and there are many other flaws that prevent unworkable work from being done. It is certainly a common will that all the work that can be done is done. But probably the biggest thing that divides, which is the subject of debate is indeed a question of consideration/remuneration. This issue of bureaucracy is also linked to it: whenever there is consideration, it is guided in a certain way and it also involves a great deal of bureaucracy. I myself think that the current minimum social security system could be used in a cost-neutral way through the basic income, so that everyone would have a certain level of basic security, and it would always enable people to work, take up work and also define their own activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-11-ps-140.u11	Mr President! I thought I heard Mr Kaikkonen's praiseful speech in the tone of experience. Surely this is the case that, when there is a huge reform, it is worth doing gradually and realistically and not striving for an overly ambitious timetable. However, if and when the government's social welfare model is not implemented, I would venture to be confident in the next government's projects that, if we focus on pure social war and do not involve the reorganisation of the rescue services, then instead of 3800 pages, we should have a tenth of that bill-making mass forward and finally reach the end of the 2020s. But to return to this income register: it is also an integral part of the reform proposed by the SDP, which is a subsidy on incomes, i.e. support for the lowest paid work. In other words, when we have a lot of tasks that cost less than EUR 15,000 a year, even full-time jobs, such as the work of a metro cleaner, not to mention temporary and part-time jobs, which are not subject to tax reductions, because the tax is not paid — the State taxation is zero at this point — we have put forward a job income subsidy, the idea of which is that you could get more off low-paid jobs than the nominal wage. It would then be necessary each month instead of withholding an advance tax, as it were, and it must definitely work in real time so that a person’s incentive to take on low - paying work seems tangible. To achieve this, the Incomes Register would be an extremely important tool. At the moment, we have a situation where incentives are more on paper than real. There is, as it were, a moral-ethical reason for this, which is why the taxation of paid employment is more favourable than the tax on unemployment benefit. People do not really experience the incentive effect in their everyday lives — they do not have the experience of actually benefiting from the work they receive — but hopefully through the Incomes Register, people also experience in their everyday lives the fact that it is worthwhile to accept a piece of work, even a piece of work, and it is immediately visible in their wallets.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-11-ps-140.u12	Madam President! After all, this government proposal diverged into a rather interesting and wider debate on social security and the need to reform it. It should also be noted that the next legislative proposal on improving the situation of performing artists, which we are discussing today, is also very important, a matter to be promoted, and unanimity on that is a good thing. However, in order to take a position on this broader debate on the reform of the need for social security, the problem, after the reform of social security and health, is that there is also a reform of social security. The difficulty factor will certainly not be reduced, because there are also pension-related issues, issues relating to earnings-related security and, of course, issues relating to basic security itself. And, as we know from history, there are other forces on the same table than just representatives of Parliament. It is very important that during this parliamentary term it has already been possible to go in the direction that, for the first time in conditions such as Finland, the basic income experiment has been tried so extensively on how it has been done. It is also a very important and great experiment on a global scale. Its effects are beginning to affect us. I think it would be sensible if, when the national income register comes into force, it would, for example, be used to test inverse income tax. Then, of course, it has been terribly important that the present centre-led government has already prepared this issue for the coming parliamentary term as well. There is a parliamentary project to increase activity, which is working on materials and alternative paths, which at least needs to be taken into account when this reform is being carried out. And, of course, if these things were terribly simple, perhaps the social welfare reform would have been completed a long time ago, but many parliaments have already dealt with it and legislation relating to it has been largely under way in Finland since the 1990s. But it is, of course, terribly important that this government proposal, which is now under discussion, and also this whole debate on social security, recognise the change in the nature of work in modern society. If we want to increase our employment rate, which is absolutely central to the sustainability of the welfare state as a whole, then we also need to take short-term jobs, to take on jobs. Of course I speak for my own country, Lapland. We have a winter-time shortage of seasonal labor. Then our small municipalities will multiply, the need for labour will be great, but then we will suddenly not get the workforce. Social security must also make it possible for it to always be reasonable to accept a job and to know what is left of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-11-ps-140.u13	Mr President! It is good that we are discussing the income register here, because it is indeed in this Action project of which the representative My corner here spoke well, became one of the cornerstones of social security reform. This could also answer Mr Touko Aalto's concerns or questions about parliamentary consensus and committee work. In fact, the Action Project has been such a work, and we have been working with experts, interest groups and all parties there for less than a year now and have learned a lot of things. It might even be argued that the ideas there have gone in some direction in the same direction. At least it has been learned that what is actually said about consideration or obligation is largely synonymous with the fact that there are services. People are not left alone, and not being left alone includes help, and it may include a small effort to cope with the situation in life. In this respect, it has been extremely instructive for us to listen to the British and, indeed, yesterday to the excellent Danish experts, who have learned precisely how to keep the level of social security high and to really reduce people's income uncertainty while at the same time taking care of labour market mobility and flexibility. This obligation, which has so far been widely understood as red tape, is precisely a link between the unemployed and the administration. That's kind of new in Finland, isn't it? We have a well-passive unemployment benefit — a person may have registered as unemployed, and since then there has been no contact for six months. I don't think it's a good idea to hang yourself now for this basic income. If it refers to traditional basic income, which is like a free transfer of income for all, such a reform is a dead end and impossible. The Danish people said it well yesterday in their seminar: ‘We then rejected this idea. It is an unambitious reform that leaves people alone with their problems.” Nor do we have time for any more experiments. We have too high unemployment and low employment. We need to reform, and we can really go ahead with the knowledge base, which we now have to do more thanks for this experiment, but also for the work that has been done. One thing that has also been learned is that this really will not be one six hundred pages or a thousand pages of law,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-11-ps-140.u14	I would remind Members that we are deciding on this part-session and there is one final decision here. We'll have to take some things off the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-11-ps-140.u15	Madam President! Let's be brief. — — — — Before I arrived here as a Member of Parliament in 2011, I employed the long-term unemployed and disabled as the head of a work centre in Lahti. On an annual basis, about 150 people — unemployed people, young people, disabled people, people of different ages — went through our work centre, and the group shared the fact that the social security model that still existed in Finland and, to a large extent today, was not all either encouraging or taking into account different life situations. It has been gratifying to hear how, before the next elections here in Parliament, there is a great deal of consensus that the social security system requires a major reform. We must also live in time in this regard. The development of the National Incomes Register is of course an important part, in practice the basis for the construction of a new social security system, and we Social Democrats have had such a general security model on the basis of our own presentations. But during the next parliamentary term, I would like us to become wise in this House in such a way that, after our strong electoral ambitions and electoral programmes, we come to Parliament, whoever comes here then, we will make broad-based parliamentary preparations for the big issues such as social security, so that we can have a model that will last time and take better account of people in different life situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-11-ps-140.u16	Mr President! Really, Congressman. When it comes to a good speech, you can say that no one is such a traditional model of basic security, free of charge, even driving to Finland. We have another important preparation going on in addition to this Action Project. It's a tax road map, road map. That too comes from Britain — Britain can learn a lot from anything but decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-11-ps-140.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-11-ps-140.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-11-ps-140.u19	I'll remind you of the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-11-ps-140.u20	President! As has often been said here, this is the first step towards social reform, where income, whether it be social income, income from earnings or capital income, can perhaps be netted even on a day-by-day basis, when people's interests will never be broken. Representative Aalto here spoke well about the consideration or non-remuneration of subsidies. This will have to be considered in the future. Then I would like to comment briefly on this income support, which is the SDP's proposal. There is a correct observation that social insurance contributions prevent employment in low-wage sectors, but there is a problem in this model presented by the SDP that their income support is limited to those who earn less than 15,000, part-time or temporary work, so this may in fact be more encouraging that there really will be more and more of these temporary and part-time jobs, because it creates a certain competitive advantage. It will also be more encouraging for a person to receive this kind of short, part-time piece of work if he gets more of it in his hand.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-11-ps-140.u21	Mr President! So that's what this was all about, is it? Do I have an answer? [Second Vice-PresidentTuulaHaatainen : Reply, one minute. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-11-ps-140.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-11-ps-140.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
