ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-07-ps-13.u1	The election of the President will now be followed by compliance with the provisions of Article 34(2) of the Finnish Constitution and Articles 5 and 6 of the Parliamentary Statute. So the election will be delivered on a full-time basis. Representatives shall bring their ballots to the urn according to roll call, which shall be delivered in alphabetical order. I would like to point out that the name of the candidate must also be identified with sufficient precision, if necessary, using the first name. As assistants for checking ballots and counting votes in the election, I would ask the following representatives: Antti Lindtman, Jani Mäkelä, Mia Laiho and Antti Rantakangas. I note that the votes cast are not made public. The election ceremony started.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-07-ps-13.u2	The result of the vote shall be read.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-07-ps-13.u3	When Mr Matti Vanhanen has received more than half of the votes cast in the election, he has been elected President of Parliament for the remainder of the 2019 Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-07-ps-13.u4	I would ask the President to give Parliament the solemn assurance provided for in Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure. Jag ber talmannen att inför ricksdage avge sin högtidliga försäkran i enlighet med 4 § i arvbetsordningen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-07-ps-13.u5	I, Matti Taneli Vanhanen, assure you that, according to my powers as President, I defend the right of the Finnish people and parliament according to the Constitution. Jag Matti Taneli Vanhanen försäkrar att jag som talman effecter all min förmåga skall försvara finska folkets och ricksdagens rättigheter enligt constitutionen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-07-ps-13.u6	I would ask Mr President to take his place in Parliament and to take action. Jag ber riksdagens herr talman inta talmannens plats och börja utöva sin befattning.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-07-ps-13.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, ärade ricksdagsledamoter! I warmly thank you, on behalf of my own and the complaining Vice-Presidents, for your confidence in us. We will do everything in our power to act worthy of your trust. På mina egna och vice talmännens vägnar vill jag uttrycka vårt täyste tack för det förtroende ni har visat oss. Vi kommer att göra vårt yttersta för att förvalta ert förtroende lä. Our form of government, in which our republic received its final seal, marks the beginning of the summer of one hundred years. Since then, the fundamental principles of our Constitution have lasted time, wars, recessions and upswings. We now have a parliamentary term behind us, which, with its extensive savings, caused a great deal of conflict both in this house and outside this house. However, the work that has been done now offers an opportunity for a more normal time, but we must also keep in mind the challenges facing our demographic structure and global competition all the time. Our 100-year form of government at best creates creative tension between the government and Parliament. Let us use that arrangement for the common good. As President, I will promote a culture of debate that does not cover up disagreements but values the motives of another and avoids deliberate misunderstanding. Som talman kommer jag att främja en debattkultur där man inte försöker dölja menings-motsättningar, utan där man värdesätter andras motiv och undviker att missförstå med avsikt. During the last parliamentary term, under the leadership of President Risiko, we launched a reflection on the reform of Parliament. This work will continue. I want everyone together to think about our work and ways of working. A lot has changed around us in a hundred years. In particular, I want representatives and groups to reflect on the reform of committee work. However, it is the most important part of our work, not only in terms of the content of our work, but also in terms of real influence. Our work has now begun. We do not yet know each other, and allow this deficit also to the President. At the beginning of the work, the Vice-Presidents also share the Bureau's tasks during my sick leave. With these words, thank you once again for the confidence I have gained.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-07-ps-13.u8	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. The first Vice-President, Juho Eerola, has, following the appointment of the Government and due to the arrangements resulting from it in Parliament, requested exemption from the duties of the first Vice-President of Parliament. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-07-ps-13.u9	A point of order 6 will be presented for the sole reading. Paula Risikko has asked to be relieved of the office of second Vice-President of Parliament. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
