ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u1	On 28 November 2019 agrologist from Kuhmo, Tuomas Kettunen, who has become a deputy in the constituency of Oulu instead of Antti Rantakangas, has presented his mandate to the President and started to represent him.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. In a letter to Parliament dated 27 November 2019 Jutta Urpilainen has requested exemption from the post of representative since 1 December 2019 after becoming a member of the European Commission. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u3	The fourth item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u4	Representative Antikainen from the Finnish Parliament Group, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u5	Mr President! Warm contributions to the relatives and relatives of the long-term MP Maarit Feldt-Ranta, on behalf of his own and the People's Party of Finland. Young people’s mental health problems are a serious social problem. There has been an explosion in mental health problems in recent years, but there has been no corresponding increase in resources for health care, and access to care has been congested. Up to 15% of young people suffer from depression, 10% suffer from anxiety, and between 10% and 15% have repeated suicidal thoughts. Many of these problems could be dealt with if society took it seriously. Too often, however, you do not get treatment; young people are abandoned. My question is: what steps will the government take to ensure that young people with mental health problems have the care they need when they need it?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u6	Mr President! I also share these condolences, which were already passed on on behalf of the Government to the relatives of the long-standing MP Maarit Feldt-Ranta. As far as this issue is concerned, it is a very touching and topical issue, precisely because, in the case of children and young people, their access to mental health assistance and support is not fully in order in this society. We must recognise, as Mr Antikainen has already said, that there are gaps in the services of children and young people in some places, resulting in children and young people not getting the care they need. In any case, it is a really large group, and when one in five young people suffers from mental illness, I think it is already a people's disease, which is not sufficiently serious in society.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u7	I would ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u8	Mr President! Too often young people’s mental health problems are treated with drugs alone. Instead of being directed to psychotherapy or, in difficult cases, even to ward care, all too often he is simply given a prescription and sent home. Treatment should be provided more quickly in both primary health care and specialised medical care, but resources should be increased to the basic level in particular. Many young people could be helped by a few conversations with a psychiatric nurse, but those in need of therapy should be provided with sufficiently frequent visits to allow healing to begin. I would like to ask: what measures will the government take to ensure that, as part of the treatment guarantee, the therapeutic guarantee is also fulfilled?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u9	Mr President! The therapy guarantee should include all the pains that man encounters, whether mental or otherwise. In this way, it is important that we do not stigmatise people with regard to different treatments. The guarantee of treatment for every effort is, in my opinion, the right approach. We in the government also had to wake up to this point in the Government Programme negotiations, that this is no longer the case, as if things were just slipping out of here from under the eyes of Parliament. These things must be put in order, and it is clear that there is still a lot of work to be done for the next generation of governments. But the first thing is to make a mental health strategy that has now been achieved. Then decisions must also be made on the treatment guarantee, which you have already referred to. The entire pre-guarantee service menu must also be put in place, and that is why I have now started that this emergency for children and young people is the most acute, so we are prepared to ensure that the erva areas, which are responsible for special care in Finland, now take over this situation with their own expertise, so that the impact of each erva region can be quickly achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u10	Mr President! According to the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health, the cost of mental health problems is already about 5.3 per cent of GDP. That's a lot. The share has been rising and what we have seems to be the largest in the EU countries. It also affects the career of the future, and it is of the utmost importance for young people to deal with it when they are young. But would it be time to think about what you're doing? How much money are you putting into this mental health problem? It's really time to fix it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u11	Mr President! For the next few years, the EUR 60 million has been earmarked for the implementation of the mental health strategy, and then for the remaining EUR 18 million for the permanent frameworks, so that these measures can also be implemented permanently. In addition, 10 million will be available next year for the whole range of services for children and young people, to which reference has already been made. The services must be effective, especially in basic services, and next year we will be allocating EUR 70 million to the practical implementation of the care guarantee. We have to do this systematically. We need preventive measures, we absolutely need a more specific policy in basic health care than we have had now, and we also need sufficient resources for special care. The problem, however, is that basic health care has the worst shortcomings, particularly in the treatment of mild and moderate mental health problems, and if we do not:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u12	Mr President! Of course, when we talk about children and young people and the welfare of children and young people, we must remember that children and young people spend much of their time in schools. Therefore, in the case of low-threshold services, it is extremely important that our student and student care services also work in such a way that it is possible to obtain it in that familiar school environment as well. At the moment, the problem in Finland is that we have quite large regional differences as regards the availability of student and student services. One professional can have 1 to 12 different offices under his responsibility, 700 to 2000 pupils. For this reason, the government has provided 29 million additional funding during this term of government, which is intended to strengthen the services of student and student care at both primary and secondary levels, and thus to ensure that these services are more equally available throughout Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u13	Mr President! Finland violates the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child every day. Children and young people do not get treatment quickly enough, the care chain is broken, and parents need to fight for the child if they have the resources and skills in the service jungle. Of course, that should not be the case. Mental health services must be accessible faster and on a low threshold. The government's future medical guarantee does not mean the same thing as access to treatment. A therapeutic guarantee would strengthen basic mental health services and bring them on a low threshold. Impressive short-term therapies are also needed at the basic level, as noted by the Service Selection Council, which is a section under the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Minister Kiuru, is the government prepared to finance the EUR 36 million required by the therapeutic guarantee?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u14	Mr President! After all, the matter is under discussion there in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and this issue was also discussed in Parliament in good discussion. I assume that the government parties, but also the opposition, want to build a broad common front for the protection of mental health services and access to them in society, both in terms of resources and in terms of this guarantee. So the matter is before Parliament and, as I said, these resources, which I have just described, are certainly very close to the proposals that have already been made with regard to that therapeutic guarantee. The Parliament will examine in detail whether it is still flawed in relation to this proposed therapeutic guarantee as required by the citizens' initiative or what it is. At this point, I am afraid to take a stand when this debate has not yet begun. But it is clear that from the point of view of children, the Committee on the Rights of the Child has pointed out to Finland a long time ago that children
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u17	Mr President! On behalf of the parliamentary group, I would like to express my condolences to the family of our long-standing colleague Maarit Feldt-Ranta. President! Mental health problems are the main cause of exclusion. Very many children and young people have to wait in line and do not receive services. That's why the citizens' initiative for a mental therapy guarantee was made. It was supported by all parties before the elections, except for the Finns of Peru. When the initiative arrived in Parliament, everyone was in favour of it. It would now be possible to fix the services of children and young people at once, mental health services of all ages. Is it possible that the government would support this initiative and change the budget for next year in order to get the 35 million there? In its alternative budget, the Coalition Party has shown that it is possible to find that money. It is totally wrong that when the mind breaks, so many people are left without services. I would now like to ask Minister Kiuru: What is the position of the government? Do you support the mental therapy guarantee?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u18	Mr President! I do not think it is worth creating any kind of confrontation in such an important and touching theme. As I have just said, we are prepared to promote the treatment guarantee so that it does not stigmatise anyone. It's a pain in the ass. We'll have to fix it in the future. As I said earlier, we are prepared to make quite the most significant contributions to the fact that this particular setting up of mind services could take place like a tera-pipia guarantee. I myself have very strongly flagged for this therapeutic guarantee, and it is also reflected in these internal government arrangements in the fact that funding is intended to be used specifically to put this mental health package in order, just as the Therapy Guarantee says. As the matter has just arrived in Parliament, Parliament is going through very carefully what is proposed in that citizens' initiative, for example in terms of resources, and I understand that education is also involved. In this respect:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u19	Mr President! I would also like to express our deep sympathy, on behalf of the parliamentary group in the centre, for the loss of our fellow Member Maarit Feldt-Ranta. At the same time, I would like to point out that, as Minister Kiuru pointed out, there are a number of contributions in the Government Programme to improve mental health services for children and young people and for the wider population as a whole, so thank you for that overall. The work is only just beginning here too and requires resources, as has been the case with the debate. Last week we had this therapy guarantee here in the reading, and these objectives were very much accepted. I personally think it would make sense to combine these, this therapy guarantee and more broadly this treatment guarantee. The therapy guarantee debate has made it very clear that we really have a lot of inequalities in this area on a regional basis. I would like to ask about these psychotherapist services: do we have enough psychotherapists and do we need them?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u20	Mr President! The Minister of Education, who is responsible for higher education, is not here, but I dare say here that we also have a shortage of professionals in this sector, and in that respect we must recognise that we should be able to do better. There is also a need for other occupational groups in this multiprofessional sector as a whole, and there is a huge shortage of professionals in social and health care, as we have seen, and in particular in the future an even greater shortage of professionals. This debate will certainly continue to be marked in the future by the need for experts. It must also be borne in mind that there are a wide range of professionals, particularly at a specific level of specialist medical care, but they should be able to focus on the treatment of these most difficult, most challenging mental disorders, be they children, young people or adults. This way, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u21	Mr President! It is of the utmost importance that when the mind is shaken, it is quickly and in due time that appropriate care is provided, and it is therefore good that a therapeutic guarantee is considered in connection with the treatment guarantee. But what is even more important is to address the causes of young people's mental health problems. If you think that 75% of mental disorders occur in the lives of under 25-year-olds, then the school plays an extremely important role, and Minister Andersson well said that the school is thinking about the measures that can better serve health care. But we should also think about those reasons. Yesterday the Parliament's mental health conference met, and there we saw an alarming figure, which said that, in fact, the mental health problems of young people have started to grow quite strongly during the years of educational reform, whether it is the reform of the admission test system or the reform of vocational schools. These would be two things that I would like the Minister, together with the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, to assess from the point of view of mental health, prevention. My question is this: would it be possible to assess these two aspects quickly?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u22	Mr President! In this respect, Mr Filatov draws attention to an extremely important point. I have seen for myself over the months that I have now been able to act as Minister of Education, how important this welfare of children and young people is for our whole education and education policy, because if our children and young people are not well, we will not have the chance to succeed in the objectives we have set in terms of raising education levels or reducing learning gaps. Today is the first high school barometer published in history. It turned out well that even though high school students feel that studying is meaningful, at the same time they feel a lot of stress and a lot of stress. We also have similar results from the professional side, where concern has mainly been related to the fact that once local education has been reduced and moved to such individual learning paths, so how can we at the same time secure enough support for learners and adequate guidance for its own learning.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u23	Madam President! On behalf of the Left Alliance's Parliamentary Group, I would also like to express our condolences for the disappearance of our colleague Maarit Feldt-Ranta to his relatives and relatives. To this question: I would also like to ask ourselves whether it is always the only solution to make extra money. When you think about the Finnish system today, we also have very good practices all over Finland. As an example of mental health services, I can bring up the Tornio region, where people are treated whole and received by low-threshold operations whenever help is needed. What can we do together? I think we should be able to replicate these good practices. So I ask the government, the ministers: what can we do together so that we do not always reinvent the wheel, but multiply the good practices?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u24	Mr President! That's a very good question. For example, the treatment of mental stress experienced by young people, which can then be seen as symptoms of Union problems, anxiety and depression, has already produced good results in many cities. For example, we know of good experiences in both Turku and Espoo, where these new tools have been introduced in large numbers in the low-threshold operating environment, i.e. at school. And this is exactly what we are trying to do now to get these good practices across Finland. We have very good small municipalities that have put it in order. We also have large municipalities where the service line is not at all in order. So greatness doesn't even control whether things are right or not. It must also be borne in mind that too many people fall into special care. Since the '90s, we have multiplied the catch of special care for mental health problems. It should be closer to 5%.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u25	Madam President! Mr Filatov raised an important question: how are reforms of education and education for children, for example, to take account of the most vulnerable individuals? Now that schools are moving more and more from basic education to such wallless teaching spaces and situations where there is no safe class of their own and their own secure walls, it has been reported that especially disturbed children may, as it were, be left aside and be unwell in these situations. Have you paid attention there to this so that these reforms do not cause further problems for the most vulnerable children?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u26	Mr President! Once again, an excellent and important question. This self-guidance, which has now been much discussed in relation to the school world, does not mean it, nor can it mean that we expect children to have the ability to be self-directed. In other words, in all the skills that school needs to learn, the learner has the right to receive support and guidance from the teacher, and this is an important starting point that we must not forget in the debate on education policy. The Government is paying particular attention to the learning support system. In accordance with the Government Programme, we will report on how our support for learning works at the moment, how the inclusion works in relation to the resources available to the municipalities, and we have also promised that, if necessary, we will be prepared for legislative changes if there are clear shortcomings in the system which should be corrected. Support for learning is also one of the main themes of the Government’s development projects for the quality and equality of early childhood education and basic education,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u27	Mr President! Mental health problems are a major human and social challenge. According to estimates, as many as one in four children in Finland live in a family where parents have a mental health or substance abuse problem requiring treatment. So it concerns a very large number of people. The mental health problems of children and young people are often caused by home conditions, and the symptoms of parents really affect the whole family. In addition to the mental burden, many children and young people often bear responsibility for everyday activities and do housework at the same time as their peers engage in hobbies. These children and young people are often left alone because shame is a high threshold for seeking help. The undivided burden is spiritually heavy and may crush itself. School bullying is also often associated with this problem. My question is: what concrete measures does the government intend to take in order to bring about a significant reduction in the threshold for access to mental health services and assistance for the families suffering from mental health and substance abuse problems?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u28	President! Firstly, it has to be said that this mental health strategy has now been adopted, that is, systematically seen what should be done here. Then we will have to reform mental health and substance abuse legislation in order to get rats into this. The service menu must also be set up. As I said earlier, treatment has focused on special care. People have a great delay in getting treatment for these very simple conditions, which may still be mild in nature, but when the treatment is delayed and the treatment has to wait too long, then the treatment becomes even more difficult, and the time between the treatments may also get worse and the end of the treatment may be too long. That is why we should be able to channel these current resources into modern mental health care. There are decisions taken here a decade or 15 years ago on the way mental health issues are handled in society,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u29	Madam Speaker! Young people's mental health problems are a pressing problem. It is a question of the direction and future of young people's lives, and help must be provided quickly at the right time. Mr Filatov here wisely pointed out the need to address root causes and to consider the causes of mental health problems in order to be able to react to them correctly. The constant, prolonged use of drugs is often involved there in the background of mental health problems, and that is something we need to address strongly. Bringing a therapeutic guarantee would be absolutely necessary to solve this problem too. It is quite worrying that both the ministers responsible for education and safety, both of them, have suggested that the criminalisation of drug use should be abolished. Knowing that mental - health problems are often caused by prolonged use of drugs, this is worrying to hear. I would like to ask now whether you have assessed how much more resources would be required if drugs were to be abandoned and these mental health problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u30	Mr President! It must be said that it is not, because the government programme does not include these possible proposals, which you were interested in hearing. I myself have a complete zero tolerance in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u33	Mr President! This is an extremely important, important issue. Unfortunately, we see every day that drugs are increasingly being used in this good country of ours, and much must be done about this. I have also recently attended an event where it was very clear how much parents also need support if there is a child who is using drugs. We need to focus on this, too. There is no record in the Government Programme that the impunity of drugs, cannabis or any other drug will be waived, so such an explanation as Mr Jokinen called for will not be made, because it is not a topical issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u34	Mr President! I would also like, on behalf of the Green Group in Parliament, to express my condolences to the family and loved ones of our long-standing colleague, Mrs Feldt-Ranna, and to the whole Socialist parliamentary group, who has lost a long-standing colleague. At the same time, I would like to thank Mr Antika for raising this important issue. We know that our children are getting worse and worse. Then it is essential that we discuss not only what can be done in universities, what can be done in schools, but also what can be done to help children of the age of day care. We know that it is much easier for us to raise intact children than to repair broken adults. That is why I would like to ask the Minister, who has already referred to this work in early childhood education: how can we help children in kindergarten who need support?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u35	Mr President! As the representative points out, early years are essential not only for the well-being and growth of children but also for learning and learning outcomes. This government is investing in early childhood education in a number of ways: we are restoring equal rights for all children to full-time early childhood education, reducing group sizes for people over the age of three, and next year, too, this extensive programme for the development of quality and equality in early childhood education will be launched. As has been said, one of the main priorities for early childhood education is this support for learning so that even young children get the support they need and what they deserve for their own learning. What will this government do in practice? We create a model for early childhood education. The last time the early childhood education law was reformed, this part was not done.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u36	Irade the Talman! Å svenska riksdagsgruppens vägnar vil jag också framföra vårt deltagande i sorgen till vår väch colleague Maarit Feldt-Rantas anhöriga, famil, vanner och kolleger.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u37	Mr President! My colleague, Hanna Kosonen, is in charge of this project and, unfortunately, she is not here today. The work is on the move. It will be done, prepared and piloted throughout next year so that we have the Finnish model ready to be introduced in 2021. The aim is, as the representative said, to create opportunities for children and young people at reasonable prices and free of charge in connection with school day, so that even more young people can find their own hobby. There will be cooperation with clubs and organisations as well as with the established practices that we already have, for example, how to develop morning and afternoon activities in order to achieve a whole that also meets the ambitious objectives that have been set in order to safeguard the rights of all children to meaningful pursuits.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u38	Next question, the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party, Mr Ikonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u39	Mr President! First of all, I would like to express our condolences to the family and loved ones of our long-standing representative, Maarit Feldt-Ranta. The Coalition Party, together with Christian Democrats and Business Now, has just tabled a mid-term issue on the government's corporate governance and labour market policy. There is a need for a mid-term issue because the Prime Minister has not agreed to answer any questions on this issue. The Coalition Party has been deeply concerned about the difficult situation of Posti's employees. The post office employee has earned his salary. Fortunately, an agreement was reached, thanks to the negotiations between Heidi Nieminen and Tuoma Aarto. Prime Minister Rinne, at the Prime Minister's Question Time on 24 November, you said that the Prime Minister does not have a role in the mediation of the Post. In retrospect, it has emerged that the Prime Minister's e-mail sent the composition of four wise groups, even though ministers assured the parties to the dispute. Prime Minister Rinne, could you now state clearly and unambiguously whether the so-called settlement team of the postal dispute arose a week ago at the request of the parties and in the composition of the parties? If you have presented a group composition in your own e-mail, why have you suggested otherwise?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u40	Mr President! Thank you for the question. If a country is threatened by a situation in which exports stop, public transport has already stopped, and the Prime Minister has concerns about what is going to happen in Finnish society, then I do not believe that anyone requires the Prime Minister to keep his hands off this kind of situation. I would like to say that there were two different issues at stake in this dispute: this is a collective dispute between Palta and PAU, which was clearly negotiated by the mediator, and then an internal dispute between Posti on the transfer of 700 people to Posti's subsidiary, a wholly owned subsidiary. This dispute held back the negotiation of that universally binding collective agreement in the office of the Kingdom Mediator. In fact, that agreement was almost complete, already negotiated, while this dispute within the Post still interfered with the negotiations. That is why the National Mediator was asked to set up a conciliation commission. This request was not accepted by the Kingdom Mediator, when the parties asked each other to put such a mediation commission in motion.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u41	I would ask the representatives who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u42	Mr President! We also consider it important that an agreement was reached. That is, of course, an important issue. It is actually a question of whether it would have been possible to achieve the goal of yesterday without the sacrifice of workers and of Finland as a whole. Minister Paatero, you have said that you, as the owner, could not do anything about the TES transfer because you did not decide to intervene until the transfer of the company to Posti's subsidiary had already taken place. We have read the following in the Evening Sanomat 27th of November: ‘On 29 August,Mr HeidiNieminen,the President of the Union for Post and Logistics, The question is: how is it possible that: Heidi Nieminen, Chairman of the PAU representing the employees of the post office, has been better informed about the dates of the transfer than the Minister to whom Mr Posti reports?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u43	Mr President! First of all, I am very pleased and I thank the people on both PAU and Palta's side, as well as the mediator and this group of four people, that this solution was reached. This one first. This date jungle, which has now become the subject of this public debate — I understand that it confuses me. In the information that I received from Posti’s management, all — or, in other words, all the materials that I did not receive at that point — have been mentioned as the date of 1 November, as in the public bulletin that we all had to read. There was the small 1.9th point relating to the PAU-Palta agreement. The fact that Heidi Nieminen has, of course, been informed by the Yt law as an employee of the transfer of the movement is another matter. The information that has gone to the workers, as the Yt law says, has not come to me at that point. All these options have talked about changing the collective agreement, and its date is 1.11.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u44	Madam President! Mr Paatero, as you said, it was natural that Mr Nieminen, President of the PAU, was aware of this, but in this evening's evening, this President of the PAU says the following: He was in contact with the Ownership Steering Unit ‘as soon as,from the transfer of the municipal movement and the transfer of the TES on 29 August. “ He tells me he's posted quite a few messages, and he's also called about it. ‘It is likely that more of his assistants and staff than himself Minister Paatero, you have a State Secretary, you have three special assistants, do you now have so many assistants that the message is lost in their communication with each other and cannot reach the minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u45	Madam President! It must have happened that if these calls have come, as I understand it in this article of the Evening Sanomat or the Evening Magazine, they have not encountered me, as it says. The fact that you've come to our corporate steering unit or some assistant, I haven't been able to figure it out yet. I will ensure that, and if this has been the case, it is, of course, a place for consideration and the flow of information needs to be improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u46	Mr President! The action of the Rinte government in this Post case doesn't deserve a very good grade. However, there is a need to discuss more broadly the labour market problems we have now seen at the top of the iceberg. You can't expect people to work on a salary that you can't live on. The fact that wage dumping is allowed in labour-intensive sectors is also absurd for public finances, because underpaid people need income transfers. True Finns have consistently opposed the creation of a cheap labour market, especially through immigration.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u47	Mr President! A very important question, and I would like to say here that my government, from the beginning, stated that such wage losses by shifting from one collective agreement to another will not be accepted, and this is the end result of this dispute: no human was transferred to a weaker collective agreement. And this was done because the government stuck to its promise and carried out that the working conditions of 700 people did not deteriorate in this process. I am proud and pleased that this government was able to do this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u48	Mr President! This answer from the Prime Minister actually brings us to the steak: how to manage the national wealth of this country. You said, Prime Minister, here again, that you have already said in the first place — and even in the summer, according to public figures — that collective bargaining is not acceptable, and so, through publicity, you have also directed Posti that this should not be done. How on earth did you allow yourself to be born in a situation where there were two lines of ownership? What you and Minister Paatero said in public was quite different from what the board of directors of a company operating on behalf of the owner, i.e. the State, carried out in August. They were not addressed in advance or even afterwards, as has been shown. Undisputedly, on 21 August, you have been informed of government decisions within the Post, and you could then have said: yes, no, perhaps, we will see later. We can only conclude what you said through the fact that the notice came from the Post on 29.8. that progress is being made.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u49	Mr President! After the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Post Office — 10-18 September On the way to San Francisco, the Post Board of Directors had made decisions in relation to personnel policy — the government presented its decisions to Minister of Corporate Governance Paatero on 21 August, according to which the Post Board had decided that 8100 people would be transferred on 1 November. the transfer of the store to another company and the transfer of 700 Post parcels to another contract on 1 November 2019. Minister Paatero has stated that this will not happen to the government, the owner will not, and after that debate, Posti changed the situation on 28th, 700 people were transferred, and it was contrary to the clear will of the owner.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u50	Madam Speaker! Prime Minister Rinne, you say the government is against TES shopping. JHL has now fought in Turku in recent days, as you will be aware. In Turku, the City Company Arkea’s 1050 employees are being replaced to another TES and their salaries are being trampled.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u51	Mr President! If all the decisions of the municipalities in this country are to be examined, there must be very different decisions in different situations. I am not familiar with the situation in Turku, but I know the will of this government, and that is that in this Finnish society we should not engage in collective bargaining. And as I said, this government will make proposals on how to eradicate this Finnish collective bargaining business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u52	Mr President! Indeed, when politicians intervene in the functioning of the labour market, a wolf and a second are born and, unfortunately, this has been quite enough. Now that public information has been available and the SDP's memos and decisions have flashed in relation to corporate governance and, as far as I am aware, there are four other parties in the government, I would like to ask you, for example, from the central and green ministerial groups: Have you been involved in blessing these policies? Do you have any opinion on these matters at all? Do you think that the Prime Minister of the SDP and the Minister of Corporate Governance have done the right thing here? Do you support this line of action?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u53	Madam President! Here, as far as I know, we do not answer as different parties, but as a government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u58	Mr President! Mr Orpo, your question seems to clearly mean that the Assembly will not accept this outcome. [Heckling] The very central objective of this government in this labour dispute, i.e. in the two labour disputes, was to stay away from collective bargaining and to ensure that this dispute, involving the 700 people, can be resolved in such a way that the working conditions of any worker are not weakened. That is where this government succeeded, Mr Orpo. That was the success of this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u59	Mr President! The biggest factor affecting employment during this parliamentary term is the labour market round. The labour market round solves the purchasing power issues of employees, but also in the same equation the ability of companies to employ and generate growth in this country. These issues are very detailed in various sectors of business and therefore politicians should not get involved in these matters. Those issues, such as wage issues, should not be resolved in detail during Question Time, but not by the government either. Well now, Minister of Finance Lintilä in Kauppalehti says that not a long stick should be touched, and the Prime Minister said at Sunday Question Time that the government is not taking part. Well, now that the social partners are looking at this Question Time and are asking the question whether or not the government will be involved in the negotiations in the future, yes, Minister of Finance Lintilä, what is your position?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u61	Mr President! The labour market round seems to be becoming relatively challenging, but it is extremely important to the Finnish economy, the national economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u64	Mr President! Mr Häkkänen, the actual situation is in this particular dispute, in this postal dispute, the fact that there were two things, separate from each other, but linked. The first point was the collective agreement between Palta and PAU, which had fallen into a work dispute, to be settled by the mediator's office. Another issue was the issue of ownership management within Posti, where 700 people were transferred to a weaker collective agreement in a state-owned company. This was to be corrected — this government wanted 700 people to be excluded from the weaker working conditions — and this was done. Do you think this was wrong?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u66	Mr President! In the big picture, the situation is that the postal charges have been raised to the clouds, the delivery of mail has been weakened and the post office network has been downgraded, claiming poor profitability. However, the fact is that the accounts show that the actual postal services have won hundreds of millions in recent years, but the logistics services are unprofitable and have cost hundreds of millions of dollars. As a state-owned company, the postal services should manage their basic services as cost-effectively as possible. However, the profits generated by raising the prices of basic services have been used for foreign adventures, competition with private operators and even to finance the CEO's golf share. Minister Paatero, I would like to ask you: have you received the information you wanted as Minister of Corporate Governance on the formation of Post's income? Do you believe that this information has been true, and what measures have you taken to ensure that the prices of basic services are at a reasonable level and that the profits collected do not finance other ancillary activities?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u67	Madam President! We have, as the questioner well said, a number of different questions going on at the same time. Firstly, the Government Programme already states that the Postal Services Act will be re-evaluated, i.e. the law that defines the universal service obligation, the fact that every home must have those letters, the number of days a week, and the way in which we also have the network in relation to service points. This was changed during the previous government when the market was opened up. These internal aspects of Post, to which you referred, for example financial statements and other information, I would like to find out much better than I have done so far in the course of this week. And then on these questions, how Posti has acted in the past, including this question of going to Russia and other such experiments that have then been pulled down. These have been done before,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u68	Business Now also has a question on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u69	Congressman Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u70	Madam President! First of all, my condolences for the disappearance of Congressman Maarit Feldt-Ranta. During the last term of government, dozens were heard, if not hundreds, of times that things were poorly prepared. That's why they got ministers new assistants. At the moment, Minister Paatero, you have Valtteri Aaltonen, Secretary of State, who is a legal lawyer; Lauri Finér, a tax policy expert; Minna Salminen, who has been the negotiator of JHL and has been involved in a wide range of Ay movements; you have Paul Kukkonen, who was in charge of managing the owner, and the owner steering unit has 15 people, two of them, [Department :Oh! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u71	Madam President! Just as Mr Harkimo said, there are quite a few companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u74	Mr President! It is a good thing that an agreement has been reached, but there has been a lot of concern about this: just how Finland has suffered from this situation in recent weeks, what kind of information has been given to Parliament, what the role of the government has played in these wage negotiations and what kind of corporate governance is. I will therefore take this last question in relation to this corporate governance. Finnish national property, which is in state-owned companies, deserves high-quality corporate governance. The property of the billions cannot be managed as much as it is. Ownership guidance must be long-term in general. So I ask the minister concerned: what are you going to do now in this situation to restore confidence in state ownership control?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u75	Madam President! I have just said a little bit that the main policy line is the decision in principle on ownership policy,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u76	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 4/2019 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u77	Madam President! The Office of the Data Protection Supervisor is an independent and independent institution that safeguards the rights and freedoms of persons with regard to the processing of personal data. This is important work. In its report, the Administrative Committee states that: The Office of the Data Protection Supervisor has made positive progress but continues to stress the need to ensure sufficient resources. This is a very important point because, in the current online era, data protection is becoming even more important. In its report, the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman states that data protection is a success factor for us, both for individual citizens and for businesses, for example. Mr President! We held a referral debate in September on this Annual Activity Report of the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman 2018. One of the subjects raised at that time was the uncertainty and lack of information to which the Chancellor of Justice has drawn attention in the past, and that is something I wanted to say. It is about the fact that the online Omanta service does not allow access to the health information of a child over ten years of age, but in practice does not allow access to the health information of a parent. According to the Deputy Chancellor of Justice, this restriction is contrary to fundamental rights. Now that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has become aware that the access of guardians to the Omakanta information service will be improved next year, but even then the parents or guardians of a child over 12 will not receive this information from the Kanta service. I think it is very important for parents to have the opportunity to see the information of their own child and to know what is happening and belonging to their underage child. Many parents have given feedback and paid attention to this because it makes everyday life difficult and, for example, the care of a child’s illness. The exceptions are, of course, individual and there must be an opportunity for such arrangements. The best interests of the child must be paramount, but it must also be taken into account that parents have primary responsibility for parenting and caring for children. It is good that the Ministry has now started to develop this Omakanta service, but it seems that there is still room for improvement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u78	Mr President! As stated in the report of the Administrative Committee, public interest in data protection has increased and people are increasingly aware of their data protection rights. Data protection must therefore be seen in many respects as a success factor. For individuals, it is a question of better protection of personal data and the possibility of managing their own data. Data protection, which is managed responsibly for companies and also for public administrations, is a competitive advantage. Of course, the second competitive advantage for the company is transparency and transparency, which is why, for example, increasing public access to the company's obligations should be an objective. In addition to a positive business image, it would ease the administrative burden on companies and facilitate the work of public authorities. In the work of the Data Protection Supervisor, guidance, advice and communication are essential work. In addition to the education of citizens, authorities also need continuous training, because in order to assess the balance between public access law and data protection, administrative controllers often need help and support. From the point of view of the application of the law, difficult matters may be different situations relating to the request and disclosure of information. This autumn, in the Committee on Audit, we have dealt with the issue of the exclusion of young people, and one of the problems that is often mentioned is the lack of information from the authorities due to data protection legislation. However, the experts consulted in the committee stressed that the problem is that information management legislation is not sufficiently exploited and professionals are not fully aware of the provisions on data protection in their own field, which are scattered across the various legal instruments, and therefore shy about the exercise of their rights. The interpretation of data management legislation is also mixed. According to experts consulted in committee, the legislation does not prevent professional cooperation in the services of children, young people and families. The problems are caused by lack of knowledge of legislation, not by the legislation itself. Of course, there are exceptions here, and the exchange of information between municipalities and Kela on basic income is an example of them. There are only a few provisions in the legislation that allow for an own-initiative exchange of information between Kela and the municipality without the consent of the customer, although the work of both operators is primarily guided by the interests of the customer. There is also no single information system between Kela and municipalities or information exchange and communication tools to ensure the success of individual contacts between authorities. This may mean, for example, that the income support granted is not in the interests of an individual customer or is in line with his or her life situation and rights. In conclusion, the authorities still need a great deal of guidance on data protection and disclosure, but we also have some need to revise the legislation. Although there has been an improvement in the resources of the Office of the Data Protection Supervisor, there is still a lack of resources in relation to the need. Existing resources may find it difficult to handle, for example, timely and adequate guidance and advice, to take care of the time taken to deal with cases that have been initiated and to carry out effective controls. Mr President! In the referral debate on this bill, I also expressed my concern about the data protection of genetic data. Here, too, I would like to raise this issue again, although I am well aware that it may have been difficult for the Administrative Committee to approach it, because genetic information is often considered to be a matter for the STM. In Finland, we have strongly emphasised in recent years that the use of social and health information in research and innovation activities should be made easier. Finland has a great opportunity here to create a new face, because we have high-quality information resources, good systems and the opportunity to work effectively and people trust research. A good starting point has been the availability of a particularly favourable population in Finland, a small country. At the same time, it has been considered necessary to act quickly, as other countries are also in the race for international research and innovation inputs. However, as I understand it, the new EU data protection legislation puts obstacles in the way of extensive data collection. Its philosophy of departure is that once genetic data is so valuable, it would be better to collect it with caution and a little bit at a time, clearly disclosing and defining the use in advance. At the same time, awareness of the importance of data protection has increased as scandals have been revealed around the world about data protection breaches and the lax level of data protection. In particular, with regard to genetic data, snow snowed in Iceland due to the failure of the biobank and the problems encountered in Scotland. Serious concerns have arisen as to whether genetic information can be anonymised with certainty, i.e. that it is impossible to identify the samplers. On the other hand, it should also be asked whether there is a risk that this information will be disseminated to those to whom it is not intended. Genetic knowledge is valuable and sensitive health information that is of great interest to a wide range of actors, even criminals, and therefore must not under any circumstances fall into the wrong hands. Mr President! I believe that an example of lax thinking about data collection in the social and health services was the so-called secondary law adopted at the end of the last period, which was intended to make it easier to collect social and health information and, above all, to forward it from one door to another for international use. Thus, the purpose of this second pillar was to create up-to-date and harmonised conditions for the use of personal data generated in social and health care services and other personal data related to health and well-being: statistics, studies, development and innovation activities, education, information management, regulatory guidance and supervision, planning and clearing up tasks. All very good goals. But the government's original proposal had almost completely forgotten data protection issues, and it was even contrary to the EU Data Protection Regulation. Due to major shortcomings and errors, the bill was patched up and corrected so much that, in the end, it was quite different from what it was originally about. Without the intervention of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, people's data protection would have been at great risk. I hope this season that the government will not be sending out such ill-prepared legislative proposals. However, since so many changes were made to the other Member States during the committee procedure and, in addition, with a fast timetable, there is a risk that there were serious losses and even errors in the law that could jeopardise people's data protection. As a result of patching up and repairing, the bill was unclear and confused in some respects, and I was concerned about what could happen to people’s information. I hope nothing bad happens and everything goes well, but I do not think that such a risk should have been taken. I very much hope that this will not happen again when, for example, legislative proposals about the genome centre and the conditions for the processing of genome data are discussed. Mr President! In conclusion, I would like to say that when you read stories from the world, we are beginning to have quite a lot of evidence that even the anonymity of genetic data has been dismantled and, on the other hand, that information has been passed on to those to whom the person himself has not given permission to share them. I believe that we should take more seriously the risks of data protection related to genetic technology, and this should lead to the finding of someone who would take full account of this issue. I read the report by the Administrative Committee on the workload of the Data Protection Supervisor, and I doubt whether the resources of the Data Protection Supervisor are sufficient to take over this vast, very complex and difficult issue. In any case, the head cannot be put in the brush and the protection of genetic data would require an urgent and thorough effort. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u79	Madam President! Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen and Mr Aittakumpu spoke very well before him, and there is not much to add, but perhaps a few points of view. Mr President! I am also concerned that data protection must not prevent the flow of information within families. Yes, parents must have responsibility and also the opportunity to care for the affairs of their own children so that children can grow up in a healthy and safe environment. Then again, the difficulty of the authorities working with children and young people in communicating information to each other – as Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen described above – is indeed very much due to the fact that data protection legislation is not known. Yes, these things, if anything, need to be put right in this society. It cannot be that the school, for example in the teacher's room, is having a multi-professional discussion and wondering what is wrong with a young person, and at the same time all the children on the other side of the corridor know what the root of the problems is. In other words, such data protection barriers, which are not necessarily even real legal barriers, must be overcome by training and education. Mr President! However, the real big data protection challenge for us comes from the fact that we have moved to such a time of electronic communication and we are all constantly connected through our own mobile devices to that Internet, the global community, and, with our own legal consent, we will certainly continue to disclose our own information, whether it is about our own location, whether it is about our interests or our political opinions — well, it is very natural for us representatives to present our own political opinions. These companies, which then collect information, get a very detailed and comprehensive picture of the kind of people we are and the stages we face in our everyday lives, and this is certainly the big question. However, this is not in any way dealt with in this report by the Data Protection Supervisor or in the report by the Administrative Committee. This is, of course, such a big question, Mr President, that we have no one to give a sudden recipe for how to get these issues right, but this issue should not be ignored. Here, of course, the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman does a very good job with its own resources and formally supervises those who should be monitored, but there is little to do with alcohol control.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u80	Mr President! The previous speeches drew attention to important issues, and I come a little from my own perspective, namely that in this present digitalised information society, the Data Protection Supervisor is doing the most important work, particularly from the point of view of consumers and citizens. These issues became familiar during the last period — and are in a fresh memory — with the Committee on Transport and Communications, where the Data Protection Supervisor was often making statements on matters relating to communication. Like the Administrative Committee, I am concerned that the resources to carry out this vital task are not at the level they should be. In my view, why resources should be secured, in particular, is that, even if there are powers to act, the Data Protection Supervisor is not effectively able to carry out his duties. There are no conditions for this unless there is sufficient human resources. The powers won't help then. As far as my professional background is concerned, I know that these issues are very complex, time-consuming and knowledge-intensive. If the person asking questions and the person asking questions does not know what he is doing, then the companies and the official machinery will take this as much as a litre. Companies have lobbyists and high-paid lawyers, and the primary interest of the state administration in these matters is often not to serve the citizen. I'm afraid I've come to this impression. I am in favour of a certain level of suspicion in these matters, i.e. that companies and public authorities are not, in principle, on the side of data protection, unless it is of benefit to them. Data protection is a matter for the state and society, and on behalf of society, the Data Protection Supervisor is responsible for these matters in the front line. We need to secure the resources for that action.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u81	Mr President! We are dealing here with the activity report of the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman last year. Indeed, data protection is a success factor, as is stated here, and it has once been done for the good of man. After all, we have a lot of data protection challenges. The more documents we have in electronic form, the greater the challenge, and the more information and knowledge we have about a person, the more challenges we have. We've been going over them. I myself have been trained in health care, and I remember when it was the first six months that data protection and confidentiality were forged in the spinal cord, in that sense it is self-evident. However, I would like to bring a point of view, that is to say, we should consider, for example, the cooperation in which the data must go. I refer to 2017 when we saw and read in the paper that a driver with mental health problems drove a car onto pedestrians. The case raised a great deal of discussion about, for example, where people get help when the threatening conduct of a loved one frightens them. According to newspaper reports, the driver had had serious mental problems for a long time and had been in hospital several times. He had also committed crimes in the past. According to the media data, the relatives of Helsinki’s overdriver had repeatedly tried to get help from various authorities. Since I was then Minister of the Interior, after the incident, I had a lot of questions about where to get help when someone close to me is scared. The authorities must be able to provide assistance and security to concerned family members. The situation is, of course, difficult if it is a crime that has not yet taken place. In this case, the police's resources are limited. Mental health services also have a high threshold for the patient to be treated against will, as should be the case in a society that emphasises fundamental and human rights. Mr President! In recent years, the treatment and fight against threats has been actively developed both in the police and in the Ministry of the Interior, and this work must continue in cooperation with other authorities. For example, a police officer who carries out threat assessments must have a permanent national expert network of mental health problems. We launched this at the time, after this incident, so that the regions would have the assistance when threat assessments were carried out. In addition, we launched and strengthened this threat assessment team in the police. The up-to-date flow of information between authorities is key to preventing various threats. For example, the police should know when they go on home alert if they are dealing with a violent person with mental health problems. At the time, there was a serious debate at the Ministry of the Interior as to whether there were any problems with the legislation, that this situation has come to pass, and whether legislation would enable us to correct better information, for example, between the safety and health authorities. We already have own-initiative reporting obligations and rights. For example, the health authorities' own-initiative right to report to the police in the event of a threat is an example of measures aimed at increasing the opportunities for exchange of information between health authorities and the police. We then also discussed the effectiveness of the procedure with the Data Protection Supervisor. On the basis of our discussion with the Office of the Data Protection Supervisor, the Data Protection Supervisor felt that legislation was not an obstacle. We also started a discussion with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health at the time. Unfortunately, however, there was no change in this work, and that is why I say that these are issues that we still need to reflect on: how can we increase security without violating data protection, but at the same time ensure that this information is shared if there is a threat to the situation? After all, we have some reporting obligations in the legislation. For example, a doctor must report suicidal or other dangerous mental patients to the police, for example, when applying for a gun permit. Mr President! Cooperation and exchange of information between safety authorities and social and health care staff must be stepped up. That's the conclusion I've come to over the years. If it requires legislative changes, then they must be done courageously, if not, in any case by developing practices. I therefore hope that this will be taken seriously, because although I am talking about the situation that has taken place a long time ago, 2017, I just wanted to remind you that we have these near miss situations and information exchange needs every day. For example, the police are faced with cold situations without knowing what they are up against. That is why I hope that cooperation between the authorities will be further developed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u82	Mr President! It is easy to agree with the wise and good speeches made by the previous colleagues. I myself, as a member of the Administrative Committee, would like to raise a few specific questions about this report by the Administrative Committee. The third paragraph explains how last year the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman's workload, measured by a certain number, tripled, i.e. there were so many more cases to be dealt with. The previous paragraph explains that since the entry into force of the EU Data Protection Regulation, its spill-over effects on Finnish legislation are very diverse, and here it says: ‘The adaptation of specific national legislation to respond to the EU’s data protection regulation is partly progressing. The huge change in the regulatory framework and its consequences have been significantly reflected in the work of the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman, and this is well reflected in the activity report.” As a member of the Administrative Committee, perhaps over three months, I have already been on occasions to hear the reasoned views of the Data Protection Supervisor or the other official of the authorised office on these situations, and I think that these key problems have already been addressed in some of the speeches above. The question is, to a large extent, that the information currently in digital form has created entirely new challenges. On the one hand, it is an issue of individual protection and individual security, and on the other hand, it is a matter of improving the mobility of information and, for example, of speeding up the flow of information between authorities to improve matters in a positive way. On the other hand, reference has been made to it and it has also been made to what new business opportunities this has created. Mr Mäkelä's speech and Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen's speech, both of them, highlighted the critical aspects that may be involved in this business, for example, and these must be particularly careful. I am also a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, so it is precisely these issues which Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen drew attention to that will clearly be the focus of the work in this area over the next few years. This whole is clearly difficult to manage, just as stated in the opinion of the Administrative Committee on the Annual Report, and I believe that we will have quite a lot of work ahead of us here in Parliament in the coming years, and this challenge has been recognised.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u83	Madam Speaker! I could not help but take part in this debate when, as members of the Administrative Committee, these issues have now been considered for many months. These were excellent speeches by representatives earlier, specifically concerning the issues mentioned by Mr Aittakummunk, the Kanta service and access to information for minors. And then here representatives Mäkisalo-Ropponen and Risikko went to these health care information and information obligations and safety issues, so as a nurse I can only say that in a truly challenging jungle we are concerned with these matters. Here comes to this particular question of when this data protection is so strong that there is no right to provide that information, even if, for example, it is the responsibility of the parents for some things. I myself, as a widow, have come across this issue several times, for example, when it comes to banking, I have a duty to care for my children's affairs, but there is no right to receive that information, so that we are talking about very challenging issues. And then, at this point, we come to that bank law and just see that, for example, online banking credentials are not available to people under the age of 15 and then you need them in many cases to handle children's affairs. This is such a multiplicity of networks, which require consistency and even so that it would be in the whole of Finland and not just so that the official then decides where the limit goes. And that is why this role of the Data Protection Supervisor is explicitly emphasised. And now we are talking about the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman, which has one data protection officer and two assistant data protection officers, i.e. three people who have the power to control such an entity, a truly diverse set of issues. I hope that in this Chamber and in this House all the committees will take this into account, because this will affect all of us. Let us keep this resource issue — and this advice and guidance is certainly the most relevant one — so that our officials in all sectors know what everyone's rights and obligations are.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u84	Mr President! Thank you all for your excellent contributions. This has been a very necessary and useful debate. Mr Autto reminded us of a very important issue. I say that not all citizens really know where their own data is moving and how it is used and what it is used for. Digitalisation makes it possible to do a lot, but it also involves risks that not all citizens really know or know. We can be followed, we are constantly moving the spatial data, and we are constantly being made into a variety of profiles that are then used for commercial purposes. At present, the resources of the Data Protection Supervisor are not sufficient for guidance, advice and communication in the way that is likely to be necessary. Of course, the education and information of citizens is a matter for schools, educational institutions and various adult education organisations, as well as for the media and public authorities. But then, if we are talking about safeguarding the information of the authorities, that is precisely what we have talked about, for example, in interpreting this legislation, then it would be good to plan this matter from the Data Protection Supervisor so that the direction would be similar, that there would be a similar understanding of how that law is applied everywhere in Finland. At the end of the day, Mr President: Mr Lindén, when he is there in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I hope that there will be real care there — when it is likely that these various issues relating to genetic legislation will be dealt with there — that it will also be possible to consider whether, at the moment, there is a need for a person in society to ensure that genetic data is protected. Does the Data Protection Supervisor have the understanding, the information needed to safeguard this particular data protection? This would probably be a really important issue in the next few years, to decide soon.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u85	Madam President! There has been an excellent speech here on this data protection, and that is an important subject. After all, legislation is often not an obstacle to the exchange of information, but a lack of education, as Mr Autto has already pointed out with merit. Problems are also caused by a certain kind of fear and overcautiousness. However, we are living in the golden age of the complaint procedure, and that too I myself have been given my share in my own work. I myself have a lot of experience in the matter of police work, where information between the various authorities is unnecessarily concealed and thus hinders the management of matters. Representative Risikko mentioned how the police may have to go to certain situations for this reason, often with too little information. I myself would say that the situation is much worse, especially in the emergency care sector. It is very often the case that very little, practically non-existent, information is really needed to go to gigs there. It is if this significantly complicates treatment and delays treatment. Who will eventually suffer from such a course? Well, a citizen, and I can't believe that's the end of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u86	Mr President! Indeed, examples have emerged here of what comes out of the authority, such that there is a danger of something happening and that it is such a threat. But all in all, I claim that perhaps this legislation should yet again be cleaned up. The Data Protection Ombudsman always says that there is no law that prevents you from helping, but I claim that maybe it will be in those practices, and what the previous speaker has referred to here, then perhaps the interpretation of that law would require a little of that kind of lyric. This purging and wording and interpretation of legislation becomes even more serious and important for us as we constantly have these new registers and new data reserves, just like genome data, our genetic data in general, to which Mäkisalo-Ropponen, for example, has already referred with merit. We are constantly coming up with a huge amount of information about people, and then, unfortunately, at the moment, we also have the wrong combination of data from different sources and making it look quite different, that is to say, this false information system, which is slowly developing. That, too, is where we need that intervention. Do we have enough tools to deal with the fact that there are two different records, perhaps two different people in the worst case scenario? Do we have the opportunity to intervene when we have this data protection? All these things have to be prepared for in the future. The reason why I specifically asked for the floor was that in my own speech I did not remember to thank you: that is, the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman with limited resources is doing a great deal of work, and for that I thank them very much. I therefore hope that, as the need for data protection continues to increase from here, it will then be taken into account in the resources there as well. Then there is also the continuation of cooperation not only between decision-makers and the Data Protection Supervisor but also between authorities and the Data Protection Supervisor in order to remove these problems of interpretation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u87	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 6/2019 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — The report is presented by the chairman of the committee, Mr Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u88	Mr President! The proposal therefore proposes to amend the law on the financing of education and culture activities. The Government has decided to fix the unit cost of upper secondary school education by EUR 18 million. An increase in the funding of upper secondary education would be achieved by reducing the reduction in the average unit cost of upper secondary education. It is proposed that an increase in appropriations be made on a permanent basis. The proposal relates to and is intended to be dealt with in the context of the draft budget of the State 2020 and is intended to enter into force on 1 January 2020. Well, the Committee on Education and Rural Development dealt with this and consulted experts, and the committee is very pleased that the government's proposal strengthens the funding of upper secondary schools on a permanent basis by EUR 18 million. Technically, the increase will be achieved by reducing the reduction in the average unit cost of upper secondary school education. The fixing of the unit price of the upper secondary school will increase central government expenditure by approximately EUR 7.5 million per year. Municipal self-financing is approximately EUR 10.5 million in the increase in the unit cost of the upper secondary school. The share of municipalities will increase by EUR 1.92 per capita. The increase in funding that has now been proposed is, according to the expert estimates received by the committee, very welcome but unfortunately still inadequate. Due to previous savings decisions, the total funding for upper secondary school will continue to decline by around EUR 100 million per year. The Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy considers the proposal to be a step in the right direction, necessary and appropriate. The committee supports the adoption of the draft law without amendment. Mr President! The unit cost of upper secondary schools will be established in such a way that an increase of EUR 18 million will be taken into account in the reduction in the average unit cost of upper secondary school education in accordance with Article 23b(1) of the Law on the Financing of Education and Culture. The technical implementation of the reform has been praised by experts. The above reduction consists of the fiscal savings decisions taken in 2014 and 2015, the failure to revise the estimated cost level for 2013 and 2014 and the savings decisions corresponding to the index increase for 2016, 2018 and 2019. A total of approximately EUR 120 million has been allocated annually to the financing of upper secondary school education between 2014 and 2019. For several years, there has been a difference of around EUR 1 000 between the average unit prices for central government co-financing and the average VOS costs. According to Article 23b of the Government proposal, the reduction in the unit price per student in 2020 is EUR 996, 13. The overall reduction in the unit price of this amount will continue to mean an estimated financial cut of EUR 100 million compared to upper secondary school education in 2020, without the savings-related reductions mentioned above. Municipalities are the largest organiser of upper secondary school education, as 87 per cent of upper secondary school students study in municipal upper secondary schools. The total cost of upper secondary school education was EUR 784 million in 2018. According to the expert opinion, the municipalities are already responsible for three-quarters of the total funding of upper secondary general school education, following reductions in the central government unit price, while the central government contribution is only one-quarter. The new law on upper secondary school has entered into force on 1.8.2019. Changes in upper secondary school education, such as renewed curricula, investments in student welfare and student guidance, and the implementation of cooperation with universities and working life, require sufficient resources from the organisers and a financial system that will enable this. Increasing the weight of the matriculation examination in university choices also increases the pressure on the quality of upper secondary school education to ensure equal opportunities for students throughout the country for further studies. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs stresses that the unit rates on which state funding is based must be at such a level as to ensure adequate basic funding, thereby ensuring stable and high-quality upper secondary school education and the possibility of meeting the above qualitative development needs in addition to previous requirements. In the Committee's view, it is vital that, in the coming years, reductions in the unit prices of upper secondary education can be abolished altogether, which will require an increase of some EUR 100 million in funding for upper secondary education. Mr President! The Government Programme aims to increase the compulsory education age to 18 years. In this context, there is a need for a balanced assessment of the development needs of the whole of secondary education and the cost structure of education. The extension of compulsory education will require significant additional investment in funding for both upper secondary school and vocational education. The Education Committee attaches great importance to remedying the current clear funding gap in upper secondary school education by removing reductions in the unit price before starting to make a binding assessment of the additional funding needed for compulsory education reform. Otherwise, there is a risk that, with the implementation of successive changes too quickly, the funding gap will not be corrected and may actually increase, given the growing qualitative requirements for action. In a report published on 8 October 2019 by the Ministry of Education and Culture, the funding of upper secondary school education must be stable and predictable. According to the working group, upper secondary school education must target sufficient financial resources to carry out statutory tasks. In the view of the working group, the financial allocation system should continue to be based on clear computational criteria and be transparent and maintainer-neutral. The report states that it would be possible to develop the financing model for upper secondary school education in such a way as to take better account of the different operating environments. The Education Committee considers it important that the study of the funding model for upper secondary school should continue. The idea of moving towards a system of national and regional access to upper secondary education has emerged from the expert consultation. The expert reports suggest that the current financing model for small schools may in part make it difficult to carry out justified structural changes, especially in regions where demographic trends are challenging due to the decline or removal of age groups. In small municipalities, secondary school and secondary school often work together, when the same teachers teach both. When assessing accessibility, it must be possible to take into account the importance of upper secondary school for the entire provision of education in the region. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs considers it important that the accessibility criterion should be integrated into the upper secondary school funding system and considers it desirable that this reform be carried out even before the wider reform of the financial system. Mr President! Finally, Article 24(2) of the Finance Act allows for a discretionary increase in the unit price. About 30 training providers have received an increase each year. They are still particularly small education and training providers located in sparsely populated areas, upper secondary schools, small private Swedish-speaking education providers located within Finnish-speaking areas, or education providers whose number of students is decreasing. The actual costs of organising these bodies are often clearly higher than the average costs on which the funding is based. The total amount of funding for these increases has been between EUR 2 and 3 million. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs attaches great importance to the possibility of a discretionary increase in the unit price, however. After all, one of the committee's proposals is that Parliament adopt the bill contained in the Government proposal 35/2019 without amendment. This report also contains one objection, which will then be the subject of subsequent speeches. All in all, an excellent discussion took place, and clearly there was a desire to develop upper secondary school education. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u89	Madam President! Indeed, the members of the Committee on Culture of the parliamentary group objected to the committee's report. We are, in itself, in favour of this setting of the unit cost of upper secondary school education and, of course, we hope that the funding of upper secondary school education will also develop positively in the future. However, our objection was based on the fact that, in the committee consultation, experts almost unanimously raised not only the need to reform the financial system as a whole but also the need to increase the capacity of small upper secondary schools to become an additional accessibility at this stage. In particular, it was pointed out in the expert consultation that, at the moment, when it is specifically about the addition of small upper secondary schools, it may also encourage growth centres in the direction that upper secondary schools may not be of the appropriate size, even if this was the intention and should be precisely that upper secondary school education should be accessible everywhere in Finland, and this change in this direction should therefore be strongly supported. We also believe that it would be good to reform the funding of upper secondary school education as a whole and also to ensure that the funding of upper secondary school education corresponds to the costs involved. As the report presented by the chairman of the committee, Mr Risiko, well demonstrated, the municipalities are already very much responsible for the costs of upper secondary school education. It is also worth noting that, even in this proposal, the majority of the increase will be paid by the municipalities, even though it will be EUR 18 million in total. We are talking here about raising compulsory schooling age, and we also heard concerns in the expert hearing about whether sufficient resources are available for this when the government has set aside EUR 107 million for new obligations and, at the same time, the funding gap for upper secondary school education is EUR 100 million. That is why we proposed in committee that one of the paragraphs in the committee report should have been replaced by the following text: ‘The main objective of the government’s reform is to have a compulsory education age of 18 years. However, extending compulsory education is not the most effective way of addressing the exclusion and early school leaving of children and young people. Instead, we need timely support and investment from the early years onwards. Ensuring the quality of secondary education requires additional resources for existing activities, as the report states. The Government is investing 107 million in new obligations without correcting old funding gaps.” This amendment was also accompanied by representatives of the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy. Even in the preparation to come, our serious hope is that this concern expressed in the consultation of experts will be taken seriously and sufficient resources will be made available for the organisation of upper secondary school education, because if we move in the direction that only this EUR 107 million is available, it will probably lead to the removal of the necessary resources for material fees from the quality of upper secondary school education, i.e. teacher resources and possible other financial instruments affecting the actual quality of upper secondary school education. The actual draft statement of this objection is worded as follows: ‘The Council of State shall prepare a comprehensive reform of the financing system for education and training. Among other things, the preparatory work will have to assess whether the addition of small upper secondary schools can be converted into an increase in the accessibility of upper secondary school education. The new financing model must be predictable and better reflect the real costs of upper secondary school education.” We therefore hope that, now that this improvement in the funding of upper secondary school education, the absolute improvement – and we thank you for it – will come into force, however, the government will continue to promote the reform of the financing of upper secondary school education as a whole and that the improvement in the quality and funding of upper secondary school education will not remain in this proposal. There was a working group like this, which really did not make any proposal then, there were various proposals to be discussed. But there is good groundwork done, on the basis of which work could now well continue, and that is what we warmly hope for.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u90	Honorable Madam Speaker! The important thing really is, and here I am trying to see if there are any high school students there. [screaming from the public gallery ] The Government has decided to propose a EUR 18 million increase in the unit cost of upper secondary school education. This appropriation would be used to finance upper secondary education by reducing the reduction in the average unit cost of upper secondary education. It is proposed that an increase in appropriations be made on a This proposal implements the Government Programme’s objective to strengthen the quality of upper secondary school education and the implementation of the new upper secondary school law. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment necessary for the implementation of the Union’s policy in the field of research and technological development. Just as the chairman of the committee said, the Committee on Culture also welcomes the fact that the government's proposal will strengthen the funding of upper secondary schools on a permanent basis by EUR 18 million. The fixing of the unit price of the upper secondary school will increase central government expenditure by approximately EUR 7.5 million per year. Municipalities' own contribution to the increase in the unit cost of upper secondary school is approximately EUR 10.5 million. According to the committee's expert judgements, the proposed increase in funding is very much to be welcomed but still inadequate. In other words, we are on the right track but not yet there. It is clear that the unit rates of central government co-financing must be at such a level that they guarantee adequate basic funding and thus stable and high-quality upper secondary school education. It is also of paramount importance that in the coming years the policy to support the now selected upper secondary school education, which will reduce reductions in the unit prices of upper secondary education, can be continued. The target is large and requires a total financial increase of around EUR 100 million in upper secondary school education. The path that has now been started is a turn in the right direction for a better future. President! The main objective of the reform of the Government term is to increase the compulsory education age to 18 years. This requires a balanced assessment of the development needs of the whole of secondary education and the cost structure of education. The extension of compulsory education will require additional investment in the financing of education in both upper secondary and vocational education. An expert consultation has also highlighted the idea of moving towards a system of increased national and regional access to upper secondary education. In small municipalities, secondary schools and upper secondary schools often work together, when the same teachers teach both. When assessing accessibility, it must be possible to take into account the importance of upper secondary school for the provision of education throughout the region. It would therefore be wise to include the accessibility criterion as part of the upper secondary school funding system.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u91	Madam President! Many experienced people say that this is not the first time that a priest is on board, but now I must say, Madam President, that for the first time I am here to support it. I support Mr Multala's objection to the motion for a statement and this proposal on these grounds of the law. - That's right, isn't it? [First Vice-PresidentTuulaHaatainen : I am sorry, we will do this at second reading,that is to say later. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u94	Mr President! High school has a very special place in my heart. You always have to be a little careful as a decision-maker to remember your own study or school hours, but I'll be a little brave to do that. From my own high school days, adventures among both new people and mathematical equations, enthusiasm inspired by skilled teachers, a sense of belonging, transcending oneself. On the other hand, I also well remember those difficult moments, the future of being lost and tense. Since then, I have also been able to promote the well-being of upper secondary school students and high-quality upper secondary school education and, among other things, to launch this first high school barometer published today. Similar stories and memories can be found among high school students today, but unfortunately we also know that more and more high school students are experiencing severe stress and weariness and change is needed. The high school barometer published today says that as many as 40 per cent of the respondents feel that studying in upper secondary school is mentally difficult, girls even more often than boys. According to a school health survey published earlier in the autumn, nearly 40 per cent of upper secondary school students have been concerned about their own mood in the past year. According to the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health, well-being at work predicts general mental health. Improving well-being at work and taking individual resources into account at workplaces will support employees' ability to cope. Similarly, well-being in educational institutions is also crucial from the point of view of the ability to study and the mental health of students. School comfort, community and individual support help to strengthen the well-being of the mind even before problems deepen or arise at all. From the point of view of well-being, but also of course the quality of education, it is essential that upper secondary schools have sufficient resources and tools to implement education, support students and build its upper secondary school community. Mr President! The funding system for upper secondary school is not the simplest in the world, because money comes from several channels, and today, of course, is the most important thing to talk about the state funding of upper secondary schools, perhaps especially the part of the system that has led to the funding of upper secondary school education being undermined over the years. When the funding of upper secondary school is strongly based on the actual costs incurred in previous years, the savings made once will actually result in additional savings if the situation is not addressed. Overall, between 14 and 19, savings of around EUR 120 million per year have been allocated to the financing of upper secondary school education. At the same time, the share of municipalities in the financing of upper secondary school education has grown and the central government has narrowed. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Citizens' Rights has considered it essential that in the coming years, reductions in the unit prices of upper secondary education can be abolished altogether, which will require additional funding of around EUR 100 million for upper secondary school education. I think it is very important that a joint commitment should be found in this Chamber to try to achieve it in the coming years, in the coming parliamentary term. One of the biggest educational reforms of this term is raising the compulsory education age to 18 years, which is intended to ensure that every young person receives upper secondary education and adequate knowledge and skills for life and lifelong learning. It is important to ensure that the good objectives of this reform are not watered down by the financial deficits in secondary education, and this has also been the focus of the Committee on Education and Culture in its report. The financial system of upper secondary school needs to be reformed anyway. Of course, cutlery should be removed in order to better match the current costs for the funding of upper secondary school. In addition, consideration should be given to the transition from the addition of small upper secondary schools to the accessibility increase, which could perhaps better safeguard the national and regional accessibility of upper secondary education. This could perhaps be done even before the reform of the entire financial system, which is also necessary, as part of the strengthening of the quality and accessibility of upper secondary school as enshrined in the Government Programme. In the same context, I hope that the construction of a national student feedback system on the upper secondary school side will also be investigated, as in vocational education. Mr President! New curricula will be introduced in upper secondary schools in autumn 2021. Perhaps the best thing is to invest more in the well-being of high school students. The next step is the construction of local curricula. Hopefully, the work will find ways to reduce the fragmentation and content that high school students have been concerned about. The essential thing is to ensure that all over Finland, the toughest experts in upper secondary school education, or upper secondary school students themselves, are closely involved in the development of local curricula. In addition to reasonable workload, inspiring teaching and meaningful content, the well-being of upper secondary school students requires high-quality guidance, special support and assistance in difficult situations in life. Psychologists and curators are also needed for this work and for a closer part of the upper secondary school community, and that is why the Government Programme's policy on the binding dimension of secondary education is really needed. It is necessary to be able to react to the problems of upper secondary school students, stress, and relationships before they accumulate. Similarly, consideration should also be given to adjusting the dimensioning of guidance counselors in order to genuinely provide individual support for everyone in that important joint phase of life. Mr President! Finally, the rate of reform of upper secondary schools has been rather high in recent years. Of course, it is good and necessary for upper secondary school education to be renewed to meet future needs, but it is also essential to ensure that these reforms are implemented and evaluated carefully. It is now important to support upper secondary school communities in pursuing reforms and strengthening well-being across the board. Hopefully, we will also receive support for this work and its evaluation in the coming years through the high school barometer. The government proposal before us is an extremely important first step in correcting the financial situation in upper secondary school education. There is a lot of work to be done, but the government deserves a great deal of gratitude for finally turning around: from the era of cuts in education to a new era of appreciation for education and civilisation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u95	Mr President! Just as Mr Hyrkko said, this is a good start in strengthening upper secondary school education, and more generally education. Upper secondary school education plays a very strong role in further studies. I have not been to high school, I went to university studies through an open university, but the importance of upper secondary school education is constantly reflected in my own life, and there is a lot of talk about it around you. Today we have heard many good evidences of how important it is that we have high-quality and strong upper secondary school education and education in general. It is of enormous importance to the well-being of our children and our young people and thus of society as a whole. Behind this bill there is a very beautiful goal that we agreed on during the government negotiations, and we also attach great importance to it in the centre that we strengthen education at all levels. This proposed increase will support the opportunities for upper secondary school organisers to offer and implement more comprehensive and applied upper secondary school courses. The starting point for the well-being of the child and the young — if you think of the very source of the well-being of the child and the young, it leaves the home, and with education we can support it very significantly. That is why I think it is very important that the government has decided to strongly support the well-being of both families at home and then education, which is what is happening in this proposal. It is important to guarantee equal access to education for children and young people throughout the country, and that is why it is great that the Committee on Education and Culture draws attention in its report to the importance of ensuring national and regional access to upper secondary school education. I hope that this good step and a good start will contribute to the well-being of our young people and thus serve our country as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u96	Mr President! Strengthening education and skills is one of the main objectives of this government. Nor will we succeed in achieving the employment objectives that we have set without strengthening our knowledge. There is also a government proposal on upper secondary school funding under discussion today. As has been said here in many previous speeches, the government proposal is a step in the right direction, but it is inadequate. The Government proposal strengthens the funding of upper secondary schools by EUR 18 million. However, a total of 120 million has been cut in upper secondary school funding and its unit cost between 2014 and 2019 and has also been reflected in the development of upper secondary school education at local levels. The reduction consists of the fiscal savings decisions taken in 2014 and 2015, the failure to revise the estimated cost level for 2013 and 2014 and the corresponding austerity measures for 2016, 2018 and 2019. So it may be concluded that the central government share costs of upper secondary school education have now been close on EUR 700.7 million in 2017. On the basis of these cost data, the average annual unit price of upper secondary school education in accordance with Article 23 of the Finance Act has also become EUR 6305.44 for 2020. If this operation had not been carried out, that is, if we had progressed in that desirable way, this unit price would be EUR 7301.57. And as we have had a debate in committee, our aim is to be able to move into a system that allows this clipping to be phased out and we can move on to the right calculations and the right unit prices. As stated in the committee's report, the aim must be to correct the current funding gap in upper secondary school education by removing reductions in the unit price. This is important when we assess the whole of secondary education, its reform and the related funding. The expert hearings also showed that the current financing model for small schools can affect structural changes in education and training in different regions, especially those where demographic trends and declining age groups pose challenges. Ensuring education in regions, small municipalities where primary and secondary schools work closely together is important. If upper secondary school education is to be abolished in this area, it may also make it difficult for upper secondary school to operate, which is why we need to reform the school network and restructure these areas, to recognise this overall situation that we will not use upper secondary school solutions to weaken primary and primary education. Accessibility should therefore also be assessed, and this situation should also be seen in its entirety. This entity is also essentially accompanied by discretionary financing of the unit price. At present, some thirty training providers have received an increase each year. This is also important, particularly in sparsely populated areas, and in the committee we also had an unambiguous view that, when the funding of secondary education is to be evaluated, this funding and the future of these schools should be taken into account here as a part of a larger whole. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u97	Mr President! Finland has evolved from a poor developing country to a knowledgeable civilised country, because everyone has had the opportunity to attend the best school and school trail in the world, regardless of their background, and upper secondary school is an important part of it. School and education must be the crown jewel of our country, which has, of course, been getting a little dim in recent years. In total, some EUR 120 million has been allocated to the financing of upper secondary school education during the previous two Government years, and I am pleased that the Government has decided to increase the unit cost of upper secondary school education by EUR 18 million. Our Government Programme “Participative Finland” wants to strengthen the quality of school It is important that we also give the upper secondary schools peace so that they can develop their work in peace. What has been the result of these surgeries? The minimum sizes of student groups have increased, the number of independent studies and distance learning has increased by over one third of the providers of education. However, not all students have the capacity to do so. In less than one third of the organisers, the number of deepening courses offered locally has decreased. I find this particularly worrying because high school is a general school that provides a broad basis for further studies and life. When something important to you cannot go further and deeper, the course set becomes more superficial and fragmented. The number of applicable courses has also decreased by over one third of the organisers. I also consider this to be an undesirable development, because the courses applied allow us to apply and use information and learn in a broad and thematic manner. They're building a bigger picture, and that's what this country needs. In its report, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs stresses the need for long-term state aid, which ensures a stable and predictable operation. This also enables the long-term development of all schools and upper secondary schools. We must develop our entire education system as a whole. There have been individual reforms in different sectors in recent years, and now we have to look at the whole. It is therefore starting to prepare a report on education policy, which looks beyond the parliamentary term. I hope that this additional money will help the providers of education to bring and offer more extensive and more advanced and applied courses in upper secondary school. This strengthens the knowledge base of students, and it is certain that smaller and more efficient study groups will also be created. This will also make it possible to better take into account the different learners and also the different needs for support, and thus this whole process will promote educational equality and well-being. Today, too, we have talked about the mental health problems of young people. The services and student guidance of upper secondary school students should also be developed, and the opportunities for dual degrees should also be strengthened in order to give different learners a good and strong basis for building their world views and further studies. It is also important that we keep small upper secondary schools, which often work in connection with comprehensive school. The same teachers teach both. Further consideration will be given to turning a small upper secondary school into an additional accessibility supplement. Accessibility must be ensured throughout the country. Schools must not escape too far from homes. Also, the discretionary increase should not be abandoned. As we heard, 30 schools are currently receiving it. Upper secondary school education is provided, for example, at folk high schools where students also live. This is an opportunity for young people from regions where there is no high school. For some young people, school and home in the same package is exactly the right option. It's important that we take care of civilization. Upper secondary school is an important part of the Finnish school path, which we must now develop as a whole, that everyone discovers their own talent, a good buset on the path of lifelong learning.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u98	Mr President! On this very subject, we have congratulated this bill, which strengthens the unit price of high school schools. However, I particularly enjoyed listening to Mrs Hyrkö's speech, in which she has clearly been identified on the basis of her expertise, quite rightly, the challenges of funding for upper secondary school education that have already started several years ago, not even during the last, but in the previous, term of government. That is why, in our own protest, we argued that this funding for upper secondary school education should be reformed as a whole, and precisely so that this cycle of calculating costs could be cut off. I hope, of course, that, when we come to the second reading to present our proposal for a statement, we will also have the support of the government parties there. We all know that the funding of upper secondary school education is still too low compared to the costs incurred, and I am sure that everyone who has spoken beautifully about the importance of upper secondary education in this Chamber today understands the importance of it, because we share the common objective of having half the age group completing a higher education degree, and of course there is an important way to go to upper secondary school. It is also for this reason that we absolutely must ensure that the funding for upper secondary school education is adequate, and that any new reforms that may come are sufficiently well funded so that it does not at least increase the funding for upper secondary school education in terms of quality, for example, education.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u99	Mr President! We have been thanked for this and I agree that it is a good thing that this money came, but of course we must remember what we all said here in the report that, at the moment, the municipalities are funding high school. Three quarters of these costs come from municipalities and one quarter from the state. For example, when the total cost has been EUR 784 million in 2018, the share of municipalities is quite staggering. In that sense, I was not at all surprised when our experts were concerned about the future, that if this funding model is not changed in any way, when municipalities are in such a poor state of economic oxygen at the moment, then what does it mean for municipalities to be able to maintain, to organise upper secondary school education? However, upper secondary school education is a hugely important element for many reasons in the municipality. In many municipalities, just as our report states, secondary school and high school are in the same premises, and the infrastructure is shared and teachers are in common, and if anything happens to high school, it will also affect that basic education. I would then refer to this report by the Committee on Education and Rural Development on this increase in compulsory education, which is in the government programme: ‘The Committee on Education and Rural Development attaches great importance to the correction of the current clear financing gap in school education by removing reductions in unit costs before the additional funding needed for compulsory education reform is determined. Otherwise, there is a risk that, with the implementation of successive changes too quickly, the funding gap will not be corrected and may even actually increase, given the increasing qualitative requirements for action.” In other words, this is a serious concern which has now been raised by the committee, and we will certainly take this into account. Of course, I hope that when the government is considering this increase in compulsory education and considering these costs, this will also be taken into account there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u100	Mr President! We are currently discussing in Parliament the law on funding education and culture, and of course high school and high school education talk. The compulsory Swedish language in the matriculation exams also speaks and wonders. Of course, we have to ask and wonder whether we were thinking to the very end of making it compulsory. Although I consider language learning to be important, I think it is very important that there should also be alternatives. Perhaps you could have more English as an alternative, increase it, or perhaps you could have Russian as an alternative. In my own work, I needed much more Russian than English or Swedish, for example. We in different places may have different needs, and different occupations may have different needs. In the pharmacy work, I noticed that there was a real need for Russian as well. Similarly, there may be a variety of variations and needs in different professions. On the other hand, I wonder about this compulsory education. This compulsory education age will be 18 years in the future. Did they think about it until the end? Why, then, not put more support into those who really need it, but force everyone into it until 18 years of school? Is that a bit of a coerced taste? However, each of us is different, and there are different educational needs, and they must all be accepted and supported by all the students.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u101	Mr President! I therefore understand the need for the Assembly to be profiled and to raise these so-called objections, but I believe that these many things, almost all of them, are already included in the report. And now I do not believe that we are in favour of a great deal of disagreement or dispute about this. This report by the Committee on Culture is a very good one, and I believe that, as I see it, the essential points are also raised in relation to these comments by the Assembly. But most importantly, this is a good thing: an increase of EUR 18 million in upper secondary school education. There is certainly agreement on the fact that this is a good direction, but certainly not yet sufficient. In other words, the work must continue so that we also get the financial contribution from upper secondary school to the level that high-quality education and, above all, upper secondary school education will continue to be possible in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u102	Mr President! When we get social and health services on the wider shoulders — I hope and I am sure many here will — then education and its implementation and development will remain the primary task of the municipalities alongside the development of vitality. The municipalities are currently in a tight position, and it is important that when we make reforms, we also compensate for the future costs. There have been concerns about this inadequacy of funding. We had quite a major repair debt along the whole school path, and we have also had to make choices, of course, where the money is directed, where there is the greatest need, and that is certainly what this has to do with. But this is a good starting point. We're going the right way. Then, when you look at and prepare for compulsory education and its expansion, you remember these high school needs to take into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u103	Mr President! It has been very good to hear that the concern about upper secondary school education and its funding has been so widely shared, for in recent years it has, admittedly, seemed to be largely excluded, across party boundaries. In my opinion, this same common concern about secondary school education is very much reflected in this committee's report, in which these aspects of the debate have been well taken into account. Mr Reijose's speech must be so pointed out that there is no provision here for matriculation exams in another national language. That is why I think it is only important to say it out loud, because in the reforms relating to upper secondary school education and education in general, it is often a time for the debate and the young people themselves to be concerned about which reform affects whom and when it comes into force. I think it is important that we, as legislators, are very clear when things are actually moving forward. Upper secondary school is a unique phase of life, which hopefully will be increasingly marked in the future by such education, well-being, new learning and community.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u104	Mr President! There has been a good debate here and, indeed, these terms used in Parliament are certainly misleading, because the fact that there is an objection to it certainly does not mean what the representative is saying. Stone Island here asked if they wanted to build a fight about it. No, I'm sure not. It is precisely the coalition that wants to get the whole Chamber on the same front now that these criteria for upper secondary school funding may even be revised more ambitiously and faster than what has been considered in this government's work. This is particularly important from the point of view of achieving this accessibility criterion. This is what the Coalition Party is proposing here, because the current support for small upper secondary schools does not guarantee that upper secondary school education is ensured across Finland. On the contrary, it may even hinder appropriate structural reform in larger urban centres, which could then be more effective and invest in the quality of education. In this respect, it is certainly not a question of challenging any kind of argument, but rather of encouraging that Parliament is making rapid progress here and that upper secondary school education is being developed with a positive approach.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u105	Mr President! That's right. Of course, the difference here, and the reason why we wanted and also made a statement in committee, is that this means that the funding must be reformed. Now that I am reading the government programme, there is no such record here, but it is precisely here that what had been thought of in the field of upper secondary school education, apart from this extension of compulsory school life, is not an actual reform linked to the funding of upper secondary school education, but rather the cost of paying for textbooks and materials. There is really no point in this in any way in challenging a quarrel, but I would just like to remind you that in the last period of high school education was not forgotten in the sense that the entire law on secondary school was reformed. At the time, I think there was very unanimous support for the fact that university cranes, for example, the opportunity to study in higher education, were made compulsory for all upper secondary schools. At the same time, internationalisation was also increased, i.e. everyone has access to an international period. It does not always mean exchange abroad, it may also mean studying in English or another language, for example. In addition, student guidance in upper secondary schools was strengthened, which is all the more important at a time when higher education students' choices are more weighted directly to take place on the basis of their matriculation examination. Additional resources were then provided for these reforms. In that sense, it is absolutely impossible to say that high school education has been forgotten during the last period. As stated earlier in that report, and the committee's report is very clear, the unit cost of funding for upper secondary school education will continue to be cut in the coming years, which means that the costs will continue to be higher in the future than the funding they will receive. And this is what we would like to see a more rapid approach to. In other words, we hope that the financial system as a whole will be reformed in such a way that, at last, it will gradually move towards a better match between the costs incurred and the other direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u106	Mr President! I think there has been a very good debate here that we are all on the side of high school education. It gives general education and strengthens general education and prepares for university studies. And just as Mr Multala said, much has been done over the last period to reform upper secondary school education. Then, as I also think was very good in the committee and in that report, there is not a single party in this Chamber who has not been able to influence in any way the fact that there have been reductions in secondary school education. They have been made from there since 2014, and that is very regrettable. I do not think that there is any point in going into such a confrontation that if anyone objects, it would be a challenge to the dispute. I believe that this House is full of political parties and we only have different views on this issue. The point of view of the Coalition Party is that we should reform the financial system, because the truth is that, although it now comes to 18 million from the point of view of high school, it is only 7.5 million from the state, and then it is out of the municipality. After all, even today, when municipalities are in a difficult situation, this system of state participation, which is now here, and these associated deductions are a very strange calculation formula. When the central government share comes, it is usually between 20% and 40%, sometimes a little more, and especially if there are new tasks, it is 100%. However, in any case, this high school funding model has a very special formula, and that is why I think it is very important that we look at it with a little new eyes and see if we can reform this financial system. In view of the fact that compulsory education is being increased, this must be corrected there at the same time, if we really do. This increase in compulsory education is quite a fatal problem in upper secondary school education if funding is not corrected. It was also referred to by experts. But I think we're all on the side of high school. Right?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u107	President! It is good to continue with this speech by Mr Risiko. I believe that every representative who is currently sitting here in this Chamber is on the side of high-quality, high-quality upper secondary school education, not two words. I believe we have a strong consensus on this issue. In his excellent speech, Mr Autto called for and pointed out this criterion of accessibility, which I think is also a very important issue. I will read directly what the report of the Committee on Education says on the subject: ‘The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs considers it important that the criterion of accessibility is included in the financial system and it is desirable that this process of reform should Among other things, this sentence reflects the will of the Committee on Education and Rural Development and the strong need to see the regional, national and local challenges associated with the accessibility of upper secondary school education.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u108	Mr President! When discussing this extension of compulsory education age, it is important to remember that vocational education and upper secondary school education and the third path are parallel. Yes, we must look at the cooperation between them so that the young people will find their place smoothly there. In other words, this extension of compulsory school age is not a separate matter from upper secondary school either. And while we are developing it, it is important to develop student care and guidance so that every young person gets a booth so that everyone can find their own school and place.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u109	Mr President! Indeed, we fully agree with Mr Kivisaari on access to the funding criteria for upper secondary school education. Maybe what we're emphasising here is a little different. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs has produced an excellent report and, of course, the fact that this issue of the financial criteria is included in the report is important, but there is a strong signal in a very different way in the direction of the Government if Parliament accepts the statement attached to this report. That is why the Coalition Party has made this statement, and this is something that the Government must address if it is to be accompanied by a statement. In the sense that we have such a broad consensus, I hope, of course, that, at second reading, when it is possible to decide on a statement, there could indeed be consensus in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u110	Mr President! Thank you for this good debate. Indeed, it seems that we are very much in agreement. Perhaps, then, just the timetable for moving this financial reform forward, we have some different views, but it is understandable that this is the case. I recognize the situation, and so be it. It is a good thing to say that the difference is that the statement actually obliges the Government to carry out this financial reform and bring it to Parliament, whereas, if we, as a Committee on Education, state that it is important, we think it is very important, but it does not oblige anyone to do anything at all. Here's the difference. We feel that this is so important that we should require the Government to bring us the financial reform here, because the working group that is considering it has already considered and, in practice, said out loud that it is now time for political decisions and that the working group does not present a single model, but expects politicians, that is to say, the government, the government, to take a decision and possibly bring a proposal here to Parliament. That is, of course, what we hope to do with this statement that we have made at second reading, and we hope, of course, that we will have the broadest possible support for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u111	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 13/2019 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u112	Mr President! Report 13/2019 vp by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on the Government's proposal to transfer tasks related to terveystechnology from Valvira to Fimea, the Finnish Medicines Agency for Safety and Development. The proposal proposes to amend the Act on the Centre for Safety and Development in the Pharmaceutical Sector, the Law on the Licensing and Control Agency in the Social and Health Sector, the Law on Health Care Equipment and Equipment, the Law on the Restriction of the Use of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, the Law on the Medical Use of Human Organs, Tissues and Cells, the Biobank Act, the Law on Medical Research, the Blood Services Act and the Genetic Engineering Act. The aim is to reorganise some of the licensing, control and control tasks of health technology in the state administration. The transfer aims to focus expertise on health technology and the quality and safety of care products and thereby to achieve synergies. It also proposes to provide for the right of the Centre for the Safety and Development of the Pharmaceuticals to charge a fee for its inspection. In addition, the provisions on appeals are amended to meet the requirements of the Law on judicial proceedings in administrative matters, which will enter into force from the beginning of 2020. Health technology is a highly developing sector with health equipment and equipment at the heart of it. The growth sector in the global market is also important for Finland's exports and the economy. For example, new innovative combinations of healthcare devices and medicinal products, including cell and gene therapy products and tissue products, are being developed continuously in the sector. The tasks of Valvira Licensing Management are mainly related to the functioning of social and health care professionals and the service system. In addition, Valvira has, among other things, a Law on the medical use of human organs, tissues and cells in the Biobank Act and the Genetic Engineering Act. Fimea’s core tasks are related to the supervision of pharmaceutical operators and the evaluation of medicinal products and medicinal products. Fimea also has a key role to play in monitoring product safety. The supervision tasks of Valvira and Fimea overlap in part with those of the Tissue Act. Under the supervision and supervision of Biobanking in Valvira, Fimea and the National Institute for Health and Welfare have acted as expert authorities. The committee also considers it appropriate to prepare for the rapid development of health technologies by the authorities. The Committee notes that in implementing the changes, attention should be paid to the smoothness of the authorisation processes and cooperation between the authorities. For example, there are important aspects of the protection of the privacy and self-determination of persons who have submitted samples, which must continue to be addressed. The tasks under the Tissue Act and the Research Act, as well as those related to biobanks and genetic engineering, are justified in focusing on the same body as the control and control functions of health equipment and equipment. As stated in the Government's proposal, this is a limited area of expertise which is managed by a small, partially shared resource. The Health Technology Directives are being replaced by new EU regulations, some of which will continue for several years. The new regulations will also increase guidance and the need for advice and impose new requirements and tasks on regulatory oversight, which will require resource increases and the expansion and deepening of staff skills. According to the Government's proposal, 14 posts will be transferred from Valvira to Fimea and officials appointed to these posts. Fimea has its headquarters in Kuopio and its offices in Helsinki, Tampere and Turku. The personnel moving from Valvira work in Helsinki, as well as the majority of Fimea's personnel. According to the reasons for the proposal, it is intended that the transfer of posts to another location would not occur as a result of the change. The committee notes that Fimea operates in several localities and can offer mobile staff opportunities to change places of work if they so wish. On the basis of expert consultations, the committee has made some minor clarifications on the legislative proposals. The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u113	Mr President! We are dealing with an important issue relating to ter-veys technology, and it includes a wide range of issues, such as biobanks and tissue issues, as the chairman of the committee has just said on a number of occasions. The Government proposes that certain tasks be transferred from the Social and Health Care Authorisation and Control Agency to the Medical Safety and Development Centre. In practice, it means that tasks are transferred from Valvira to Fimea. It is significant that Fimea operates in many places and should always be taken into account. However, Fimea’s headquarters are Kuopio. I would hope that, in future, if new tasks and new posts are opened for Fimea, account will also be taken of the headquarters in Kuopio. Otherwise, Fimea also operates in Helsinki, Tampere and Turku.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u114	Mr President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has produced a well-founded report under the leadership of its chairman, Anu Vehviläinen, and the transfer of certain tasks from Valvira to Fimea is certainly justified on the basis of what is being done here by the representative. The Vehvilan first told us. However, this committee's report drew my attention to one argument which, in my opinion, was quite central to this issue, both in practice and perhaps in this way philosophically. The fact that Fimea specifically controls product safety is an aspect which justifies the transfer of the control of such health technologies to Fimea. I hope, of course, that the laws there at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will be prepared by officials and, on the other hand, we Members of Parliament here on Arkadianmäki will see health technology as a much wider opportunity to develop those specific health and well-being and health policies than simply being products that serve a particular purpose. It is precisely because we are developing operating methods while we adopt these new health technology products that we can reap the benefits that, for example, the reform of social welfare and health care – the administrative reform that has been going on in Finland for years – has put in place. I see that this extensive and rational use of health technology is precisely the key to achieving the operational improvements which, on the one hand, are constantly improving the quality of services but, at the same time, also achieving the cost-reducing effects that, for example, the social welfare reform has sought.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u115	Mr President! Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, representative The Vehviläinen has presented this matter with merit, which, of course, does not seem to be large in itself when a resource of 14 people is transferred from Valvira to Fimea, but, just as Mr Autto has just said, this is, of course, related to a large body of health technology, in which Fimea is more natural to monitor the introduction of new technologies and their entry into the market and its safety than Valvira, which is more concerned with the supervision of professionals and organisations. But what is this perhaps mysterious health technology? There may be over 100,000 health technology applications in Finland, and we have more than 100 member companies in such an organisation where health technology manufacturers have joined together. In Finland, health technology exports have increased and increased in recent years. That is more than EUR 2 billion at the moment. Imports amount to around EUR 1 billion, which means that we are clearly winning in exports compared to imports. Above all, of course, it is technology that facilitates the everyday care of an enormous number of disease groups. It is about diabetes, heart disease, orthopedia, where expensive technology is used. Of course, it must be safe, but the real purpose of it is precisely what Mr Autto here said: to help people and then, of course, to help people in this treatment process. When technology changes, operating practices also need to change. So I just wanted to emphasise in this speech that health technology, which now has a small part to do with this transfer of control between two different authorities, is really important both for our care system and for the national economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u116	Mr President! Very briefly, I would just like to thank Mrs Lindén. When we have experts like him in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we can count on the committee's report to be fully justified here, and I certainly do not disagree with it, but I particularly wanted to emphasise that this health technology will also support the work of health professionals to verify their work, to promote their ability and so on. This is, of course, the work that is being monitored there in Valvira, but here I am sure the authorities, Valvira and Fimea also work well together to make health technology a full benefit for Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u117	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. Budgetary initiatives will be sent to the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u118	Mr President! Among the initiatives here is the initiative taken by Mr Heinonen to provide the Finnish Immigration Service with additional resources of EUR 8 million in the context of this supplementary budget proposal. It is regrettable that the government, in its supplementary budget, did not allocate additional resources to the Finnish Immigration Service, except for the EUR 2 million proposed for these information systems. However, everyone is aware of the crisis in the Finnish Immigration Service. The Administrative Committee gave a unanimous opinion on the budget to the Committee on Finance, in which it was stated very frankly that the Finnish Immigration Service, with its current resources, is unable to comply with the legal deadlines. The Finnish Immigration Service has received several comments from the Ombudsman and other supervisory authorities on the non-compliance with statutory deadlines. But it is not the fault of the Finnish Immigration Service, which does, as must be done, careful work. The fault lies with the government and parliament, which do not provide Migri with sufficient resources. There is a queue of work-related immigration issues that businesses suffer from, student residence permits that these students and students are suffering from, and applications for humanitarian immigration, namely asylum applications, which suffer from the delay of which, on the one hand, taxpayers, who are forced to support these people in reception centres for too long, but, on the other hand, of course, these asylum seekers themselves, because for human reasons it would be important for them to be informed quickly whether they are in need of international protection, i.e. whether they are entitled to stay or whether they should return home. In addition to this, we have seen that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has completely knocked out this proposal for an extension of automatic decision-making within the Finnish Immigration Service, and we have seen that the Finnish Immigration Service is going to review 500 old cases again because of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, so I really do now appeal to the Committee on Finance to increase the resources of the Finnish Immigration Service, because it would be in the interests of everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u119	Mr President! It is easy to agree with what Mrs Zyskowicz said. We have tabled an initiative to add a total of EUR 10 million to Migri next year, precisely because we have a congested situation there, and this is a big part of the issue of work permits. Their queues are currently up to four months, when the time should be weeks if not even days. There has also been talk of a faster authorisation process for specialist experts, and on the other hand, I would be prepared to support it myself. In my opinion, our policy will have failed if one of the top experts who comes to Finland does not finally come here because it has taken four months to obtain that permit and this great one has been recruited, for example, in Sweden, Denmark, Germany, India or some other country, and we need to be faster in these. Last season, the Greens in particular made a loud noise about the introduction of anti-constitutional proposals to Parliament. A very strict language was also used here on the part of the Social Democrats and the Left Alliance to bring anti-constitutional proposals through Parliament. One can only wonder now that, when we have the Green Minister of the Interior, Mr Ohio, he brings to Parliament a proposal for automatic decision-making, which has now been declared unconstitutional at least at six points. I can't believe we don't do what we're talking about. Mr President! The assistants are the second to have been criticized by the Coalition Party. It was grown enormously, almost a hundred assistants were hired to the Rinte government, and now, by the latest, this Postice has shown that it is of no use, for example, that Minister Paatero has one secretary of state and three assistants. It seems that they are not able to control this situation either, and now it seems that the broken telephone is between these assistants, between the minister, between the owner's guidance, and that is why it is better to return and reduce the number of assistants. The Coalition Party has argued that a much smaller number of the assistant army could be achieved, and our initiatives concern the moderation of the number of assistants in all administrative sectors.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u120	Mr President! As regards next year's budget, Mr Heinonen has taken a number of very good and well-founded initiatives, and I really hope that they will succeed both in the careful consideration of the Committee on Finance and then in this Chamber, when we finally decide on next year's budget. But I would also like to mention the need for additional funding that Mrs Zyskowicz has mentioned for Mrs Migri. It is timely at the moment when tourism in Lapland is on the rise, that there is a need for experts, and these experts are also present in areas that are not necessarily traditionally thought of in this category. For example, you need people with language skills to serve these customers from around the world. We Finns are in a fortunate position to have the best education in the world and, in principle, we have acquired a broad language skills that we can handle as we go around the world, but there are many people in the world who do not do business in English, for example, but they hope to receive service in their native language, and there are many fewer experts in Finland in these languages, such as those in Asia, the Middle East or Eastern Africa, but it is very natural that companies also need people who speak these languages for customer service purposes. Let me give you a concrete example: Although Turkish Airlines is about to start direct scheduled flights between Istanbul and Rovaniemi next week, it will open up a completely new growth market in the Middle East, Eastern Africa, India and so on through this new connection, so that it will be quite quick to respond to the customer service needs of companies. And now that it is known that months ago, with regard to these recruitments, it is not, of course, a desirable situation. In this respect, Migri's activities must be supported both by means of financial resources and, I am sure, by developing processes more quickly. That is what I wanted to say, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u121	Mr President! There's an interesting situation. Mrs Autto and I are here alone in plenary and we are talking about an important issue. [PresidentMattiVanhanen: Third President]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-28-ps-72.u124	Mr President! Indeed, I would like to point out that, in the past, when Migri's resources had to be increased because of the situation of asylum, and when it was estimated that the number of asylum applications was decreasing, and the resources were reduced, and perhaps it was not seen that the need for labour from abroad in Finland is increasing so rapidly, I do not mean, of course, that people from abroad would come to the tasks that Finns could carry out — that is, a phenomenon that some people in this Chamber might say is that the foreign labour force is displaced from Finland — but vice versa. When we get these key experts, such as those who speak Hindi, or those who come from that East Africa to know their culture, professionals who come to customer service, then we get these new customer groups into our tourism. There are growing customer flows, which can then also make it possible for this very seasonal tourism to become more and more year-round. And this brings sustainable work and livelihood to companies and employees all over Finland, not just to Lapland. When this phenomenon of bringing about this year-roundness in the companies offering services across the country strengthens the ability to attract from these more traditional markets, such as Britain and the Central European countries, which have now been very strongly tied to Christmas and the middle of winter, for example in that Lapland, they can also be attracted even more to summer customers. This all confirms that, for example, our national airline Finnair is able to maintain its profitability, its filling rates on domestic routes also at a high level throughout the year, and this also brings hugely high-paid jobs, for example, here in the capital region, which means that it is not just a matter of Järvi-Suomen or Lapland, but that tourism is a success for the whole country.
