ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. The debate was closed yesterday, at the plenary session on 2 October 2019. In the debate, Mr Heinonen, supported by Heikki Automo, has proposed that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u2	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u3	Congressman Juuso.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u4	Mr President! Today, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health organised a press conference on the human resources dimension of enhanced service housing. The main problem with the proposal is that it contains a back door. First, it is said that the carer’s size is 0.7, but then the actual carer’s size is 0.5. However, residents of enhanced service housing are in such poor condition that 0.7 should be an absolute minimum, and some of them need more care. Last spring, the problems of elderly services received great social attention, and representatives of the present government parties promised a binding nurseship at once. On the basis of this proposal, it is obvious that this promise will not come true during this term of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u8	Your Honour, the minute is full. — — — — Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u9	Mr President! Congressman Juuso is on the same page as I am. This matter must be dealt with, and since 2011 I have dreamed of a day when Finnish political will would be built to support our elderly people in such a way as to get this nannyship into the law: more carers, 4400 carers, and other support measures out of working time, so that we can focus on care and care. Congressman Juuso, you know that 0.7 will come into effect immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u14	I would remind both ministers and honourable Members that the time limit for this debate is 1 minute. — — — — Congressman Juuso.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u15	Mr President! In enhanced service units, there are often many sick people who suffer from, for example, memory sickness, hypertension, diabetes, hypothyroidism or heart failure. Many of them are watching this broadcast right now. The units of enhanced service housing for nurses include monitoring of all these diseases, including blood pressure, blood sugar and weight monitoring, various measurements, monitoring and reporting of side effects of medication and many other therapeutic tasks. In practice, I have seen many times how nurses have to do anything but their actual job description, often just basic care tasks. The reason for this is that there are simply too few staff. In what way will the government ensure that nurses have sufficient time to carry out their actual medical duties and that there are sufficient skilled workers to monitor medical treatment?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u16	Mr Juuso rightly points out that both medical care and management are individual reasons for these neglects in the care of the elderly, as has recently been seen. Two other reasons are also obvious: Valvira has drawn attention to the fact that there are in fact too few nurses on duty. Fourthly, the main reason for non-compliance in this field has been precisely that it has focused not only on care and care but also on these indirect support tasks, and now this state of will, which the government formed in the negotiations on the Government Programme, is precisely because these support work is being carried out away from the work of the carers in order to allow time to be taken care of. In this respect, the size of 0.7 also guarantees that there will be 4400 more nurses in Finland in the future, and this is the day that has been expected in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u17	And now, for those of you who have already pressed the V button and stood up, a few more questions about this subject. — Representative Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u18	Mr President! The STM working group has suggested that care assistants and students can be included in the 0.7 nurse size. Seven-monthly training assistants, let alone students, will be cheaper, but, as we know, they cannot act like trained nurses — not in their skills, assurance and responsibility. What is more, we know that this offers the opportunity to go where the fence is lowest and cheapest. A new student should be replaced, and when he graduates, another student should be replaced. It is advisable to replace nurses with assistants whenever possible. What does this mean for workers? Another significant increase in pressure and urgency, less and less time to study things, more fixed-term employment, more temporary work, uncertainty, stretched workers, not enough pay. This then results in what the government and the coalition call a screaming labour shortage. This is the way to create problems in the labour market,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u19	Mr President! It is precisely about improving working conditions that we are talking about introducing this binding human resources measure into the law. It is a question of giving tired nurses, the profession, the message that there must be the necessary number of workers in these services. We also send a message from society that we care for the elderly in society — the fathers, mothers and grandparents of all of us. That's what this is all about. I would also like to say to the representative that, at the beginning of the last term of government, the Finnish people in particular were in that government, it was specifically decided that care assistants should also be included. On that basis, the current level of recommendation is precisely that those with a certain level of training in the field can also be involved in assisting tasks, but they must not be on duty alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u21	Mr President! The work in the care sector is often demanding and burdensome, and I do not think that the level of pay is at all the same as the challenge of work. For these reasons, among other reasons, many people who have completed medical training have ended up in other fields. So we've got qualified people, but they're somewhere else. Coping with demanding jobs requires a sufficient level of competence and experience, and not just anyone can cope with these jobs. For example, the situation in Turku is rather bad in both institutional and home care: one nurse may have to visit 15 or 20 people at home to take care of them, and if there is no parking space, the next customer has five minutes. This isn't human anymore. I ask the minister concerned: what does the government intend to do to ensure the availability of qualified, adequately qualified and suitable carers for the demanding and responsible tasks of the care sector?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u22	Mr President! The question of home care is justified because there have also been problems in home care and there have been omissions that we cannot overlook here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u23	Mr President! It is really great that the old-age service law is being reformed, and of course we want to wait for the whole, because now we know only a part of it. Well, that's how we'll see about it, and we can't really assess it. But the question is: 27.6. I asked you, Minister, that when the government programme states the staffing scale and you promised to be a nurse, which is the question of whether you can be trusted that it is a carer. You replied, Mr Kiuru, that it was precisely the intention to have a carer's appointment. You also said that you are now looking in the mirror: a nurse's medal. Now that we have heard these, who is counted in it, it is not a nurse’s measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u27	And still respect that minute limit.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u28	Mr President! I also think that it is important to reform the legislation on services for the elderly. If I remember correctly, Minister Saarikko put the work of this working group in motion last winter, and that working group will be working until the end of this year. Today, the work of this working group on human resources came to light. It is indeed only the work of the working group, and the government is now carefully assessing how to move forward. All in all, it is important that there will continue to be a sufficient number of workers in the future for the elderly as a whole, for both home and institutional care. That is our common concern, because we already know that there are thousands of people in need. Since the fact that we are increasing staff is not enough, but, as has already been said, working conditions are also very important, I would still like to ask: does the government have any ideas on how to improve these working conditions for older workers?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u29	Mr President! It is a big deal, and individual measures are not enough. In that regard, the determination of the carer, that is to say, this binding human resources, is, of course, one of the solutions to getting more people to work, to ensure that care and care is carried out specifically, which in this model is now to be carried out in accordance with the government's will. The chairman of the committee will draw the right attention to the matter. We also need to make sure that there is a common will here to put things in order for the elderly. These people who do this important work have such a strong ethos to be there to help and care for people that, in this case, many will also be exhausted in the face of the burden if that challenge is not always met. In this regard, the way in which we put these common matters in order also depends. Therefore, the overall reform of the Act on Elderly Services is important, as has already been said.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u31	Mr President! Minister Kiuru here explained which professional groups are involved in the nursing work. Students, care assistants and care assistants are also included.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u34	Mr President! Let us start by saying that we in this Chamber do not have the pay issues of the social partners. That's what we're holding onto here. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u35	It's gonna be a minute. You're going to have to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u36	Mr President! Last spring I was not here as a Member of Parliament, but, of course, I followed a debate that was even labelled as a decimal. This 0.7 and 0.5 has undeniably been difficult to understand, and I will open it. For example, in an elderly care unit with 28 seats, 0.5 means four nurses on the morning or day shift, three nurses on the evening shift and two on the night shift, because there are 168 hours per week and 38 hours per week and a fourth part of the shift. If we raise this to 0.7, the day shift will rise from four to six; the evening shift from three to five; and the night shift will be enough in the size of the two. I would now like to ask Minister Kiuru: have you ever, during your long career and political career, seen such a rapid improvement in the care of the elderly in three years' time?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u38	Mr President! Prime Minister Rinne, you are the Prime Minister because you delivered various promises. Among other things, you implied that more staff would be available for nursing work. After the election, you told me there was no money. Did it really come as a surprise to you that more nurses and more nurses are needed to raise the nurse’s size? The nursing sector is not very attractive at the moment. The burden of the work is partly due to the fact that professionals are not allowed to concentrate on their actual work but are also required to carry out various support tasks, which could also involve low-skilled staff. Does the government intend to alleviate this problem by allocating more money to provide services or by switching staff to cheaper ones?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u39	Mr President! I was wondering what you meant by ‘replaced for a cheaper staff’, however,this section’s presentation was based on the current recommendation. As for life, as ‘less expensive’— no reference Perhaps you are referring to the international need for work or to the fact that people from outside Finland might also come who are qualified for these tasks, and you probably also referred to the fact that, in addition to the amount of training, it may be possible for this workforce to come from abroad. In Finland, there is strict regulation that everyone who is qualified to work in these professions — people with training — is involved in this. On the other hand, it is worth noting that, according to both the current and the new proposal from this section, students can only be included in the scale when they are in a contractual relationship with the operating unit.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u40	Mr President! The previous government set up a working group on the reform of the Act on Elderly Services, which was intended to look at the entire chain of elderly services, starting from home care to 24-hour care. Now that we have received this presentation, this is quite a torso, or indeed a torso. This is where responsibility will be transferred to the next government. Nothing is going to happen this season, but it had to be given now, even though the Working Party on Elderly Services will complete its work at the end of this year. What was the rush to get this performance now at this point? Do we want to forget all about the old people in home care? And again, here is this “mechanism of staff ” at this time. There was talk of a nurse’s measurement — it has now become a human resource measure, which means that caring for the comfort of the customer’s living environment also falls within the scope of this personnel measurement, and there are completely untrained staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u41	Mr President! Now we have to decide. Was this bill in a hurry or not? Before the summer, I realised that there was pressure, especially in the opposition, that this had to be brought
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u42	Mr President! Binding carer size 0.7 is a truly important goal, and it is also an urgent objective. Well, now in this draft, which has been mentioned, it would come into force in 2020, but we do not have the money in next year's budget for it. How do you intend to manage this funding in this law, when your wish was that, if possible, it would come into force in practice? This will give the impression that at the same time the government is trying both to redeem and to bypass its electoral promises when it is postponed to the forthcoming parliamentary term and, in practice, to be financed by the future government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u43	Mr President! Firstly, it is said to Mr Räsänen that there is no concern yet. This was only a proposal from the working group. However, I personally respect the proposal made by that working party. It sat for hours thinking about how the nurse’s appointment, that is, this binding staffing, would come into the law. The consensus that has now been created between the various professionals gives the basis for a debate in Parliament on the basis of the facts of this important project. I have also said that we have the decisions of the Budget Committee on the outcome of this important task force when it comes to it, and today we have a result that can be put to the consultation. Let us see how it carries on during this six-week period when there is a major social debate. The government has prepared for this bill to be submitted by the end of the autumn season, and in practice there has also been a record in the budget debate that these resources will be secured. That's why I didn't quite understand what you meant by bypassing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u44	Mr President! Everyone in this country must be able to trust that good care is available to themselves and to loved ones when their own powers are no longer sufficient. Thank you, Minister Kiuru, for taking this issue quickly. Of course, it is also essential to ensure that there will be no further irregularities and omissions that we all certainly had under the skin at the beginning of the year. One of the key challenges facing elderly care is that recruitment and also that well-being at work in the sector. This also applies to home care, as more and more older people also live at home longer and receive care there. One of the essential guarantees of quality in home care is also the fact that the nurse who visits there is as often familiar as possible, which of course also requires that there is enough of those professionals and that they genuinely have the opportunity to do their job well. Now I would like to ask: how does the government intend to support municipalities and the care sector more broadly in this strengthening of well-being at work, strengthening work guidance and also in recruiting, while this transition period will be here within a few years?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u45	Mr President! We have to get back to this question. You are right that not everything is going to work out just by putting a binding staffing measure in the law,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u48	Now there is one further question on this subject and it is put by Mr Juuso, the author of the original question.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u49	Mr President! Unfortunately, we have had to find out that self-monitoring is not working. I'm sure we'll remember all the headlines on the afternoon paper at the turn of last year. Many people in enhanced service housing are in such a bad condition that they are unable to claim their rights themselves, not to mention being able to report malpractices. If these shortcomings are to be remedied, external controls are needed. In what way will the government ensure that regional government agencies receive enough money to improve control? Can Secretary Kiuru promise we won't see any ghost nurses again?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u50	Mr President! The very important aspect of this debate, Mr Juuso, is also this monitoring. Yes, visits to Valvira and Avavi have shown that things are not yet in order in Finland, and the good news is that these resources have now been increased as a result of this crisis in services for the elderly. That alone will not help, because you also paid attention to this self-monitoring. It must be said that, on the part of the service providers, this self-monitoring has in some places become a somewhat secondary issue, and in this respect, more detailed self-monitoring records and actions are certainly, as were the case with the last social restructuring, key issues and they will be more and more important in the future. One question is also whether the organisers should also be able to cooperate here, even in this current organiser field. In that respect, I hope that we will also find new innovative solutions to this issue in the current community field, which, however, has to do with these tasks.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u51	Next question, Congressman Vikman.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u52	Mr President! The Finnish EU Presidency is an excellent opportunity to promote themes that are important to Finland. However, the Prime Minister's statements have attracted the attention of the international media in an entirely different way. First of all, during a visit to France, Brexit comments on the slope spread across Europe — the next day the European Commission had to correct the statement of the Finnish Prime Minister. Secondly, last Sunday, during the Prime Minister's interview, Rinne reported that all EU countries are ready to accept the link between the rule of law and EU funding. It soon became apparent that this statement was not true either. The Prime Minister is in charge of Finland's EU policy, but recently European leaders have taken the Prime Minister away from the rope like rams. Our Prime Minister's statements have caused a great deal of confusion, which is detrimental to Finland's credibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u53	Mr President! As far as Brexit is concerned, it now seems to be true that, after a debate with the French President, a situation was quickly created in which Britain has become a written proposal on how they would resolve this issue of Brexit. It came a few days later than was hoped with the French President. The reason why that request was made was that there is a need for a legal assessment of what the British proposal in practice is going to mean. Legal assessment takes time, and we cannot take the 27 Member States and their citizens, 500 million people, to a situation where we do not know what will happen if the Brexis are achieved without an agreement or with an agreement that is the model of this whole package that Britain has produced at the last minute. I would like to say that, in the debate on the European Union, as the leader of the Finnish Prime Minister, the Presidency will ensure that the debate takes place.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u54	The Left Alliance had also expressed its willingness to ask about this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u55	Congressman Saramo.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u56	Mr President! There has been a truly worrying development in the EU in terms of the rule of law, democracy and human rights. In particular, the right-wing governments of Hungary and Poland have taken over the media and the judiciary. In Hungary, the media are fully equipped with government propaganda. There is still free media in Poland, but the radio has been hijacked as a government horn. In order to remain in power, right-wing governments have moved attention away from their own actions by fomenting hatred against asylum seekers. At present, the Polish election campaign has raised the greatest threat to the Polish people as a result of sexual minorities. By slowing down the criticism and kidnapping of the judiciary, corruption is also possible. Finland's money to the EU too is too often transferred to the private pockets of the leaders. I think it is wonderful that our ministers have now raised the issue of the rule of law, and thank you for that. But since these EU sanctions require unanimity, Poland and Hungary will be able to prevent them by supporting one another.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u57	Mr President! The rule of law is one of the key cornerstones of ensuring that peace in Europe has been maintained during the operation of these institutions. The fact that stability and the well-being of people have evolved is very much due to the fact that we have these values-based cornerstones in Europe: independent courts, freedom of expression, democracy, opposition rights. They are all principles that are strengthened from the point of view of the rule of law. They are elements built for the protection of ordinary citizens. At the moment, there are three levels which have gone a little mixed up in this debate, a debate on how to strengthen the rule of law: The first level is the Commission's proposal on how this rule of law dialogue is conducted on an ongoing basis, in a way that highlights both successes and problems in this area of the rule of law within the European Union. The second is the Article 7 procedure in which Poland has been and in which Poland is currently: [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u58	Also Minister Tuppurainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u59	Mr President! Thank you for your question. When we talk about the EU's rule of law, we talk about the fundamental values of the EU, the values enshrined in the EU Treaty. So we are not arguing about any political opinion or moral ideals, but about the legal basis on which the whole Union is built. It is therefore fully justified that Finland has taken upholding the rule of law, upholding common values as one of the top priorities of its Presidency,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u62	Now I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u63	Mr President! The long-term objective of the Coalition Party has been to link respect for the rule of law to EU funding. We welcome the fact that the rule of law is one of the main objectives of the Finnish EU Presidency. Now this government-Rinte model is a watered-down compromise. It concerns the misuse of EU aid and corruption. It does not even concern the rule of law, such as the independence of the judiciary. This is a defeat for the EU and a disappointment for Finland. You may even ask whether the early statement of the Prime Minister, to which I referred in the previous question, contributed to our progress during the Finnish Presidency. It is good that the abuse of subsidies is now being tackled — then it would be natural to attack the real issue, namely the violation of the rule of law. Prime Minister Rinne, will the Finnish Government continue to promote the link between respect for the rule of law and EU funding,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u64	Mr President! With regard to Article 7, this rule of law dialogue, which is being taken forward, and then with regard to the third condition relating to the multiannual financial framework and the budget: In practice, this latter means that the exact proposal that the Commission has come forward with regard to this conditionality in relation to the budget is being taken forward, and for the first time it seems bright in the sense that it is being implemented. There Hungary, Poland and others who have been working against this issue are prepared to accept this issue and to take it forward. This link to the rule of law means that if there is any doubt that, for example, the judicial system or the prosecution system does not operate in that country according to the rule of law, then the cash taps can immediately be frozen and then there will be normal possibilities for appeal to the Court of Justice of the European Union, which will make it transparent that the rule of law in this country is not being respected, on the basis of an assessment by the Commission or the Council. In practice, it will lead to this rule of law connection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u65	There's more than one minister raising his hand. — Let us give Mr Henriksson, who has just missed him.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u66	Mr President! Thank you for this important question. After all, Finland has received a great deal of praise for putting the rule of law at the heart of our Presidency. This has become a lot, a lot of praise, and I would also like to pass it on to Parliament. We have a meeting of Justice Ministers on Monday. Among other things, the fight against corruption will be discussed there, and when we had an informal meeting of ministers of justice and internal affairs here in Helsinki in July, we discussed the importance of the rule of law for the first time in any meeting of EU Justice Ministers. Each country thought that this issue we should continue to discuss, and I think it's great that this kind of feedback has come. Then, as far as the independence and efficiency of the judiciary are concerned, we also have a different set of instruments: we have the so-called EU justice scoreboard, which can also be compared.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u67	Let's move on with the questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u68	Mr President! This defence of the rule of law is, after all, strongly linked to our programme of presidents, and it is very important that it is now being taken forward. I have to say that although I have been following this matter for quite a long time, I have not yet fully come to the conclusion of what has been achieved here. So I ask again: is it true that, when this Article 7 procedure has not been effective in relation to Poland and probably not effective in relation to Hungary, will it be possible, by using these financial frameworks, to guarantee that the judiciary, for example in Hungary and Poland, operates independently, there will be conditions for the opposition to operate there, there will be free conditions for the press to act — that we will achieve the objectives that we want to achieve here? Is that what this is about? That's what I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u69	Mr President! Mr Satonen, Finland will pursue these objectives by means of these three different entities, which, on the basis of the Commission's proposals, will be the subject of debate in the EU. This proposal on the rule of law dialogue will in general mean that the European Union is constantly discussing how the rule of law is being implemented in the Member States. If there is good development, it becomes transparent. If there is bad development, it will be made transparent. This will put pressure on you to move these things forward. Then there is the procedure under Article 7, which unfortunately has not affected Poland's action, even though it has been held twice around this issue. Now Hungary is facing a second consultation around this issue. I hope that Hungary will take note. Poland, too, took some things into account. This third point, namely this conditionality in relation to this budget, will mean:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u70	Mr President! The negotiations on the financial framework have now taken place under my leadership, and all the time we have been working on the link between EU funds and respect for the rule of law, just as the EU Commission put forward in its original proposal in 2018. It has, of course, been carried forward by the working groups all the time, but the aim is to ensure that the Union's budget is protected from large-scale shortcomings in the rule of law. This is a new tool and will significantly increase the number of EU instruments in the rule of law toolbox. And that's the added value. It tackles abuses that go beyond the individual qualms, i.e. the functioning of the rule of law, and it is through this that we can tighten the screws, freeze funds in countries where the rule of law does not apply. In addition, we have other instruments, as the Prime Minister described. We're moving forward. We're working in several areas. We are doing our best to recognise that six months will eventually be a short time to bring about final changes in societies such as Poland and Hungary. But we do our part.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u71	Mr President! Indeed, six months is a short time, and now this presidency of ours has been virtually wasted by the government. When Finland should talk about industrial competitiveness, fairway projects, agriculture and defend the sovereignty of small countries, what is the government doing? Trying to infect the whole of Europe with climate panic and fuss and attack other countries in the name of this political rule of law. This game is over. Other countries indicated that the rule of law is not a policy but a safeguard of the use of funds and a fight against corruption. This is good and right. So I ask the government: will you, being wise in this humiliation, use Finland’s limited speaking power in the future to defend matters that are important to us? Are you going to get us allies in Europe or enemies?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u72	Mr President! I don't recognize the representative. From Mr Mäkelä's speech to what I have seen myself in the discussions with the European Heads of State and Government, anything that is true. In fact, in practice, Finland has been very much commended for the contribution that Finland has made so far during its Presidency to implementing the Commission's new strategy and implementing the new EU strategy. This included just what you described: strengthening the new industrial structure, taking education forward, creating permanent, good jobs in Europe in a sustainable, ecological, economic and social way. This is an extremely important objective of the Finnish Presidency, which is being strongly taken forward and, in fact, much, much to be commended so that you can be at peace.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u73	Mr President! Finland is now holding the EU Presidency for the third time. The first two went very well, in a word, this third one has actually moved quite a bit. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u74	Mr President! Mrs Wallinheimo, Finland has acted calmly, diplomatically and in a forward-looking way, discussing things, just as you described it as necessary to do. If you are currently thinking about the partners with whom European Union affairs have been taken forward, then one of the key partners is the net contributors, with whom we want to take the rule of law, the climate change package and also the whole immigration package from the point of view of all Europeans in the right direction and in the right direction. As I said, in fact, there has been a great deal of gratitude for the work that has been done. Finland at the General Affairs Council under the leadership of Minister Tuppurainen and, by the way, both the sectoral councils and the European Council have done so. You can rest assured that even this Finnish Presidency will be very successful after the first and second periods as you describe it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u75	Mr President! Politics is part of this Chamber, and so let this speech by Mrs Wallinheim also be allowed. In my opinion, it did sound a bit disappointing that it itself is not now managing this European policy, in line with this government programme, in which we are actively and openly at the forefront of the EU, as Prime Minister Rinne has said. That is how we will act: we will strengthen the unity of the EU, we will strengthen the EU's ability to act, because we need a Union capable of resolving global crises such as the climate crisis, inequality, growing conflicts between the major powers. This is where Prime Minister Rinte's government programme has been built, and that is where our presidency of the European Union is leaning, and good feedback has come from other Member States. Yes, we are seen as a pragmatic and peaceful, solution-oriented Member State, which is entrusted, among other things, with issues as serious and difficult as the negotiation of the multiannual financial framework. In this respect, we are taking the work forward, but this EU policy is not a solo performance, but we also need the goodwill of other countries. There is a lot of tension at the moment, but luckily we Finns are there to bring you
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u76	Mr Vikman has also raised this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u77	Mr President! If, as the Prime Minister has said here, Finland acts as President of the EU with caution and restraint, then how is it possible that the European Commission will have to correct the statements made by the Prime Minister of Finland? At the same time, the opinions of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection draw attention to more than just EU debates: Today we read, among other things, the guidelines for energy policy in Suomen Kuvalehti, about which one wonders whether the government is aware of these — that is, the rest of the government besides Rinte. In fact, Rinne said: ‘Taxation is part of the energy tax reform. Peat support will be removed from there.” At the mouth of its chairman, the Centre Party has already made it clear that the matter of peat will be examined next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u78	All right, the Prime Minister himself has his hand up. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u79	Mr President! This is an interesting debate when we combine a number of things that also create a terrible mess by the petitioner of the Coalition Party. If I want to answer this first question on these alleged explanations on the part of the Commission, they are not explanations, but the Commission spokesman said that no time limits have been changed by the Commission, and that is true. No one has ever claimed that some time limits have been changed, but it was said with President Macron that it was important to have Britain's proposals by the end of September so that they can be subject to a legal assessment. Under no circumstances was anyone’s intention to change any time limits, but to pressure Britain to make proposals in order to protect ordinary European, ordinary Finns from the economic threat that is coming from the hard Brexit.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u80	Next question, Mr Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u81	Mr President! In connection with the interim issue, I explained to Minister Haraka that wage support would not be the answer to unemployment, but should also encourage Finnish job seekers, for example, with money for moving. If we do not give the unemployed Finns carrots to move after work, for example, in the form of a transfer money, it will be difficult for us to get them employed. Then, as in the Olympic Stadium renovation, it may be that foreigners are paid underpaid. If we are unable to control the renovations made under our eyes with government money in this neighbor, how else in Finland? So it is not worth encouraging the informal economy, but encouraging Finns to move after work. Now that you are unable to remove the grey economy, are you going to do something to make the Finns move?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u82	Mr President! I am very pleased that Mr Harkimo took this issue into the debate because I answered your question in the interim debate, but you had already left the Chamber and, apparently, to date have not heard my answer. In other words, the Government Programme defines that the allowance for moving is increased so that half of the allowance paid by the employer to a person who moves in after work for a new job will in future be exempt from tax. This is also our line in next year's budget. The mobility of labour to solve this problem of matching is extremely important. Furthermore, of course, the fact that we have a large number of job seekers and a large number of job vacancies means that we need to invest in training, conversion, fast and accurate training, and that is also what the government has set aside in the next budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u83	Congressman Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u84	Mr President! The birth rate has been falling for eight years in a row, and this year does not seem to bring about a change in the negative trend. On Monday, Statistics Finland published its latest population forecast, according to which the birth rate of Finns will fall even a year ago much faster than predicted. Recent statements against children clearly show that we are really a long way from a child-friendly society. Although this is a complex issue and political action is only part of the choice of means, we really need to tackle it. This house must send out a clear message that every child born is an extremely valuable and welcome member of society. I would ask the minister concerned: is the government going to promote a child-friendly family policy, and if so, what are these means?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u85	Ministers Andersson and Kiuru are both ready. Andersson in the alphabet first.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u86	Mr President! The government is already in its first budget to take a number of child-friendly and child-friendly decisions. With regard to education and education, I can say that next year's budget will include 350 million in investment in education at all levels of education, including very important investments in early childhood education, which restores the equal right of all children to full-time early childhood education and reduces the number of groups in early childhood education for those over the age of three. A very important decision from the point of view of the quality of early childhood education, children and also early childhood education professionals. In addition, cooperation in the social and cultural fields will continue. And next year, among other things, a project will be launched to strengthen cooperation between early childhood education and clinics.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u87	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Tanus for your question. It's the right thing to do in this time. It has to be said that families do face challenges. There are many families who have recognized the financial deprivation. There are 150,000 poor children living in Finland, and unfortunately the poverty of families with children is still on such a level that we cannot accept in any way that we have to say that many children do not have the kind of beginning that should be guaranteed in society at all. That is why a number of measures have now been taken specifically to reduce the poverty of families with children. But this raising of birth rates and encouraging families to move towards the desired number of children is very important, and society also has a big role to play in creating a positive mood in that young people want to start a family and not regard it as a risk, but as a cause for joy and happiness, just as children in this society are. Yes, every child is dear to this society and wanted.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u88	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Audit Committee on TrVM 1/2019 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u89	Mr President! Indeed, there is a report by Parliament's auditors on the financial statements of the Finnish Institute for Foreign Policy, the annual report and the accounts and the administration for 2018. The Audit Committee has consulted, among other things, the chairman of the auditors and the director of the Institute, and the auditors' reports are so-called clean again, i.e. there are no comments from the auditors. The Audit Committee notes that the audit has been carried out in accordance with good auditing practice and, in its report, the committee has drawn attention to the appropriations allocated and their use and to the costs of the operation and their changes. No specific questions have been raised regarding the Institute for Foreign Policy and, in its proposal for a decision, the committee has proposed that Parliament should have no objections to the reports.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u90	Mr President! There is no greater comment to be made on this audit report as such, because it gives us what is known as clean papers. Everything's been delivered the way it's supposed to be. The auditors have no comments on the activities of the Institute for Foreign Policy. Expenditure of around EUR 3.9 million last year, of which EUR 2.5 million for staff costs — that is, staff will naturally take up most of the budgeted money, because the Institute for Foreign Policy is carrying out research. I was elected Chairman of the Advisory Board of the Finnish Institute for Foreign Policy a few weeks ago, and this role, which The Institute for Foreign Policy in our society has, in my opinion, an important one. We need such an independent research institute that responds to us and brings perspectives to international relations, to EU policy, and brings us politicians important information, information, to political debate and also to the media, bringing a wide-ranging perspective on trade, security and mobility-related foreign policy issues. Overall, the Institute for Foreign Policy has a good and important role to play. The activity will also continue to be stable. The Finnish Institute for Foreign Affairs has now been able to elect a new director, and he will start from the beginning of next year. There will certainly be enough challenges in the future, and there will be enough research. The research programme has now been closed down until 2022, after which the new programming period will begin and the new priorities will begin, to which research will be directed. Of course, the audit report also targets and seizes funding. Although last year's funding amounted to around EUR 3.9 million, now both the budgeted share of the state will increase slightly and the share of external funding will also increase slightly — and this is of course an important point that our research institute will also be able to obtain external funding for its research. All in all, it is good that: The Institute for Foreign Policy will be able to provide us with independent information in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u91	Mr President! The audit committee had no problems and the audit report is clean. Nothing reprehensible about that; on the contrary, things have been done well. What I drew attention to in this report is that, once these Institute priorities have been addressed here, there will be the EU's external relations, Russia's foreign policy and internal situation and development, then the United States and China's foreign policy, then Europe's security issues, climate, energy policy and Arctic policy. These are all important issues, and given the fact that there are about 40 people working at the Institute, of which there are about 20 researchers, of course, the whole world cannot be studied. But when Savola, the chairman of the negotiating board, pointed out that in the future, these priorities can be monitored, as I understood them, I would like to highlight the role of Africa here. Africa has now been given less attention. Perhaps from a tiny sidetrack it may come from there, if, for example, China's external relations and channels of influence are considered, but Africa is not a direct subject of research. From a European point of view and from Finland’s point of view, Africa is an area that is worth exploring for a number of reasons: firstly, climate change, as the second huge population growth in Africa, migration and, of course, as a positive feature, Africa also offers emerging economies and economic opportunities for both Finland and Europe, i.e. Africa’s relationship with Finland also requires researched information.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u92	Mr President! In this context, it is good to say a few words about the work of the Institute for Foreign Policy. In recent years, international politics has been dominated by the crises of great power relations and concerns about the decline of the multilateral rule-based international order. There have also been a lot of political changes in Europe, and all these have also been reflected in Finland, increasing uncertainty. In such a situation, high-quality research and foresight information will become more important. The mission of the Finnish Institute for Foreign Policy is therefore to produce this high-quality scientific research and expertise, both in support of Finnish internal debate and decision-making, and also in support of international arenas. When I read this report and the accounts of the Finnish Institute for Foreign Policy, I was convinced of the quality and importance of the work, and it was a pleasure to read that publications, for example, are widely used at national and international level and that various awards and recognitions have also been received. The number of different seminars is also commendable, and the Institute seems to have a good reputation for organising high-quality seminars. It seems that the Institute employs international, trained and enthusiastic staff. As vice-chairman of the Audit Committee, I can also express my thanks for the fact that the Institute has established operating procedures, guidelines and regulations in line with good governance and that internal control and risk management, for example, fulfil the conditions laid down for them. All in all, the Institute for Foreign Policy deserves a great deal of credit.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u93	Mr President! This audit report may not be any more than that, because it really does give a clean statement of action, but in itself it does. A few words on the work of the Institute for Foreign Policy. I am now in the negotiating committee, and I have to say that here before us colleagues have raised praises, which I myself share and say that research, various seminars, reports, monthly publications and the like are indeed of a high standard, and perhaps the best of all, these many events are gathering ordinary citizens. This is not an elitist activity, as it were, a foreign policy debate in spheres, which perhaps in the back years we in Finland seemed to have only a few delicacy, but they have actually been able to raise matters to the public with these topical and relevant themes and these reports. In that sense, it can be said that this work has been cost-effective and of high quality. I know that in those recruitments there are also such rising abilities, if you can say so, students who have done good doctoral studies and others were able to be raised there as researchers, and this has certainly also given encouragement to many researchers since then. The way the Finnish Institute for Foreign Policy then became part of the parliamentary institution was based on a solemn decision taken during the 2006 parliamentary year. I remember those conversations: It was then imagined that this is now something like this EU propaganda machine, which will now be brought here under Parliament's authority and then we will start to steer the debate. Indeed, it was quite a ferocious spin of what was then taking place around this solemn decision, and it was quite strange thoughts about what this Institute of Foreign Policy would do. But it may be said that these years have shown that this place, this particular investment in the parliamentary system, has been the right one and it has given these issues the perspective and depth that the Parliament has also been able to use in many ways. You can say that these past few years Teija The Institute’s leadership has been excellently forward pilots, and he is very grateful for what he has done over these years. Now the new management will start and will certainly continue to take the Institute forward and in a good direction. Indeed, the Finnish Parliamentary Institute deserves and needs this type of research institute, and in this way we will be able to benefit the entire nation with these various research data and also these current reports.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u94	Mr President! It is interesting to hear that this was sometimes suspected that this institution could become some kind of EU propaganda machine, because from my point of view it appears exactly that way today. I am not at all convinced by the current work of the Institute for Foreign Policy. Instead of providing objective information to support decision-making, it appears more to be an independent political actor who wants to steer the debate in a certain direction. This, of course, relates in particular to the person of the outgoing leader. He has had a very strong political profile, but many other researchers, with their exits, have also made themselves more political debaters than neutral researchers. Then this effectiveness: If we have 20 researchers hired, but it is difficult to name anything concrete that this body has achieved, what will be achieved in return for these tax money? The issue of staffing problems has already been raised in the public domain. All of this does not inspire any confidence. I therefore expect the negotiating board to address these problems in the future and give us a response to the budget. Unfortunately, I have to say that these speeches by the members of the negotiating board do not give us confidence either that these problems will be addressed or even taken seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u95	Mr President! Of course, the role of the Advisory Board is to be a messenger from this Parliament towards the Institute for Foreign Policy, both to researchers and to the Government, and if there are any of these concerns, then of course we will pass them on. The Finns also have their own representative in this council, Mr Antikainen, who is an excellent representative of your ranks, so you can also directly bring that message to the negotiating board's table in your party. However, Mr President, Mr Kiuru raised the question of research programmes during this period, which has already begun before the beginning of this negotiating board. Three areas have been addressed: the European Union's research programme, the EU's eastern neighbourhood, Russia and the third global security policy, where transatlantic relations are naturally part of it. Relations with the United States play a key role. All three are very topical, important and what the debate in Europe and in Question Time, for example, highlighted. We are experiencing quite a stir in Europe, both in relation to Brexit and in relation to internal negotiations on the development, financing and so on of the rule of law, and so on, so there should be an effort to do so. Of course, as a natural part of our neighbour Russia, where things are happening constantly, and as regards the past years, what has happened with Ukraine, we also need to know how Russia will develop as our neighbour and, of course, how we will be able to use that research data to improve our relations with the United States — not to mention global cooperation towards the United States. However, the United States is that power in the world, both commercially and militarily, and their thinking is also good for us to know and analyse. But then to this African policy. It is quite right that the research areas that we want to take forward should also be raised in this debate. There is an ongoing period of research in preparation, and Africa is certainly one of the key issues affecting Europe as a whole, but also affecting Finland. The enormous pressure on the number of migrants coming from there to Europe, the uncertainty of the future for millions of people and how it can support Africa's own development there in such a way that there is no need to leave the country — in that respect, we certainly need the information that has been studied for us. I do take these greetings seriously, at least for my part, that this could be one area of research, perhaps in addition to these, but at least one part of this whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u96	Mr President! Mr Savola, who is known as a particularly strong security policy expert, made a good speech in this regard, and there are certainly strong reasons why the members of the negotiating board have also raised this issue of Africa, which seems to be of particular interest to the Finnish Government at the moment. Now that the members of the negotiating board have opened up these lines of research at the Institute for Foreign Policy, I would like to remind you of Finland's position in the middle of the Arctic region of Europe in this debate. However, this study of Arctic issues is certainly a particularly relevant issue in our environment. I do not want to belittle the fact that Africa, for example, is not an important subject for research, and Finland, together with its European partners, must of course have an influence on the very basis that Mr Savola also raised so that Africa's development can also be taken in the right direction from a European perspective. But for Finland to be strong, for Europe to be strong, I think that we should be able to understand the phenomena that are happening here in our own region, to seize the opportunities that the Arctic region of Europe also opens up from the Finnish perspective, and in this sense, when there are indeed members of the negotiating board listening to this debate and certainly there is also a follow-up to this debate at the Foreign Policy Institute, I would like to speak about the importance of the fact that the importance of these northern regions and Arctic regions is also being seen perhaps a little more forceful than what is now in this report — of course this is the report of the Committee on Audit — and it has also been made in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u97	Mr President! I'd like to invite a representative. Mäkelä to participate in these various seminars, which the Finnish Institute for Foreign Policy organises, because I personally have found that they are multi-sound, that is to say that there may indeed be very opposing views around the subject, and that is precisely what is meant to gather different views on the subject and to get the debate carried out, and in that sense I did not quite understand when you said that in some way these research results should be aimed at a particular goal: that would be precisely the kind of wrong influence if one were to think that there was an end to which the research results would then go to be twisted so that they would be applied to that goal. It is precisely the intention that scientific research is multi-sounding and that there are different views around things. Of course, each of these scientists will use his voice in that scientific community and will be free to do it, not be constrained in that way, and one can agree with them or disagree with them. Personally, I have experienced that the Institute for Foreign Policy has had a very balanced approach to different issues and has had the courage to take... Consider, for example, these issues of Russia or the crisis in Crimea and everything during that time — immediately there were also these topics of seminar and briefing papers and similar ones, which were then discussed and then distributed. So that in that sense I myself am like this, could you say, as a member state development critically experienced, that the Finnish Institute for Foreign Policy has specifically sought to approach the subject in a rather diverse way — such as the development of the EU — and to bring exactly those different perspectives to which direction we are going, which direction we should perhaps be going and which direction should not be. And in that sense, I did not recognize the behaviour of the Institute for Foreign Policy, if you could say, from this speech by Mr Mäkelä, that it would be of this kind. But, indeed, all these opportunities are open to everyone, so all we have to do is follow them and then take a stand on the basis of getting to know things. And, indeed, the Finns of Peru are sitting there in the council just as all the other parties are represented.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u98	Mr President! Mr Mäkelä raised this issue of effectiveness, and of course it is always appropriate to consider it when money is put into various projects or organisations. Of course, when you talk about research, measuring effectiveness is challenging. The measuring tape can measure how many centimeters, the palstmillimeter, have become text. It is the quantitative, but the qualitative aspect is more difficult. These quantitative targets are reported in this Financial Statements of the Finnish Institute for Foreign Policy and also in the Annual Report: The number of publications is reported. The Finnish media visibility of the Institute’s researchers is reported on how many of them have been quoted in different media, how they have been used as experts in the state administration and in various seminars. Reference has been made to the discussions on Gold Beach, and then there is the number of these scientific books. One can always wonder from the point of view that if these were not there, what body or information would replace this information that is now available. Measuring is very difficult. Especially when you go to basic research, the challenge of measuring is always there. I myself have used the expertise of researchers to help me with my parliamentary work, and help has come very quickly when you have only understood to ask and have known that such an institution exists. They have studied information and insight to support their own work. I would assume that Mäkelä, for example, could be interested in such a project, which will end in December this year, where the research project will cover the external dimensions of the fight against terrorism. The results will be available in December. In other words, these are issues that are very closely related to Finland's security and future, and they are worth following closely.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u99	Mr President! I think it is very good that the Institute for Foreign Policy is here in connection with Parliament, because it is necessary to produce foresight information so that we can create both negative and positive scenarios for the future, including international relations and the international situation. It is then up to our decision-makers to act in such a way that these negative scenarios do not materialise and, on the other hand, to act in such a way as to support the positive scenarios. Of course we are a very small country globally, but that is precisely why producing such research and foresight information is our strength and asset, because, as we can read from this report, we will be well heard precisely through and through its high-quality research data. They want us to be heard and they want us to be involved in the debate. In my opinion, the study carried out by the Institute for Foreign Policy highlights precisely the diversity of voices and the various possible scenarios. In my opinion, this is not just a forced pass of one opinion. On this point, I fully agree with Mrs Essayah that there is a great deal of diversity and a wide variety of opinions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u100	Mr President! Neither do I have any comments to make on this actual audit report as such, but these different topics have now emerged, and I myself think that if you think above all about Finland's foreign policy and its expertise, it has traditionally been quite strongly focused on this traditional international policy, but when you go into the middle of foreign policy and economic policy, such questions that link these two, then at least there has not been too much in-depth analysis. I would see here that there is a need to address these issues specifically from a Finnish perspective, because today economic policy is a strong foreign policy and foreign policy is also an economic policy. I have also attended these various meetings of the Finnish Institute for Foreign Policy in recent times, which has dealt with some of these big, mega-class themes, and at least these seminars, interesting events, have been quite successful in bringing economic and foreign policy thinking together. I'm sure we'll be following this shipment now too, and I just want to say hello to you that this is a niche.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u101	Mr President! With reference to this debate, it is precisely these researchers who are independent — independent researchers, whose aim is to bring different perspectives to these, that was now discussed, even though European policy, what is happening within it. Their task is to study and bring that information, and then each of us will analyse that information and bring our own perspective to that debate. But it is not their job to be political players with absolute truth, but to bring that information to our disposal and then we will be able to use it, whether we talk about the EU, Russia, China or transatlantic relations and so on, and so on. For Mr Auto, on Arctic policy only enough that this has been involved in a number of studies by the Institute for Foreign Policy, and the Arctic region is particularly highlighted as a security factor, because, if the interests of the United States are taken into account, Russia's interests are taken into account or China's interests are taken into account, a great deal of emphasis has been placed on the northern Arctic region, and if so, we in Finland should be well aware of and awake to what is happening there. And we have always raised it in our own foreign policy and policy, up to the highest level, since the President of the Republic, and I believe that these Arctic issues were also strongly wallpapered in the White House yesterday. But if there is something to be clarified about this Arctic policy, as with these other areas of research, what should be studied by the Institute for Foreign Policy, then of course we members of the Advisory Council will be sending that message, and then they will try to direct the research so that these independent, good scientists will concentrate on something if there is a special desire for information in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u102	Mr President! I would also like to thank the representatives for their education in relation to the activities of the Institute for Foreign Policy. But I would like to point out the point that I hope that the terrorist investigation mentioned here by the representative of: I think Mr Kiuru pointed out that at least a changed researcher would have now since 2015, when it turned out that the Senior Researcher of the Institute for Foreign Policy published a blog on the UPI website telling a complete fairy tale that there might be terrorists infiltrated among the refugees and that this was actually a conspiracy theory by Isis, which aims to foment anti-fleetism in Europe. Well, then, knowing history, we know that in Paris just a few months after the publication of this blog. So the message is that there is no need for clairvoyants to be investigators, but there is no need for lingo talkers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u103	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on UaVM 1/2019 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u104	Mr President! Now from the wider foreign policy fields to this point closer to the Nordic countries and the neighbourhood. Of course, the Nordic countries are our most important partners, perhaps sometimes even our rivals, as if our siblings were working with them in every sector. When the Committee on Foreign Affairs prepared the report, we wanted to highlight the area of foreign and security policy that has already been identified several times in this report. Above all, it is what we have now wanted to keep and what has been raised in the Nordic Council last year. Traditionally there has been cooperation between Finland and Sweden, and this has already developed, but as the report shows, Norway and Denmark have also been increasingly interested in developing defence cooperation. In this context, we have also raised the issue of overall security, and I would like to emphasise internal security: what each of us is experiencing in our everyday lives and what is happening here in the Nordic countries, how we will be able to further develop cooperation with our neighbours. The Nordic Council has, and will always have, played an important role in breaking down border barriers and, in this context, what remains to prevent the emergence of border barriers. There are many points where it has been noted that cooperation between ministries works better in Finland, and I believe that many other Nordic countries would have to learn from us in how to further develop this border barrier cooperation and ensure that ministries speak better with each other. I would like to conclude by saying, Mr President, that in these times of instability it is important, above all, that partnerships and contacts should also be sought close. We are known for our well-being, including open-mindedness, openness, equality. The Nordic countries are a respected group both in Europe and in the rest of the world, and that is why we must increasingly ensure that we form common goals and push them through on a wider agenda than only within the Nordic Council.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u105	Mr President! We are dependent in many ways on the other Nordic countries and then on us. Representative Ovaska has already expressed our cooperation in security policy with merit. From the outset, the Nordic Council's aim has been to facilitate the mobility of individual citizens, including companies, goods and capital between the Nordic countries. As the world becomes ever more international and complex, the importance of this cooperation is emphasised, and so it is good that we are now delaying this subject for a while. During the reporting year, Katri Kulmuni, President of the Nordic Council Border Obstacles Group, highlighted the importance of removing barriers to business. There is a need for this, and it is important that the conditions for business life are streamlined because it serves us Finns but also then other Nordic countries. Now that we have been discussing the availability of nurses today, I think it is particularly important to pay attention to how we can keep our nurses here in the country so that they do not leave, as many have left, for example, because of working conditions, for example, to work in Norway. Finland is exemplary in many areas, but we can also take a model from other Nordic countries, for example, in how we organise the working conditions of our carers, and from Norway, for example, we could also take a model in regional policy to take on various incentives, such as in the field of transport taxation, that it is good for us to live, try and work in the whole country. It also serves Nordic cooperation. As we know, we have a very lively trade and business border on the Haparanna-Tornio border.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u106	Mr President! We will discuss a very important theme when we are able to discuss Nordic cooperation. Of course, this report by our own Nordic Council delegation has well highlighted what the Committee on Foreign Affairs notes in its report, too, that security cooperation has intensified strongly in recent years — and this is in the best interests of Finland. The fight against hybrid threats is also emphasised in security cooperation, which has certainly become a particularly important theme since the events of 2014, and I am sure that the Nordic countries have a lot to offer each other in this regard that we will be able to improve our readiness to combat these threats as well as each other. Mr President! We are living in interesting times in the history of European integration when we are already living on October and it is still quite unclear whether Great Britain is really leaving the European Union within the next month. Whatever happens in Britain's EU separation, there is an order for closer Nordic cooperation. But there is, of course, a very special order for Britain to resign from the EU, and there are certainly two different aspects: on the other hand, Britain is a key military force affecting the security environment in Europe, and in this respect, it is good that the Nordic countries can also apply for a common line, regardless of national specificities in defence solutions. But, on the other hand, Britain's possible EU separation would leave a significant gap within the European Union in the emphasis that Finland has traditionally represented, and it would certainly be particularly important to strengthen the link between Sweden and Denmark in the themes that Finland has traditionally considered important and for which I believe that Sweden and Denmark could be able to take our position, and of course Norway, as an EEA country, is also crucially dependent on what is being decided in the EU. In that sense, closer Nordic cooperation in this situation and influencing the EU during such a very important period of development is really important when we are preparing for this possible post-brexit period and are about to enter into negotiations on the EU's financial framework and, on the other hand, we are reforming the common agricultural policy, which is of course important in the EU. Mr President! In this regard, indeed, the representatives of Ovaska and Aittakumpu, who are well-known and well-known representatives of this theme, spoke very well about dismantling border barriers and, on the other hand, preventing them from being formed in legislative processes. This is very important work, and I am sure that we all share a common will to influence our Nordic partners in such a way that these border barriers will not be created and those already formed will be dismantled. In this context, I would also like to stress the importance of resources for border management. Since these border barriers exist and, of course, there are natural differences due to the differences between languages and cultures, it is important that border counselling is adequately resourced so that businesses and individuals can then be helped to get to the practical questions that arise in activities that cross the borders of everyday life. This is important. Mr President! I believe that the Nordic countries would now have a particularly important role to play in raising these Arctic issues in the European debate. Of course, the Nordic countries are in a slightly different position in this way, that although we are all members of the Arctic Council, there is Denmark, which, through Greenland, feels to be a very important player in the Arctic – which is of course – has perhaps traditionally stressed a little different importance in the cooperation of the Arctic Sea coastal states, whereas Finland and Sweden — both of them, quite arctic countries, but we are not these Arctic coastal states — may have stressed a few different issues. But when we know how huge the growing importance of the Arctic is, it is really important that the Finnish Government should hopefully also make other Nordic countries commit to this Arctic theme. There has already been a debate here today on how Africa is a rising theme, and the Finnish Government has on many occasions stressed this issue of Africa. The Finnish Government has been delighted that our future EU Commissioner has an African portfolio, and so on. This is certainly important in itself, but it must not be out of the fact that we have a strong focus on Arctic issues, because Finland is and remains in the middle of the Arctic region of Europe, and then the issues here are the most important for us. Mr President! The Lapland Chamber of Commerce has estimated that the investment potential here in Europe's Arctic region will be EUR 195 billion for the coming decades, and the Lapland Chamber of Commerce estimates that over the next five years, EUR 23.5 billion will be invested in Europe's Arctic region. It is clear, of course, that these investments are affected by economic developments, but it is important to understand this dimension. This is a huge potential for Finnish business activities. Mr President! When I am often asked that well, Mr Autto, what is Arctic expertise then, I have answered the questioners that when scratched out of the Arctic, it is everyday knowledge, what we Finns know, that in these demanding conditions in which we operate in the north, society works, we have infrastructure that works, energy supply that works, housing that is high-quality and responds to the needs we have here. In this sense, the fact that investment in large energy projects in northern Norway does not mean that even Finnish energy operators need to be there to invest. You need roads, you need terraced houses, you need power connections, for example. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u107	Mr President! As a current member of the Nordic Council delegation to Finland and a member of the Nordic Committee on Knowledge and Culture, I would like to say a few words on the Council's annual report last year. 67 years ago, the Nordic Council was established as an interparliamentary and intergovernmental body. After the Second World War, there was a desire to intensify cooperation between the Nordic countries. The need has not been reduced at all during this uncertain and unstable period. Security cooperation has intensified, as Mr Autto described well above. The Council will influence governments by making various proposals, recommendations and questions and by issuing opinions on issues that benefit the entire northern region from the Nordic countries. The aim is to develop Nordic cohesion, increase Nordic expertise and competitiveness and strengthen the international impact of the Nordic countries. In 2018, the Council issued important recommendations to governments. I would like to highlight two examples relating to internal security, which Mr Ovaska has already mentioned: Recommendation 8 on overall defence and preparedness and security of supply planning recommends to the governments that they examine how cooperation between the Nordic Defence Forces and the police authorities can be developed and how the crisis awareness of the Nordic citizens can be improved through Nordic cooperation — still a timely recommendation. The second is the recommendation on support for students at risk, in which the Nordic Council recommends that it be examined whether the Students at Risk programme could be implemented in all Nordic countries. During the reporting year, the Finnish delegation has held a dialogue with ministers, authorities and organisations. There's strength in working together. We can learn from each other, as Mr Aittakumpu said before. It is a good thing that the delegation raised these barriers when it had a debate and dialogue with these ministers in particular. Removing these border barriers and increasing freedom of movement are still important to us, which are progressing slowly, but certainly. The issue of security has also been significant. The Council also continued its active work in international arenas and also worked closely with other parliamentary organisations in the region, and it has also been accompanied by a debate on this Arctic region and its importance. Mr President! This important work continues, and I agree that this Arctic perspective must also play a greater role in Nordic cooperation. The Presidency of the Council of Ministers is currently chaired by Iceland, the title of which is a programme of good shortcuts. That title has been inspired by the almost 1,000-year-old Edda poetry of Vikings. The poem's verses tell us that there's always a shortcut to a good friend. In my opinion, the title refers in a great way to the friendship between the Nordic countries, which is characterised by mobility and strong mutual cooperation. We should take good care of this friendship. Thank you very much. Nordic cooperation, which is important to the Nordic Council and the Finnish delegation, strengthens our neighbourhood. There's always a shortcut to a good friend.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u108	Mr President! It is extremely important to strengthen Nordic cooperation in this changing and uncertain world, and we recommend Nordic cooperation in particular in terms of security of supply and border security, internal security. It is also very important that, in the shadow of the EU, we raise this Nordic cooperation quite differently from what has been done so far. Ensuring our external borders and increasing border controls will certainly come into play in the future. There is also one very good thing about Nordic cooperation: we can learn from each other. One important thing is education, education. The entire beginning of the year was reported in Sweden, including Svenska Dagbladet and Skolvärlden, on how Finland is reforming its teaching. It was warned that do not do the same things that Sweden has done, do not learn from them but make better decisions, do not wreck your own teaching system. This is part of the cooperation that is worthwhile in the Nordic countries. Where something works well, it is shared with others — stick to it for its own good and share it with others.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u109	Mr President! The Nordic Council is of great importance and, within it, we can exchange ideas and ideas on how best we can work together for the benefit of all, learn from the successes and failures of others. At the Barents Parliamentary Conference the other week, we discussed, among other things, rail connections and the need for more in the East-West direction. They do exist in the north to the south, but there are some links in the east to the west, and they would be very necessary in order to promote cooperation. In recent years, the popularity of the Arctic region has skyrocketed. We talk a lot about the opening up of the North-East route to maritime transport and the importance it would have for the world economy. Nordic cooperation is also important because, for example, a common EU policy would make us much stronger in the EU and be able to promote Nordic interests. However, we are quite similar in our culture, and in that sense the interests that are controlled there are quite common. Very meaningful cooperation is taking place in the Nordic countries. That may not always be known to everyone. Russia is also involved in the Barents region, and we also have contacts there. So, yes, this is an important issue. I would like to highlight those border barriers when I am from Tornio and have been crossing the border for many years at work. Border barriers are very much related to such administrative activities, taxation and other issues, which can be found if desired. There are also many obstacles to IT connections, i.e. it-connection across borders cannot be achieved through current technology and legislation. I stress the importance of the Nordic Council and the importance of border cooperation in the future and in EU policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u111	Mr President! While I was still listening to Mr Juuso's good speech and these other speeches, I remember only my different tasks recently that Nordic cooperation is of great importance. For example, I am now taking health care because, for example, we have a lot of situations in northern Finland where there is a health centre closer to another Nordic country than that health centre or hospital. Then we should have such good cooperation — and it is worth constantly working on — that the language does not become a problem, but it is precisely the health care of the other country that can be used. And that's what we've been working on over the years. Another important issue is security, because we have very long distances in the north of Finland: for example, the ability of the police to help in every case is very limited, and that is why security cooperation is also needed, not to mention cooperation on education. We also need education and to satisfy the many needs of people in general, that we also have the Nordic expertise. I think it is very important that these issues and this border cooperation, border management, are also maintained in the Nordic Council.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u112	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 3/2019 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u113	Mr President! As a fresh chairman of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, I am delighted to present this report to you. This is therefore a proposal from the Government for a law amending Articles 70 and 76 of the Act on Early Education. This proposal proposes to amend the transitional rule governing the introduction of the knowledge reserve for early childhood education. Preparations for the deployment of the staff data set of the data reserve have not progressed as planned in terms of definitions and system integrations and the level of preparedness of municipalities for data transfer. The introduction of early education personnel data cannot be carried out within the time frame laid down by law, and that is why we have had the notions of a government proposal to amend this transitional provision. Now I will tell you the committee's position on this matter. First of all, general arguments: The committee considers it necessary and appropriate to amend the transitional provision of Act No 540/2018 on early childhood education concerning the introduction of the data reserve so as to extend by one year the date of entry into force of the obligation to store information on the staff of early childhood education of the municipality and the association of municipalities. It therefore starts on 1.9.2020 when, according to the law in force, it started on 1.9.2019. The remaining transitional periods for municipalities and joint municipal authorities and private service providers will remain in accordance with the law in force. Work to collect and store data in the data reserve of early childhood education has started in accordance with the transitional provisions for municipalities and joint municipal authorities. Information on the organisers of early childhood education and their establishments and on children and their guardians participating in early childhood education has been collected in the data reserve. The aim was to start recording data on the personnel in early childhood education of municipalities and joint municipal boards in autumn 2019, but it turned out to be more difficult than anticipated due to significant IT challenges. The information provided by municipal early childhood education providers is more fragmented and organised in different ways than was known when drafting the relevant legislation. In accordance with the transitional provision, the time for making data resource integrations, testing and the implementation of the compatibility of data content with data security proved to be too limited for municipalities, joint municipal authorities and the providers of these systems. The committee considers it necessary to remove the provision on the early childhood education law from the obligation of the municipality to record separately the number of early childhood education places and service providers which it has acquired and organised by means of a service voucher. According to the Government's proposal, this information is reflected in the data reserve of early childhood education without separate storage, so it is not necessary to store it separately. The committee supports the adoption of the bill contained in the government proposal with the following comments and amendments. First of all, the views of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the authorisation of a regulation: The Government proposal proposes to amend the transitional provision of the Act on Early Childhood Education (Article 76) By decree of the Government, with the exception of the obligation to store data pursuant to Article 76(1), the beginning of the obligation to store data on the data reserve of early childhood education is governed by the law. In its Opinion 3/2019, the Constitutional Committee states that the provision of the power to adopt a regulation is relevant to Article 79(3) of the Constitution. It states that the law should indicate when it will come into force. For particular reasons, the law may provide that the date of its entry into force is to be laid down in a regulation. This may be the case, for example, when different parts of a large package of legislation have to come into force at the same time and it is not appropriate or possible to confirm that date when the law is being enacted. In practice, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also been regarded as a specific reason for the link between the entry into force of the law and the entry into force of Finland's international obligations or, for example, of European Union law. The amendment proposed by the Government to Article 76 of the Act on Early Education is justified by the fact that the introduction of the data reserve cannot be carried out within the time limits laid down by the Act. The preparation for the introduction of the data reserve has not progressed as planned with regard to the level of preparedness of information system integrations and the transfer of data by municipalities. According to the Government's proposal, the regulation is a more flexible way of taking into account possible unforeseen factors that may affect the implementation of the information system integration and the entire data resource. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that it did not consider that the reasons for the timetable for such administrative measures met the requirement of a specific reason within the meaning of Article 79(3) of the Constitution. Such measures are customary in legislation and the necessary time may be reserved for them to decide on the date of entry into force of the law when the law is adopted. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it is not important for the assessment to be made that we are now looking at granting an extension to the implementation of the existing regulation. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore considers that Article 76(2) of the draft law needs to be amended in order to deal with the draft law in this respect in the order of adoption of the ordinary law. In the light of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs proposes amendments to the draft law so that the provisions on the start of the obligation to store information are incorporated into the law instead of the mandate for the adoption of a regulation. Finally, Mr President, the committee draws attention to the implementation of the recording work on the collection of the data reserve for early childhood education within the prescribed time frame, while at the same time identifying the possible challenges related to the timetable, in particular with regard to the introduction of a set of data on the staff of private early childhood education providers. The committee stresses the need to ensure that early childhood education actors receive adequate guidance and guidance on their obligations to introduce the information reserve within the prescribed timeframe. This report was completely unanimous. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u114	Madam President! The Committee on Culture has done a good job in drawing up this report under the leadership of its chairman, Mr Risiko, and I am sure that at first reading no one has anything to say about this content of the report. But this theme of why, for example, we now have to extend this transition by one year, perhaps tells us of the practical problem that is most troubling for Finnish society at the moment, namely that our information systems and archived information are so fragmented that it is very difficult to obtain in the planned timetable a working set of entities in which information systems would otherwise support the timetable for the reform of organisations. In this sense, there are situations in the municipalities — perhaps even in the provinces to be established in the future — in which this ict side of the world is actually going to be crammed, when, by the way, this activity should already be repositioned, and in this sense, of course, this Chamber has a great responsibility — when billions of dollars are spent annually on these issues relating to information management, whether the software side or the real systems, on the one hand, and the hardware that is needed on the other — that all the investments that are being made from now on would be such that they support such a large whole, where knowledge is always available, and — when we are a small nation, a small country — that it would not really be broken down in a way that is now, for example, the early education operators.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u115	Mr President! In fact, Mr Autto said that there would be such difficulties in the field. I think that this government proposal was an excellent example of listening to that field. There have been difficulties there and, as we said in our report, they are due to a great many things. One of the reasons was these computer problems, but this information, which has been stored there, has also been very fragmented. I think that this experience now, that we are giving more time, is a good example of reacting, but it will also, of course, teach us to legislate in the future to take these needs into account in good time, and that is why it is important to pay attention to it. In addition, it is worth noting that we do not, for example, present the power of regulation in situations which are not constitutional. It is great that we have a Constitutional Committee here in Parliament, which can then always be consulted and consulted. In this situation too, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs agreed with us and supported us there. But this government proposal, of course, teaches in many ways. This was a relatively small but nevertheless very, very important issue, and there too was such a need for constitutional change. I am glad that this has been corrected, and we had an excellent debate on this too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u116	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 1/2019 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-03-ps-43.u117	Madam President! This is therefore a government proposal to the Parliament for the approval and enforcement of the agreement on air transport with Chile and is now the subject of a report by the Committee on Transport and Communications. The committee's report is completely unanimous, and the proposal for a decision is for Parliament to adopt without amendment the bill contained in the government proposal HE 12/2019. All in all, this point and also the two following are air transport agreements: this is with Chile, the next one is with Kenya and the third one with Mexico. These are precisely agreements that Finland has concluded, bilateral air transport agreements with the three countries with which there have never been bilateral air transport agreements before. These agreements offer new opportunities for air transport: these agreements allow for the development of air transport relations and air transport markets between countries. The agreements promote Finland's competitiveness by improving the conditions for business and entrepreneurship, and above all they improve Finland's accessibility. The main content of these air transport agreements, all three of them, is that they include exemptions from certain taxes, duties and other charges in accordance with international practice for international air transport. The designated airlines of both parties have equal opportunities to operate air services on the routes defined in the agreement and the agreement defines the rights and obligations of airlines when operating air transport. And, as I said at the outset, the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications is entirely unanimous.
