ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-29-ps-73.u1	A point of order 6 will be presented for the presentation of the interim question. Representatives Kai Mykkänen and 41 other representatives have asked a question in the interim VK 2/2019 vp about corporate governance, the labour market situation and information given to Parliament. I now give the floor to the first signatory of the intermediate question.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-29-ps-73.u2	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. Representative Heinonen — gone.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-29-ps-73.u3	Mr President! I am not gone, as the prime minister of our country seems to be. I understand that the Prime Minister is not listening to what I have to say, although perhaps he should be, but I am surprised that he was neither present nor any other minister but one when a mid-term issue is being raised in Parliament. Once again, we do not know what we are talking about in Finland when we are not listening.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-29-ps-73.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-29-ps-73.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-29-ps-73.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-29-ps-73.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-29-ps-73.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-29-ps-73.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-29-ps-73.u10	Mr President! This is a report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. The amendments to the Act on the temporary limitation of certain legal acts of municipalities and joint municipal boards in social and health care are intended to ensure that new regions formed on the basis of social welfare reform have the opportunity to modify the service structure in accordance with the needs of the residents and on an equal basis. In addition, it is intended to prevent the conversion of production structures in such a way as to reduce their conversion to the needs of the whole region. It is proposed to extend the limitation law until the end of 2025. It is quite right that the extension of this restriction law is the result of a delay in the reform of the social security system. It would be very important for us to be informed as soon as possible about the social reform which is to come, and possibly of the proposals, so that both the Members of Parliament and the local and regional authorities are able to prepare themselves for the investment that might be required by the forthcoming reform. This restriction law proposes to strengthen the obligation to include the condition of dismissal in outsourcing contracts, the value of which alone or in combination with other agreements exceeds 15 % of the annual expenditure on social and health care held by the municipality or joint municipal authority. In the current law, the limit is 30%. It is very important that we have doctors, we have nurses and we have social and health care reform in such a way that its costs are not too high for its recipients either. So look at the customer fees when it's time. But we're looking forward to it. With regard to this social and health reform, I would have missed the parliamentary working group which Prime Minister Rinne himself supported in March when he was still in the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-29-ps-73.u11	Mr President! At first, I must admit that I understand this government proposal very well. Of course, when preparing for a major system-level reform, efforts will be made to ensure that, during that time, the municipalities do not make decisions which will then make it difficult to put the future reform into practice. But like Mr Heinonen, I am concerned about whether the necessary and urgent corrections are needed to deal with the mental health problems of children, young people and others in some way, then postponing the completion of the package of social welfare reform. This should not be done. It is true — and I commend the government for this — that the government is investing EUR 10 million in the treatment of mental health problems next year and a total of EUR 60 million in three years, but after that the government will propose an additional EUR 18 million as permanent funding, and yet we know that the therapy guarantee under the Therapy Guarantee Citizens' Initiative on the initiative of mental health organisations would cost some EUR 35 million a year. The aim of the therapy guarantee is, of course, to provide young people, but not young people, with help and care in good time for their mental disorders and mental health problems. Once this therapeutic guarantee has been discussed here, all parties, I suppose, have very warmly spoken out in favour of the therapeutic guarantee. Therefore, I myself am appealing to the government parties — most of which I think are now holding a group meeting — now that the budget is being dealt with here in Parliament and you have the power and responsibility for what will be placed on next year’s budget, that the EUR 35 million of funding from the citizens’ initiative should be allocated to the therapy guarantee and that the therapy guarantee should therefore be implemented next year and not wait for the reform of the social security system, nor for any other broader reform. For example, the Evening Sanomat has reported a series of serious facts about the state of mental health services for young people at the moment. We do not have much time to wait for those situations to be resolved.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-29-ps-73.u12	The 10th item in the order of business is presented in part to the only, partly to the second reading. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the UaVM 5/2019 vp, it will be decided at the sole reading of the agreement and then at the second reading of the draft law.
