ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the Minister to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u2	Let's get started. Social Democratic Parliament Group, Mr Kiljunen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u3	Mr President! Yesterday, the government's proposal on social security again got cold feet, this time from the Economic Policy Evaluation Council. The Economic Policy Review Council reiterates that the savings of €3 billion in social welfare reform are very unlikely. In addition, they point out that a strict target of savings can jeopardise the quality of services and people's access to the necessary services. These are serious messages. The evaluation council’s words on the economy are worded as follows: ‘Because cost savings are very uncertain, their use ofthe reformisimportantly relevant. “ Mr Orpo, how do you respond to this very serious criticism of the Economic Policy Review Council?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u4	Mr President! Firstly, as far as health services in Finland are concerned, I see an even greater risk of not moving forward with reform, much greater risk when you look at the challenges we face in the 2020s. I recognise from the evaluation council their concerns, which they have raised in the past, and, above all, it also notes that it is difficult to assess savings. But it is about building a new system, driving it in, implementing it in the provinces by the top Finnish factors, and ultimately deciding whether the savings will come about, whether new areas of organisation of the size of the province will be created where access to care is smooth, where service chains play, where production is efficient, where information flow, modern customs are used. In the end, it will be resolved that this will happen, and I believe in Finnish professionals that they will make a good mess, as long as we can only get the decision out of this house.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u5	Mr President! Originally, the aim of the social welfare reform was to ensure that everyone in Finland could be provided with better services so that people could get to the doctor and be treated. This was a common goal for all of us. But this is not going to happen, for the constitutional expert, Professor Juha Lavapuro points out, inter alia, that ‘the proposal seems to lead to the fact that the role of the people who need a large number ofservices is only Similarly,the Constitutional Expert,Professor TuomasOjanen says that‘there are a lot of problems in Prime Minister, can you promise, on behalf of your government, that this reform will secure better social and health services for everyone?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u6	Mr President! Firstly, these economic impact assessments. It's always hard to judge the future. The evaluation council itself has stated that their assessment of the competitiveness pact went wrong — the same went wrong with the assessment of the employment rate. Here, too, we are now making a platform, as if we were planning 18 plots and building houses in them, and that outcome depends on how good builders we can build there and with what enthusiasm it is being implemented and built. We now give the frame, and I believe that there will be good and zealous builders in the provinces. The starting point for the reform is that services will improve and costs will be reduced, and all of this will provide excellent conditions for it. But their assessment of progress is extremely difficult, at least making promises about it, because that depends on how well we all implement this good reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u7	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u8	Madam President! It has been so, you can almost say, long-winded that these goals have been forgotten many times, and it is good to recall them. The first was to reduce health inequalities. We have a well-off, educated man from a good neighborhood who lives almost 10 years longer than a man with a low level of education, which comes from a worse neighborhood or who has a low income. Seamless care chains were to be implemented, supranational companies were to be curbed, as well as cost levels were to be curbed. Well, now the Evaluation Council has estimated that it is completely questionable whether these objectives will be fulfilled. For my own province, EUR 33 million is being cut from social security funding. In other words, these decision-makers are immediately faced with the need to increase taxes and charges or to cut down on services. Minister, is there any more of these original aims of the war?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u9	Mr President! - There is left. This question, which is rightly raised as the main question of Question Time by the opposition, is that I would like to remind you that there have been no changes on the part of the government in this proposal since the summer of 2018. The latest picture of the government's will gave our response to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health after the debate on the Constitutional Committee. The first parts of this piece of legislation have already been delivered to Parliament in spring 2017. In spite of the fact that the debate is now, as it were, new questions, which are all affected by this, it is important to point out that we have not provided any new information on the part of the government, but that this process is now firmly in the hands of Parliament and its committee. On these very important points, the Government will answer: yes, the proposal will respond to them, its assessment will ultimately be made by the Constitutional Committee and the Social Affairs and Health Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u10	And Minister Orphan is still completing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u11	Madam President! If, as the evaluation council says, it is difficult to estimate the final figures for the future reform, then I can say that if there is no reform, it is quite certain that cuts will have to be made in municipalities, hospital districts, joint municipal boards, because the current structure is inefficient. Countless municipalities and joint municipal authorities are in a situation where resources are not sufficient to provide basic human services, social welfare and health services. If this does not go through, then we will continue with the current system for x years, and that means cuts to social and health services. We need to reform. However, here we have the basic bodies that are approved by almost every parliamentary group, moving forward with this. As I said, trust Finnish top-level social and health services. Support good leadership when this reform starts, support the work that is already being done in the provinces, cross-party cooperation. Now is only the time to make decisive decisions and thus secure the important social and health services of Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u12	Mr President! Indeed, the goals were very right in how to ensure that everyone in Finland has access to healthcare, and better than at present. But now it has happened that every single week new and worrying information has come about the achievement of these objectives. The Parliamentary Audit Committee took part in a review of this economic aspect of whether these savings were coming to fruition. And the depressing truth is that all the experts who walked in had a common message. They believe that with this model, which the government has chosen, these savings will not be reached. Even those on the private side who have now provided services say that these last changes in government from their point of view will lead to the observation that special care and primary health care are being re-differentiated that they do not see savings coming. I mean, the messages are really worrying. That is why I ask how this information from Åland now affects the matter. It has now been reported that there is a disagreement in the government about how matters in Åland are handled in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u13	Mr President! Åland also joins the social welfare reform in a way that changes the structure of funding, and Åland must be taken into account in this preparation. The Government has had discussions with the Åland Islands, and officials have had two different ideas as to whether this matter should be dealt with during this parliamentary term or only during the next parliamentary term. We have two views from officials, and now we are waiting for what the Constitutional Committee will say about this, and we will, of course, act accordingly. There has been reference to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on many occasions, and I think that we are on a little slippery ice as parliamentarians at the time, because the Constitutional Committee is the supreme body in Finland, which has absolutely sovereign power over how the Constitution is interpreted. These issues are now before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We should allow the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to complete its work, and then we will act accordingly again, as we have done so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u14	Madam President! The original objectives include not only reducing health inequalities, but also the EUR 3 billion saved from this future cost framework, right? And of this savings target, some 1.7 billion were savings in health services. On the other hand, when you go down, 700 million should be saved from the services of the elderly. These were the original objectives. When we heard from experts in the Committee on Finance, everyone agreed that this model would not achieve these savings. We did not even know with billions of dollars how much the cost will increase. So this sled turned just the opposite of what the government originally set out to achieve, i.e. savings in the cost framework. I would ask the Minister what you will say to the housekeepers and the family carers and many others who are doing this valuable work at home. Forty per cent of the customers of 24-hour housing services should be transferred to home care in the future in order to achieve these savings. What are you going to say to those who are currently changing sectors, precisely because it is still the case at the moment?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u15	Mr President! For those people who care for their families, I am happy to say that this reform will bring together and harmonise the framework conditions for access to, for example, informal care support. Instead of being able to obtain euros and support for their ownness, those conditions will in future be the size of the whole province, even in neighbouring municipalities, which currently live in different municipalities. I am also aware that all parliamentary parties have committed themselves to the objective that social welfare reform contributes to in terms of structures: that we will strengthen the services to be taken home and the social change in institutional care towards safe housing at home. The cost-effectiveness of this reform is not unambiguous and we cannot tell the Finns that the structures would produce savings, but if, after ten years of preparation or even a longer period of time, we finally get a common understanding of what is the organisation and administration of services, then it will be much better to focus on the efficiency of the content of services and also on improving work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u16	Mr President! Minister Saarikko, I think that you are ignoring the structure of this issue. If you look at the opinion of yesterday's Economic Assessment Council and then at the opinion of VATTI, then both point out that this framework on which social welfare reform is built must be disbelief in terms of savings. Because the regions are not given the right to tax, they do not have the opportunity, as it were, to plan their own services, their own production in such a way that the services are guaranteed to all citizens and at the same time have the opportunity to consider for themselves where the savings come from. At the same time, experts warn that when the regions will have too little resources, the most affected are these people who need a lot of services. This is what the constitutional scholars are warning you about. And at the same time, you will then produce a bill on customer fees, which will continue to increase the costs of these poorest people, the most affected, by hundreds of euros a year.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u17	Mr President! Of course, I'd be happy to answer this hard accusation. Firstly, with regard to these cost estimates: The Government has used Nordic Healthcare Group to prepare them, which has perhaps made some of Finland's best-known consultants' assessments in comparison with the current state and this newer model. It is also true, as I said earlier, that the cost assessment is not particularly easy, especially — which is not always mentioned in this debate — when, in Finland, the need for common funds for social and health services will increase significantly. In any case, we will need an enormous amount of additional euros for the services of Finnish elderly people, above all. In almost every province we face a new situation with regard to the maintenance of the population, and that means that we are in any case spending more money. Now the question is how much more we are going to have to spend than we are now, and I am not quite sure, after what the representative has said, whether you want us to have a more efficient economy, or whether you want us to spend even more money on these services.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u18	Madam President! The sad thing about this debate, which is taking place in this Chamber and also outside this house, is that that future reform of the province and of the social economy will be seen as a bogeyman because of the current situation. Here too, we have just spoken about the future plundering of transnational companies, and we are afraid that this market model will enable this to happen. But, people, this is happening already. And that is why we need a regional and social reform in which we have a province to give to who works and how it works. The second point is that who will judge what will happen if this reform is not carried out. At the moment, I claim — and I believe many constitutional experts agree — that people are not equal in the accessibility of social and health services. That is why we are doing this reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u19	Mr President! I will focus primarily on supporting it — not so much on the image of the reform, which is also important — but perhaps the Finns most expect information about whether this reform will come or not. And to every question I have tried to answer in this Chamber, to the best of my ability, when we have asked about the possible effects of this reform. It is a fact that risk-free is never such a big reform, but we have also tried, to the best of our ability, to justify why this big reform is needed in an ageing Finland, where, in addition to that, the big variable factor is, for example, hospital and health centre properties, where we know there is a great deal of need to repair, not to mention the content of services and the opposition's right to raise the issue of combating inequalities from the point of view of health inequalities. As far as private and public health and social services are concerned, I would like to say the same thing, which perhaps has already arisen in the following areas: Private health services and social services are already available in Finland. There are municipalities where much more than half of the services are carried out in the form of private purchases. This new model differs
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u20	The Christian Democratic Group in Parliament was concerned with this same theme, let us take it here now. Congressman Essayah, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u21	Madam President! The Evaluation Council also criticises the fact that the role of occupational health care and the issue of overlapping insurance will not be resolved in this social security reform, which may contribute to increasing public sector costs. I would have liked to ask the minister in question: is it not clear from this that the reform will strengthen the position of those customers who are already in very good health and social services, and then the improvement of services for vulnerable people will remain very unclear?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u22	Mr President! The evaluation council, which has been referred to a great deal here today, assumes that, in any case, everyone is an estimate, but in their view, access to services and, as it were, access to health care will improve for all population groups. That's how I understood their judgment. With regard to this aspect of occupational health care: Mr Essayah, you are quite right in this respect that there is currently a difference in the position of people working in Finland, in so far as it also relates to occupational health care funded by employers and employees in respect of their contributions. This is a fact that must be taken into account in future compensation models for these basic services for public and private producers, that a certain proportion of the population — that is, the working proportion of Finns — is in a special position in that respect. And this is a well-known research by the National Institute for Health and Welfare, and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is now working hard together with many people on how to build those compensation models. in Sweden, where:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u23	Madam President! These cost compensations also cause problems. If the amount of compensation and the cost of the customer do not match, there is certainly a risk that service providers will start to select their customers in different ways, and customer selection may become a very significant and long-term problem. Let's talk about the so-called circular door models. The improvement in the availability of services is also unclear. Now that so much criticism has been raised from various quarters in recent times of this reform, these key objectives, which the parties in this Chamber have also been very unanimous on — do they not seem to be quite, rather unclear? At this stage, should we not begin to think about how to get ahead of this and how to really ensure that the original objectives that all parties have been jointly pursuing will be achieved by improving the services of citizens?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u24	Mr President! From the government's point of view, of course, all this would now be achieved by the fact that Parliament will quickly, but with all its expertise, go through the final phase of this reform and the great hall will vote this proposal as a stone foot and as a basis for new Finnish social and health services. The model is unlikely to remain unchanged for decades. It is quite clear that the reform will be rejected, and, as I mentioned in my reply earlier, even if it is those compensation models for service providers in the Swedish model that have been different from one region to another and the result of very long working. In principle, when you referred to the fact that there has been a lot of new information on the impact of this model, we believe that the proposal has now been in the hands of Parliament as such, as a whole brought by the Government since last summer as a large package, and in this respect there is no new information on the changes to its effects for us. Mr President! In short, I would also like to correct the incorrect information on the part of the representative. The customer and the user of the services, the patient, may choose, but the service provider may not choose who will end up with them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u25	Madam President! The reform of social welfare and health care is carried out to ensure that every Finn receives social welfare and health care services with tax resources. This is very important. As a citizen of Helsinki, I know that about 70 per cent of families with children, for example, have insurance because public health care does not work on an equal and equal footing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u28	Mr President! I think Mr Sarkomaa rightly said: people do these services, those professionals who, even at the moment, are visiting a doctor or seeing a nursing staff, have a wide range of social workers. We have tried with Mr Vehviläinen to send a strong message to the regions that the outcome, the much-speaked implementation, is certainly better if staff are involved in the preparation of this change from the outset. We know that there have been regional differences, but I understand that right now the situation is good in this regard. Of course, the reform will be carried out for the users of the services, but I do not think that we can be satisfied with the current state of the services from the staff's point of view either. We hear such distressing messages about, for example, the ability of nursing staff, such as local nurses, to cope with their work. And in this regard, if the structure is completed, we will have more resources to focus together on improving the content, the implementation which this debate has often referred to.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u29	Next, the question of the Finnish Parliament Group. Congressman Tavio, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u30	Mr President! Yle interviewed the unemployed Juha, a shipbuilder from Turku. In the case, Juha asked why he is not fit to work, even though shipyards need more labor. There are thousands of unemployed professionals like Juha only in south-west Finland. The public has been told that there is a crying labour shortage in Finland. In reality, the shortage is not as severe as it is reported, but it is often more about the desire to bring more cheap foreign labour to Finland. Foreign workers are recruited through subcontractors underpaid. Wages are clearly below the Finnish contract level, and Finnish employees are allowed to stay at home. The Finns Party wants to take a new direction in employment policy, in which Finland is being built with the help of Finns at the Finnish wage level. So I ask the government: are you going to improve the position of a Finnish worker in those sectors that now favour cheap foreign labour?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u32	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Tavio, for the timely question. I have today, for example, given an interview to Yle Pori on this matter and explained these backgrounds to what is in my area of responsibility — my responsibility is not health and safety at work or tax issues. But I agree entirely with the questioner: when people come to work in Finland, they work here under Finnish working conditions. I am therefore also defending a universally binding collective agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u35	I would ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question on this subject to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u36	Mr President! This problem has long been known. You have been Minister of Labour for four years, so I therefore, of course, expected concrete measures from you on how you have intervened.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u37	Mr President! In the Government Programme, it was agreed not to give up on the issue of needs, and that is what I have defended. It is precisely because of these questions that you raised that the need to consider has not been abandoned. Secondly, if a company, or when a company — does not ‘but’ — needs skilled labour and if it finds work in Finland, it will seek it from someone else. That is perfectly understandable. If you come here to work from abroad, Finnish working conditions are respected — point. This is definitely the case. But it must be understood that I am not responsible for health and safety at work, that health and safety circles are responsible for the supervision,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u40	Mr President! Chained contracts are a big problem on construction sites. It is difficult to find the ultimate bearer when there are problems and there are far too many of them. Minister, are you prepared to consider a model for legislation to define the limit of the number of levels allowed for chained works? In some countries such a model is already in place.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u42	Mr President! I'd be ready for this kind of chain responsibility. I have already spoken about it several times in the last parliamentary term. I know that the further the chain goes, the harder and more obscure it will be to tackle these injustices, especially in the subcontracting chain. When we talk about combating the shadow economy, that means that resources must then be allocated to it, in Finnish to say money. This has, of course, been difficult all along in this challenging economic situation, but the government has taken measures against the shadow economy. I'm sure the Minister of Finance Orpo will answer the tax number. He probably has better information about it than I do, but the government has taken action.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u43	Madam President! First of all, that Minister Lindström hasn't done too well. We have an employment rate of 72.5% at the moment. The evaluation council was also surprised by the good results achieved. Unemployment 6.6 per cent, so low has not been for ever. Much has been achieved through countless different measures. We are currently working on the use of the tax number by a government decision. After all, we have a tax number in the construction sector and we have very good experience with it. The report is about to be completed by the Ministry of Finance these days. To explore its expansion into shipbuilding, restaurants and cleaning. We will certainly return to this in this Chamber shortly. As I said, it has been a very good experience. It is a good way to tackle tax evasion or the black economy or inequality in Finnish workplaces.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u44	To the group of the original questioner. Congressman Lehto, please, a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u45	Madam President! In an interview with the economy over a year ago, the Minister of Finance, Orpo, said that immigration is needed, and in connection with immigration, in part, you proposed wage reductions for people with skills gaps. This also applies to Finnish workers. So you also want a salary reduction for Finnish workers. The government introduced an active model for the unemployed, which in practice forces the unemployed to take on any job and, of course, a minimum wage. Otherwise, unemployment benefit will be reduced. You want the foreign labour force and the wages of a Finnish worker down. So I ask you, Minister Orpo: do you want to squat on a Finnish worker by offering them a salary that does not work in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u46	Oh, my God! I don't recognize the kind of interview I gave. I have said that we have a challenge, and the challenge is that if you have a lack of language skills and a lack of skills, it is difficult to find employment. Of course, this applies especially to immigrants who have less education, less language skills, but in the same way if you have a disabled Finnish unemployed person, a disabled person, then it is difficult to find employment. I have wondered how we could support their employment. I have never mentioned two labour markets anywhere. It is quite wrong that you are trying to give such an image and once again in the course of this immigration debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u47	Next, the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr Hassi, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u48	Mr President! In Oriwater, an illegal landfill was discovered at the Dragon Mining mine. In Nivala, a Canadian mining company left environmental damage to taxpayers. Not one of the lakes contaminated by Winterfell has yet been restored. The Mining Act of 2011 was an improvement to the past but quite inadequate. The citizens' initiative to reform the Mining Act, which was submitted the other day, has already received more than 2,000 signatures. The reform has also been called for by a number of environmental law experts and also by Parliament when ratifying the EU-Canada Trade Agreement. Is the government preparing the reform of the Mining Act in such a way as to increase the power of local residents, municipalities and indigenous people, and to compensate society for non-renewable natural resources, for example, in the form of a mining tax?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u49	Mr President! There is no new mining law in preparation of the government immediately. One of the key reasons for this is that the mining law currently in force is relatively new and that there is not yet any functioning well in Finland. At the moment there is one mine that has received permits on the basis of it, but there is none that works. We, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of the Environment, have begun a survey of what, could we say, there are flaws between our responsibilities — which belong to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and which belong to the Ministry of the Environment — which could be given attention and which could bring supplements or corrections to the current Mining Act. But with this timetable that is going on, our goal is to be able to bring the best possible information to the next government board of directors about what should be given attention.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u50	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions about this theme to sign up by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u51	Mr President! At least in Kuusamo and Valkeakoski will measure whether the current law gives the municipality a say in the establishment of the mine. The Greens certainly believe that the municipality should have this say. The Green Group has therefore submitted to Parliament a discussion initiative on the reform of the Mining Act. I would stress the urgency of the reform of the law, since once the trade agreement with Canada has entered into force, the reform of the mining law may well become more difficult. It is important that we have a system in which mining companies are also responsible for compensation for environmental damage, even in cases where the mine goes bankrupt. In other words, in addition to the mining tax, we need mining companies to jointly fund a fund that will be responsible for cleaning up the tracks in the event of bankruptcy if the guarantees are not sufficient. [The President : Question!]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u52	Madam President! Thank you for this position of the Greens and for bringing it forward. We've had this all figured out. It is clear to me that the municipal planning monopoly must be maintained and respected. What happened in the case of Kuusamo, for example, is a more difficult legal situation, and the decision of the administrative court is, of course, the one that will resolve it. The agreement with Canada will not change the situation as long as everyone is treated equally, as Finland has always done. I agree exactly with the questioner about this fund. We have a situation at the moment that these mining companies pay environmental insurance, but this insurance can only be used once the damage has been done. This is kind of the same as car insurance, which means when it's splattered, you can use it. We should transfer this to the fund in order to be proactive — if we see that the company is in a situation where it is no longer able to manage —
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u53	Madam President! Torronsuo National Park, Natura sites, Rompas Ylitoro, Viiankiapa Sodankylä — here are just a few examples of nature reserves where mining companies have taken over, sought ores or are already seeking to start mining. Fortunately, when planning land use in this society, decisions have also been taken at different levels to limit the main natural sites and sites of importance for recreational value to industrial activities, outside construction activities by means of conservation decisions. However, even nature reserves are not safe from mining operations. Minister Tiilikainen, do you and the government think that exploration for ore and mining should be explicitly banned even in nature reserves?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u54	Mr President! The exploration of ore is of the basic nature of our soil, and that certainly does not mean that mining is going to take place in these areas. Quite often, ore exploration is carried out on a very wide scale when you pick up the deposits that are hidden under the earth’s crust, and there may be several hundred ore exploration permits for which there may be one mine. This is a good thing to keep people in mind because it causes concern, that is, whenever a exploration permit is given for a region, the first reaction is whether a mine is coming here. Fortunately, this is not the case. If a search for ore is carried out in the nature reserve, it is very well regulated and it must be ensured that the natural values that are intended to be protected in that nature reserve are not jeopardised by this exploration or research activity. The whole other thing would be that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u55	Madam President! I think the debate on mines is too black and white. Mines are also important for Finnish business and life in general. For example, Talvivaara makes very important metals and minerals available to the battery industry today. In my view, one problem is that nowhere else in the world is there a ‘first-run’ principle, i.e. it will start to weaken the position ofimporters and landowners in the first place. When the world lives on dialogue and debate, I would like to ask Minister Lintilä a question: are you engaged in active negotiations with the mining industry, with the international industry? Would it be possible for them to accept that Finnish society, Finns, needs a greater share of the wealth of our soil?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u57	Madam President! In fact, I am having a debate with colleagues, but not on this subject, because this is in national law. The last thing that has been done with foreign colleagues is the so-called departure certificate, which is where the mining material, the mineral, comes from. For example, with regard to the much-discussed cobalt, I believe that this is very important — with my former colleague in Sweden, we have taken a joint initiative to do this — and I see it as a strength. Whether a cobalt is from Congo or whether it is from Sotkamo is different. The questioner is quite right that we certainly have a clarification of the compensation received by the landowner, and the previous question raised the question of possible taxation. Taxation is one of the questions that I am sure will
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u58	Mr President! Parliament has clearly unanimously required the government to bring the reform of the mining law here for consideration. Among other things, what is at stake here is the environmental risks involved, and it is also a question of how residents, citizens, can influence their own living environment. How, then, is the government going to deal with this issue now, knowing that Parliament has unanimously required this? Among other things, the Social Democrats have argued that the legal formula should be first and then only then should we move forward on these mining issues. What does the government think?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u59	Madam President! Parliament has not unanimously required the introduction of a new mining law into Parliament. The Parliament required the introduction of two sections, 32 and 34, into the Parliament,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u63	The question from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Alliance is asked by Mr Arhinmäki, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u64	Madam President! You, Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo, told us this weekend that you had visited Prisma and had met a pensioner at Prisma's door and he had told you that pensions do not follow a real increase in living costs. This was clear to you, this new matter, when you visited Prisma. The Government has frozen the national pension index affecting pensions, unemployment benefit and sickness allowance throughout the Government's term of office. This has cut the purchasing power of the lowest-incomed. I stayed to think that, when you, Minister Mattila, were in charge of the indices, would you have wished that the Minister of Finance Orpo had visited Prisma a little earlier in the parliamentary term, so that he would have found out that the purchasing power was deteriorating and that he would have put forward a motion for the government to cancel these index freezes, Minister Mattila?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u65	Or is the Minister Orphan who is there? You've been to Prism?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u66	Maybe I'm not going to advertise any more deals I go to right now. But the representative Arhinmäki is a good storyteller.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u69	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u72	Madam President! I answered your written question specifically on the basis of the consumer price indices and the calculation method, how it has been done and how Statistics Finland has prepared them. I understand that in 1997 — and I think this was in that reply — a number of sub-indices have been dropped. However, the Act on the National Pensions Index provides that every four years an assessment of the adequacy of basic security is to be carried out, and this is, I believe, still coming to this term of government, now in 2019, and this is what gives fresh information as to whether this level of benefit of the basic pension is differentiated from the evolution of the general standard of living. So we're about to have some fresh information about this, and I'm sure we can get back to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u73	Mr President! Mr Orpo, the Minister for Finance, spoke about the fairness of the pension system, but I did interpret the Minister of Finance's answer so that, despite the visit to Prisman, you do not feel any remorse about the decisions that have been taken during this parliamentary term, which have indeed frozen the index for the people's pensioners. Today, in the context of the social welfare reform, the most recent report of the Economic Policy Evaluation Council has been discussed, but less attention has been paid to the fact that the Economic Policy Evaluation Council has also criticised the government for its large tax reductions in 2017 and 2018 because they were poorly suited to the cyclical situation. Thus, the coalition will revive tax in times of upturn. In retrospect, Minister of Finance Orpo, would it have been fairer to use at least part of this economic policy margin to eliminate these index freezes that you could have taken care of?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u74	Madam President! It was a good thing that this report from the evaluation council came up, and I can then say from there the fine points where they applaud the fact that the government has achieved the key objectives of economic policy and employment policy, which means that Finland is more well-being, the ability to take care of the pension system, the ability to provide services. 120,000 people have been helped out of unemployment. Great, fine conclusions from the evaluation council. You have to be happy with them. We also know that income inequality has not increased in Finland as a result of government policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u77	Swedish Parliament Group, represented by Nylander.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u78	Mr President! Today, Kauppalehti had an article on R & D in Finland, and it also describes how far we are from this common goal that R & D spending is roughly 4% of GDP. But this article also criticises this short-term policy, if that is what the government has done. In other words, when we talk about R & D, the authors feel that there has been a lack of such long-term and comprehensiveness.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u79	Madam President! This report by Professor Ormala, which he made at my request, was, of course, something to be considered very seriously. The criticism came to a large extent from the fact that this has been squirming, throughout this decade, and from the fact that the funding has been pro-cyclical and that we need to separate ourselves. The most worrying thing I think was that we are currently running out of money. So the companies are investing out on the RD side. What is positive and which was also highlighted in the report is that it has now been translated upwards. So this descent has been severed and in 17 C.E. it was already turned upwards. This is definitely something that must be going beyond the rule periods. And the fact that the government, the Prime Minister,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u80	Mr President! It is, of course, good that the government now also thinks that it is a long-term work that is being done — and that is what is being done. This, if anything, is comprehensive and long-term. But I'm sure a lot of people would be interested in this kind of road map. How, at what point will we reach this 4% of GDP?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u81	Mr President! A road map of this kind is on its way and is being prepared. And in this year’s budget — thanks to this good economic, employment development — the government was able to increase the Finnish research and innovation budget by 112 million permanently, which also brings credibility to this four per cent common target by 2030. It is quite clear that Finland will only succeed by investing in knowledge, education and research in the coming times. That has been our strategy up to now, and we are good at this. The latest state of science shows that in Finland, despite difficult years, our level of science and international impact have even improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u82	Mr President! This is a very important issue, and the government is committed to the road map and vision drawn up by the Scientific and Innovation Council, which will raise product development expenditure to 4% by 2030, and this turn has now been brought about, as Mr Grahn-Laasonen said. Private sector investments in product development have increased by around EUR 100 million from 2015 to 2018, public sector investments have also increased by around EUR 40 million and the higher education sector by around EUR 90 million. So all this public debate may not be able to get this picture, but that turn has taken place, and we are heading towards that four per cent important target, and that is where this government will work and hopefully the next governments.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u83	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u84	Mr President! The new alcohol law has been in force for about a year, and the experiences of the new law are profitably positive. As a result of the Act, business activity has been greatly stimulated and tax revenues have increased as consumption has been driven from Estonian passenger imports to domestic distribution channels. The structure of consumption has also changed as strong drinks in domestic stores have lost shares in wines and beer and other mild products. Similarly, the threats associated with the reform have not materialised, and it seems that responsible Finns have surprised at least some of us in the decision-making process. There is no significant increase in total consumption and, for example, there has been no greater increase in the number of disturbances in order. In other words, the objective set by the law of moderate and responsible reduction of alcohol regulation has been realised. This is what happens when we trust the Finns. Nevertheless, Mr President, although the reform of the law as a whole can be welcomed, there are a number of details in which the new alcohol law needs to be improved, and this is the background to the submission of this bill. In practice, this bill is about the situation of special shops focusing on quality and rarer small brewery beers. Even within the framework of the new law, they have fallen into the position of a faller. A well-known example is the Pien beer store, which ended in Iso Omena, Espoo, which had to close its doors at the turn of the year due to the requirement for the share of food sales. When the reform of the Alcohol Act was being prepared, a minor but significant change for the operators was that it was no longer considered necessary to consider the sale of the apparent food kiosk as a condition for the sale out of manufacturing sites. The requirement for small manufacturers to buy out was rightly considered to be an unnecessary additional regulation, for which there was no justification either for the purpose of the law or for practical reasons. This was a requirement against common sense which would only hinder activities which had no demonstrable adverse effects on public health or public order. In exactly the same way, the requirement of food sales or their proportion is unnecessary. Mr President! This bill also seeks to extend the same principle to special beer trades. The criteria are similar. Regulating specialised beer stores out of the market does not reduce overall consumption or strengthen public order or safety. Speciality stores do not sell low-cost mass products that are crucial to overall consumption, nor can they compete with economies of scale in large retail chains. The only competitive advantage of a small-scale speciality shop is to focus on quality and specialities and expertise and individual service. This is needed more in Finland than it is now, not less. At this stage, I would like to thank the other ten representatives who have supported this initiative. It is good to note that in almost every party there were leaders who considered this important.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u85	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u86	Madam President! Thank you to the first signatory of the bill, Mrs Wallinheim, and to the other signatories. I can support this bill myself. Of course, realistically it can be said that perhaps during this parliamentary term and in this Parliament this will no longer become a law, but I hope that this will now give rise to the Ministry's preparatory machinery to put an end to such a small absurdity with regard to the new alcoholic, or this inappropriateness, let us put it this way. To Mrs Wallinheim, I can tell you that my name would have been given to you when you asked,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u89	Madam President! This initiative before us is extremely good, and I too am a little surprised that only a few signatures have been requested from the various parliamentary groups. As Mr Kurvinen said, I too could have signed this. Indeed, there is a lack of reasoning in the alcohol law. The sales of alcoholic beverages must be marketed in a diverse range of daily supplies and the share of sales of alcoholic beverages must not be significantly higher than that of other foodstuffs. One of the victims of regulation is this one in the Big Espoo. An apple - specialized beer store, which then had to stop trying to sell rye bread on the side of special beers. I can’t help but think of the times that Mr Kurvin already mentioned when he was allowed to indulge in alcohol in restaurants only with food, and that could in practice mean a sandwich. Today’s law reflects the old world and thinking, and it should be changed in accordance with the initiative. The current Alcohol Act treats soft alcohols, such as beers, as special shops — even from the beginning, it is not necessary to carry a holebread on the side of the Lion bottle. Nor does the current law in any way protect against harmful use of alcohol. At its worst, it even hinders the adoption of a more rational drinking culture when, instead of tasting special beers, citizens are driven to buy bulk beer from supermarkets. With these words, I agree with this and support this initiative to get this right.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u90	Mr President! This bill highlights an interesting gap in our reformed Alcohol Act. Once again, new details are revealed in the rule-of-rule Finland, the effects of which, interpreted by enthusiastic officials, we will then be able to read in the tabloids. It is quite incomprehensible how such a matter has remained in the alcohol law. If someone were to justify it, even if it were to endanger Alko’s monopoly somehow, I could not see such an effect by allowing small businesses to sell specialised beer alongside large traders. I'm sure those big shops are more like Alko's monopoly. I think this is a good example of the detail to be corrected, and I would like to have signed the bill myself on request. Now, by the way, I am simply expressing my support for this initiative and I hope that, in practice, this will end up on the list when the next Parliament and the government start to reflect on these alcohol law issues. I suspect that there will also be peer support for this issue among other shortcomings.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u91	Madam President! As the previous representatives have said, I too would have liked to have signed this bill, and I will then sign it so orally afterwards. For decades now, there has been no need to wear a jacket and tie in restaurants from the coat and have not had to take the sandwich mentioned here, which was not necessarily healthy either. Beer special shops are really important, as many people do beer, special beers, or want to try them out. That's where the expertise comes in. Just as Alko tells us which wine is suitable for what food, these small shops also provide advice on which beer is suitable for what food. And I don't see anything bad, even though those wines are traded for beers at the table, let's try them as long as we don't go to the schnapps — as in some countries it's customary to have schnapps with food — so I prefer it to be a bottle of beer rather than a bottle of beer. I've wanted to taste them myself, and now it's a good thing that there have been special beers in those supermarkets too, but that range may not be so great and there's no expertise there, people who would tell you what it is, and then they'll buy a beer that doesn't fit in their own mouths, so I'd like to have these little shops, even the stone-foot shops, where they'd have the expertise. However, we are killing such small entrepreneurs with such food runs. And it must be pointed out that these small pebbles do not sell that beer wholesale in any way so that the boxes are carried there, like the supermarkets, that is, this does not add to any alcohol consumption.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u92	Irade the Talman! Of course, alcohol consumption is a problem in Finland and there is room for improvement in our alcohol culture. It is equally undeniable, of course, that Finland as a country is not doomed to be faced with the same problem forever, but that it can be corrected, and that is corrected by the cultivation of a good alcohol culture. And small breweries are an indication of the fact that the wine on the farm is an indication of it, and such small movements, as an example of this bill, are an example of a good alcohol culture. And when it occurs, it must be possible, supported, and not made impossible by law to do such a good, sensible thing. This is a good bill. Representative Wallinheimo has done a good job of finding the problem and immediately starting to correct it, and it was a pleasure to be one of the signatories to the bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u93	Madam President! At the end of this debate, I would also like to say that this development of the beer culture and brewery products will, and may, play an even greater role in the future in what has been discussed a great deal during this parliamentary term, in other words, the future of Finnish agriculture. Yes, it is one way to survive this transformation for malt barley farmers and grain farmers. However, such special beer, domestic small brewery beer, is quite a high-processing product. Of course, the healthiest thing is to drink clean cranberry water or vichyve, but if you happen to use beer, I recommend to colleagues that we then use these slightly more valuable, good domestic small brewery beers. Perhaps I will say that again to Mr Lehto, who has made an excellent speech, and I quite agree that perhaps now we have a little bit of a time before that little coat and tie start coming on more and more often when we go to the pub, and it is not just so that we can get sweaty up until the morning, but that we can be elegantly dressed, enjoying — the food and beer are very good together, and it is a healthy alcohol culture in Finland as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u94	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u95	Madam President! Today's legislative initiative on the amendment of Article 26 of the Private Security Services Act is necessary. When the law on private security services was enacted, it was recorded that the law allows the appointment of law enforcement officers at the offices of the university of applied sciences and the university of applied sciences law. It may well be that when this law was enacted, secondary schools, upper secondary schools and vocational institutions, which should also be able to have a guardian of order, were neglected. Everyone will remember the unfortunate and sad school shootings that took place in Finland, especially in secondary schools. A total of 20 people were killed. According to the legislation of the Education Department, the student is entitled to a safe learning environment. The safety of students and school staff should be guaranteed in all situations. Security is a factor for which sufficient resources must be available. The presence of an orderly overseer enables early intervention, which is conducive to increased security. The operating environment of the Finnish police has changed faster than ever. New, unpredictable threats have come to light. The threats must be taken into account by preparing for them and by trying to prevent them from arising. It is good to address these problems as early as possible, when they will not become more serious. Unfortunately, some of the new threats are directed at educational institutions, students and staff. Preparing for them is very challenging because Finnish educational institutions are traditionally open and there is little restriction on mobility. The risk assessment shall take into account that risks to individuals may come from inside or outside the educational institution. They may target either students or staff of the educational institution or both. Risks from inside the school may be caused by students or staff. Risks coming from outside may be caused by former students or staff or parents of students or completely external persons. The risks are therefore the free movement of the above-mentioned persons in the school building and also the ease of damage caused by the transparency of the premises. A lack of control creates the conditions under which damage or even crime is possible. Order overseers can prevent vandalism, theft and violence at school and in its territory. At best, they increase the mental and physical security of students and staff. There may be organisational problems and, as I know, there has been an incident at the offices of upper secondary schools, especially vocational institutions. As a result, the law needs to be specified and updated to meet current needs in order to increase safety, including in the establishments of upper secondary schools and vocational institutions. We have to act before something terrible happens again. That is why it is necessary to complete this law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u96	Mr President! There is now a bill signed here by Mr Raatikainen and a number of other colleagues concerning the amendment of Article 26 of the Private Security Services Act, and this is a question of which educational establishments can be set up within the institution. When I personally saw that such a bill has been signed and initiated here in Parliament, I was so surprised that it might seem funny that it could really be in a way that universities, universities of science and universities of applied sciences can set up law enforcement officers, but then the law does not offer that possibility for upper secondary schools and vocational institutions, for second grade. Indeed, it seemed a little that this was an inadvertent omission, as the first signatory of the initiative, Mr Raatikainen, said, a bit like a legislative bug. I am in favour of this bill. This is very good. Of course, this would be such a change in scale and size that one might think that this could still be achieved in Parliament, but of course, knowing the working situation of the committees, this too goes to the point that the future Parliament and the future government, hopefully, will also remove this disadvantage from our society. Mr President! It is truly shocking and tragic that violence has taken place in schools in Finland, and when you read the news from the world, it seems that internationally, too, when a person really gets sick and real evil manifests itself, there seems to be a desire to target it in schools. We also need to be prepared for such lone wolves to be on the move. Dangerous situations can also occur within the school in certain situations. My constituency is a great example of this a short time ago. Attempted homicide, in the background of the termination of the relationship, took place in Vaasa on the premises of a vocational school. Of course, a case like this that comes into its own backyard, its own area, always wonders if it could have been better prepared, and what if this perpetrator had targeted violence not only on his ex-husband but also on people outside. President! However, I think it is important that schools remain open to us. Personally, I do not believe that the addition of so-called tougher tools and more metal detectors will make schools safe, but those nuclear means are elsewhere, but this tool must also be used to safeguard our schools, and this amendment of the law should be made. President! Of course, there is always a debate about what tasks we have to ensure security and what tasks we could delegate to others. After all, we have very competent and good security guards and private security operators today, fortunately. One such question of eternity is whether it is the responsibility of the police to carry intoxicated persons. Certainly not in most cases, but then we also know that when the head is full, there can also be aggressive and dangerous behavior. President! However, the most important thing in the future is that we get the number of police officers at a reasonable level in Finland. The police are the primary guarantor of security and these vigilantes and guards are the secondary. We need one of those 650 more cops. 7850 policemen would be more or less the number that would bring us even to a reasonable level in Finland, and at least the ‘sports association’ that I represent will continue to work for in the future and other groups will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u97	Madam President! The bill is a very good one, and I have signed it. This is really necessary to bring security to high school and vocational schools. It is very sad that it has come to this that it has to be done. It would be better if there were no need for guards, but now it seems that they do need to be. But when you think that the presence of that vigilante is already preventative, and now that we have read a lot about how much drug trafficking is taking place in and around school, should you think that there should be an increase in the number of primary schools, secondary schools, where a lot of drug trafficking is taking place, and drug dealers are trying to provide drug samples and then sell them? It is equally important that primary schools, upper secondary schools and vocational schools, even tertiary schools, everywhere, should be able to get that drug trafficking out of place. It's a big part of this, and it also causes violence. So we need this amendment of the law as a matter of urgency, but then we should also consider why we have come to this. Why do we need guards in schools in Finland today? I think we should think about it more.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u98	Mr President! Disorders and even acts of violence have increased in many places in schools and educational institutions. There is, however, a need to address this issue and also to influence it by means of legislative measures. This bill, drawn up by Mr Raatikainen, and signed by several Finns, intervenes by allowing private law enforcement in vocational schools and upper secondary schools, and this is therefore a very welcome initiative. More generally, it is very important for schools and educational institutions to maintain peace in schools and, for example, for bullying and all forms of harassment to be subject to zero tolerance. The Finns have already made numerous legal initiatives in this regard. I would also like to draw attention to the view we have expressed in our alternative budget that mental health problems should be tackled as early as possible and, for example, that young people with mental health problems should be helped through organisational activities. This is likely to significantly reduce the problems in the various educational institutions. Mr President! Schools and educational institutions are currently fully engaged in the running of education and other core activities, and there is not always enough time for bullying, violence or disorder to be tackled thoroughly and effectively, even though the municipalities have tried to work and reduce various distractions at an early stage. Of course, these school shootings and attempted homicides mentioned in the debate are among the most brutal events, but Mrs Lehto also rightly raised the issue of drug trafficking. These too should be seriously addressed. There is a need for a wide range of measures and much progress would be made with more efficient law enforcement. This bill on the possibility for law enforcement to set up secondary schools is very much to be welcomed, and I myself have also signed this bill. I therefore wish it a speedy and successful committee reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u99	Mr President! This bill by Mr Raatikainen aims to improve safety also in upper secondary schools and vocational schools. Disorders also occur in secondary schools. I'm afraid that's today. Safety has been raised in many ways recently, especially in the case of children and young people. Earlier shocking events, such as school shootings, are also possible today — unfortunately. All measures to safeguard staff and pupils must also be taken seriously in schools. Representative Savio also raised the issue of bullying at school. It happens a lot. Of course, we must try to prevent these extremely violent events. In bullying at school, the inclusion of a school peace agent in all municipalities is a performance of the Finns, and it should also be seriously considered. I have signed this good bill by Mr Raatikainen, just like so many other Finns. I wish this bill could go through. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u100	Mr President! As has already been mentioned in the debate, this bill, which is to be supported and signed by myself, would make up a very special gap in legislation. One must wonder how such a peculiarity could have remained in the law and whether this would now mean that a professional school would commit illegality while hiring a guard. I hope this is not the case, but there is obviously one law that needs to be clarified here. I also support the idea raised earlier by Mr Lehdo of extending the possibility of guarding to secondary school, for precisely the reasons mentioned in connection with the prevention of drug trafficking.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u101	Madam President! This is an important issue, and it is a good initiative — it is borne out, among other things, by the fact that I have signed it myself. As chairman of the committee, I shall try to ensure that this is still possible during this parliamentary term, as was hoped, in the committee, so that the necessary correction can be made. Of course, as I have said before, it would always be easier in committee to justify the urgency of the matter — not just what is the text in that initiative — even if it had as many names as possible. Now there are 17 names. It would be easier to... I believe that, as was heard, Mr Kurvinen was in favour of this and could have put a name on it. But indeed, as I said, there is a need for a change in the law and the necessary corrections are needed. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u102	Madam President! I do not know whether it was Mrs Lehto or who suggested that at least primary schools or upper-school schools could also become law enforcement officers, and I do not reject this idea. These particular problems can also be present there. For some three years, Mr Eerola and I have been working well together in the Administrative Committee, Mr Eerola as chairman, and that is where this comes before our eyes. Of course, Parliament has certain rules of the game, and it is a bit of a shame that there are no more signatories here. That does not diminish the significance of this, but it is just that it may not take precedence over initiatives with more than dozens of signatures. President! The root causes or reasons why such initiatives are being taken are not so great here, but this previous debate may have overlooked some of the fact that we should, of course, discuss how this has come about, that the risks in schools are that way. I myself used to talk about these external risks, and then, of course, unfortunately, violence and criminal activity are also among students and students. This has been the subject of discussion here in the Chamber before, but I am renewing it now that all we have to do is take a boat or a plane and go to Iceland to see what has been done there. Iceland had a great deal of nausea among young people: problems with young people, drug abuse, loneliness, bullying and the like. Now, in a few years, a decade, it has been possible to reverse that development, and there will be some very clear lessons in Finland, from which it is easy for everyone in common to understand that they work: It is good that the child and the young person have a hobby, especially for a young man of a slump, such as a team game, exercise, patrol, fire brigade youth or a similar community hobby. Children of slightly less well-off families should also be helped even if they are supported by society. And it is important that the cooperation between parents and schools works and that parents know where children and young people go. And I must admit, President, that as a youth politician I too have sometimes been a little critical of such young people's curfews in one city or province, but perhaps with age it will become more conservative and perhaps these common curfews and rules of play should only be introduced because: In Iceland, they have come to such good results.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-24-ps-147.u103	Madam President! I am pleased to say to Mr Kurvise that just yesterday we arrived from Iceland with the chairman of the Administrative Committee and there was some talk about education and these security issues. Point taken. This, which is why I have made this presentation, is because that school world became contacts with me. Among other things, there have been situations where different student groups have started fighting each other in the middle of school day. There was a lot of talk just now about threats from outside, and so on, but there have been situations like this. At the moment, I believe that it is not possible to hire guards, because there are no secondary schools specifically mentioned in this law. At least it would facilitate and clarify the picture if these secondary schools were mentioned. I'll be brief here.
