ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-25-ps-148.u1	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 23 January 2019. In the debate, Lauri Ihalainen, supported by Hanna Sarkkinen, has made three statements under protest 1 and Jani Mäkelä, supported by Ritva Elomaa, has made a statement under protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-25-ps-148.u2	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the proposals made in the debate, that is to say to vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-25-ps-148.u3	The 11th item in the order of business will be presented for a partial, partial second reading. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Defence, PuVM 2/2018 vp, it will be decided on the basis of a single reading of the agreement and then on the legislative proposals at second reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-25-ps-148.u4	The 13th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-25-ps-148.u5	Mr President! Since I was unable to present the report at first reading, just briefly. It is therefore a question of protecting children in maritime work and fishing vessels, and an international agreement through which this will also come to Finland. In this legislative proposal, the committee changed the concept of compulsory education. This law was binding on 16 years of age and on compulsory schooling, as it were, the right to work on a fishing vessel, but we still have people in this country whose compulsory education age is not so clear, in which case it is about the end of compulsory schooling. At the same time, however, we wanted to take a position in the report that, when fishing is an industry where it is often passed from one generation to another in the family, it would be important for children also to be able to fish under the age of 16 when it comes to the parent's ship and, as it were, to train, but to ensure that they are not in a job relationship and not, as it were, subject to the obligations of the worker. That is what we drew attention to in the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-25-ps-148.u6	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-25-ps-148.u7	Madam President! Here is the amendment to the Tobacco Act, and I myself thought I should say a few thoughts on what other amendments to the Tobacco Act should be made by the next government. During the time of this Parliament, we managed to enact a law restricting balcony smoking, i.e. according to the current law, the housing company can apply to the municipality for a decision that the balconies of the housing company from which smoke can pass to other balconies or other apartments can ban smoking by decision of the municipality. This current procedure, although very recently laid down, is highly bureaucratic. First of all, the housing company requires a general meeting before which the presentation of this case must be brought to the attention of all shareholders and also tenants living in the house. After that, a thick bunch of papers must be delivered to the municipality, apparently a house layout and various other studies on this, and then perhaps the municipal authority will visit there, but in any case some bureaucrat will think about it and will apparently say that there are some papers missing. After that, more papers will be delivered, and then he will make that decision. The law therefore requires a ban if these conditions are met. Madam President! On top of all this, the housing company must still pay the authorities, the municipality, for their merciful handling of this application. Indeed, I hope — and I almost dare to say that I do — that my party will be in the next government, provided that the next government acts in such a way that the housing company itself decides whether or not to smoke in the balconies of its homeowners. The second possibility would of course be to provide directly under the law that balconies should not be allowed to smoke, but I think that this own decision by the housing company is the appropriate next step, which should be taken. Well, when the tobacco law is hopefully being amended, then another important factor would be the removal of brand names from tobacco boxes. It is already the case in some countries that cigarette brands cannot be sold on their brands; packs are entirely white. For example, the only thing they have is horrifying pictures of what smoking can lead to for a person. That is the kind of reform I hope for in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-25-ps-148.u8	Madam President! This is therefore a question of traceability of retail packaging of tobacco products. This is EU regulation and its implementation in Finland, and tobacco retail packaging will then be equipped with unique identifiers to trace the products, and this should also be given by someone designated by Finland. This reform is a good and welcome one. We have some smuggling and, of course, when the situation gets tighter, this type of imports will also increase. It is important that traceability works. My representative, Ben Zyskowicz, went through well what has been done this season. In my opinion, it is more important to smoke balconies when children are travelling in cars that smoking has now been limited so that when there are underage children in the car, smoking is prohibited there. At some point, it seemed that our constitutional experts would also have prevented it: it is a fundamental right of every human being to be able to destroy the child’s lungs even during the car journey. Fortunately, however, this legislation has now been put into effect. Mr President! We need more action to tackle the harmful effects of smoking, above all by protecting us and those who do not smoke, and especially children who are unable to influence it themselves. But it is also right that we should have measures to ensure that new young people or future adults do not start smoking at all. This is something that has recently been taken up by Mr Zyskowicz. But one thing I am exceptionally concerned about is that, at the same time as smoking decreases, the use of snuff in Finland is becoming more common. This week, too, we have had news of a fairly open snuff shop in the social media and in the drugstores and elsewhere. At the moment, our police resources are not enough, even if there are reports that action will be taken. This is a big problem, and I hope there will be more stakes in this. I was particularly concerned when I received a message from one of the mothers who told me that their children and their friends have started using used snoops, which can be found in trash cans, on the street, and also in sports hall lockers, where the use of snoop is quite common. The children pick up these used snoops and then get something from them, I guess, not a breath, but something in that direction. More needs to be done to ensure that we are able to protect children against this abuse. This is a good proposal and will therefore increase the traceability of tobacco products.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-25-ps-148.u9	Madam President! Indeed, tobacco policy, both during this parliamentary term and over several decades, has had a significant impact on public health, and I think it is a very good example of how Parliament's decisions, both fiscal decisions and legislation, have produced results. Smoking has decreased and the popularity of smoking among young people, for example, has decreased. So progress has really been encouraging. Well, this bill we are talking about today is unlikely to have a very big impact on the amount of smoking in Finland, but it also has its place. It is this improvement in traceability that constrains smuggling. It will be better able to catch up with smuggling, and in this way it will support precisely these tax-raising measures. Both the availability of tobacco, price policy, advertising and tobacco restrictions have indeed produced results, and for their part this European Union regulation-based traceability legislation is supporting this policy. Here Mr Zyskowicz raised the issue of balcony smoking, and I share this concern with him. In other words, we still have these things that Parliament and the government still have to put on the table. I am sure that this will be among the next government's measures, and I hope that all parties will take up this important issue. Personally, I believe that we can still afford to have an impact on this tobacco pack and to restrict smoking, especially among young people, and now that we will have a means to improve this traceability and at the same time reduce the opportunities for smuggling,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-25-ps-148.u10	Madam President! This government proposal is precisely aimed at curbing illicit trade in tobacco products, and in this respect it is certainly a good one and a positive one. In the longer term, when legislation regulates smoking, it can be seen that, in general, those who have opposed the changes to be made will, over time, be in favour of them. Everyone can certainly find people in their circle who, before the restaurant smoking was banned, were strongly against the ban, but when it has been in force in Finland for a long time now, people are more satisfied that they don't sting their eyes after the restaurant night, not to mention the workers who are then exposed to this passive smoking throughout their shift if they smoke in restaurants and public places. In this sense, Finland too has gone in a good direction, and this development should not be feared. Of course, some people are saying that this is an act of terrorism against smokers, but it must also be borne in mind that if tobacco products today were to apply for public trade and market entry, tobacco products would by no means be acceptable for health reasons. We have a lot of other products which, with lower criteria, are on lists that are unacceptable to the market, but tobacco is, of course, for historical reasons in this situation. Thus, of course, smoking cannot be completely banned, and it would lead to smuggling and the use of many other products. There was also reference to this snoop issue. Unfortunately, it is a trend towards an increase among young people. What can be done about this is another matter. However, tobacco is very often also a gateway to other intoxicating substances, such as drugs. In this respect, this work by society on tobacco control certainly has a very good basis for the longer term, and it must also be continued by the future Parliament. I also hope that the centre will be in the next government, whoever is there, to continue this work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-25-ps-148.u11	Thank you. It is late, but I will be able to give two more speeches, and then we will stop. — Mr Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-25-ps-148.u12	Madam President! Here previous speakers have expressed the wish that they should be in the government. On behalf of the Finns, I, too, am presenting the motion: I hope that we too are in the government. [Markku Ross’ interlude] Madam President! This is the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and as a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I would like to say a few words about this. This is a good show. The government proposal relates to the European Union system for traceability and safety features of retail packaging of tobacco products. The proposed amendments will implement the Commission's regulation on the safety features of retail packaging of tobacco products. The amendments also allow for the adoption of regulation at the level of the regulation required for the implementation of the Commission's decision on security features, i.e., in plain language, this EU regulation aims to prevent the smuggling of tobacco products and illegal trade, which will result in considerable financial losses for Member States, as there will then be no income through customs duties and VAT and excise duties. In addition, tobacco products sold duty-free are particularly attractive to people with little money at their disposal, as is the case with children and the most economically disadvantaged. In this way, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health felt that this proposed regulation could significantly prevent the illicit trade in tobacco products and the smuggling of tobacco products, and indeed we all have to work together to do so. There was mention of snuff, and I would like to say a few words about it. Prevention is very important. I myself am from Uusimaa, Espoo, and we too have raised this issue, both snuff and drugs. On the core issue, there is also the fact that municipalities — perhaps provinces in the future — are allocating resources to substance abuse workers, so that we also know what is happening among young people, and in that way we will be able to tackle these various phenomena as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-25-ps-148.u13	Mr President! I have already spoken about this at the last reading. This is a good law that will be able to substantially combat tobacco smuggling, which is a big issue, as Mrs Juvonen has just said: a large number of cigarettes have been smuggled worldwide. This can be used to combat it. This system, which we have in our EU package, can also prevent the tobacco industry from getting involved in this. I asked for the floor, in fact, because Mrs Zyskowicz raised a few very important points: balcony smoking and then the idea of getting into these unmarked packages, plain packaging, as has been done in more and more countries. It is hoped that the next reform of the Tobacco Act will allow this to happen. Mr Zyskowicz also referred to the control of tobacco sales. It's very important. There is a question of control fees, and this issue will come to this Parliament in connection with the so-called Creative package.
