ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. At the same time, I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the Minister to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u2	Congressman Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u3	Mr President! The state of freedom of expression in Finland is worrying. An opinion that does no harm to anyone can bring an unreasonable judgment to the courtroom. It is completely intolerable that people no longer know when they may break the law. [Department :Actually! ] We Finns do not accept threats or defamation. However, they are already banned in the Criminal Code. What is the government actually going to change? Are you now going to deny the criticisms of those in power?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u4	Mr President! It's a very important subject. We have freedom of expression in this good country, and we have legislation that also tells us what is permitted and what is not allowed. Unfortunately, there has been more hate speech in recent years in social media, for example. It is not just a Finnish phenomenon, it is occurring throughout Europe. That is why the meetings of the European Ministers of Justice also discuss what can be done about this. Archbishop Mäkinen led the hate crime task force in Finland — last year and spring a report came — and this hate crime group led by Archbishop Mäkinen concluded that this goaling should somehow be curbed. It's the way I see it. It's the way I see it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u5	Now I would ask those of you who wish to ask supplementary questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u6	Mr President! The Minister spoke of hate speech. However, there is no hate speech in the Criminal Code. It is not a punishable act. It is a very arbitrary concept. Often the crime title is in practice incitement against the people’s group. Now, however, even the views of the police and the prosecutor on what this crime title means differ. There is no way for a citizen to know what he is allowed to say and what he is not allowed to say in such a situation. A law as vague as this has completely failed. Fortunately, the Finns have today submitted a bill in which we call for this law to be clarified. We propose that it would be clear that only threats of crime or incitement to crime would be punishable. Sharing opinions, or even facts, could no longer be a crime. Minister, can you support such a bill for the freedom of opinion of all Finns and residents of Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u7	Mr President! I'm going to take a look at this bill of yours. I assume that you have also examined the guidelines of the European Court of Human Rights when you think about it. In its case law, the European Court of Human Rights has held that political speech must not be restricted without compelling reasons, but hate speech which may offend individuals or groups of persons does not deserve the protection of freedom of expression. We too in Finland must insist that we follow the European Court of Human Rights' guidelines.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u8	Mr President! Instigation against the people is found in the chapter of the Penal Code entitled “War Crimes and Crimes Against Humanity”. This is quite a strong characterisation of the fact that a citizen says ugly things about a sensitive minority in social media.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u9	Mr President! I sincerely believe that Mrs Halla-aho also knows that we have freedom of expression in this country. We still have the same legislation, which was already in force when Jari Lindström was Minister of Justice of the Finns Party. I do not remember that these questions were raised once in this Chamber at that time. It's a good thing to remember.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u13	Mr President! During the last term, the coalition was most profiled in restricting freedom of expression. The hate speech group set up by President Orpo and later the hate speech campaign promoted by Minister Häkkänen through the Ministry of Justice showed in a frightening way how the public authorities can start not only legislative but also tax-funded campaigns that threaten citizens in a vague way. The key message of Minister Häkkänen's campaign was: hate speech can be punishable. Such campaigns and nuclear communications leave the public confused. I would like to ask you, Minister of Justice Henriksson: in addition to these legislative measures, which restrict freedom of expression, are you also going to launch campaigns of this kind last season, which give vague messages to the public about hate speech?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u14	Mr President! I believe that everyone in this country would be better off if there were less hate speech and more talk about which people are well. I also believe that in a country where there is not so much hate speech, it is better and that everyone will feel better about it. I would like all the politicians in this Chamber to think about how we can turn this debate into something good. I guess the point is not to think about the very ways in which one person is most hurt. [On the left: Just like this! — Sebastian Tynkkysen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u17	Mr President! Freedom of expression is the fundamental values of our Finnish and our Western democracy, and at the same time we all have a responsibility to how we use this freedom. Freedom of speech, at least according to my own thinking, will then be misused or used in a questionable way if it is deliberately used to offend another person or, at worst, to violate or question the dignity of another person or group of people. I woke up a while ago when I received a message from a high school girl telling me her opinion on something that was much in the political debate. He said in it that he dared not write this on his public Facebook wall on social media because he fears the angry and ugly and even threatening feedback slide from it. And so I think that freedom of expression must also belong to those who do not feel extreme about something or do not make a very loud noise, or who feel that they do not have such a barrier that they are able to accept such a hate storm and feedback. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u20	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, for this very good speech. That is exactly how we should think about how we can do things, how we politicians and we in this Chamber can contribute to the fact that everyone in this country can do well and dare to say their own opinion, but also dares to go into discussions without the fear of being targeted. This is something we should discuss. In my opinion, we are in a very serious situation when our prosecutors, our police officers and our judges tell us that there will also be such attacks on them, which are aimed at making them act in a way that does not go forward. That is what we should be dealing with, and the government wants to intervene, and that is why we are doing a lot of work in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u21	Mr President! I must say, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, that is a wonderful speech. I get a lot of e-mails from people too, and very often those emails say that you do not tell my story from the outside, I fear the reactions. This is something that we must be able to eradicate from Finnish society: democracy, an equal society, a just society, no one should be afraid of using the word-and-words correctly — not against other people, but by telling them what they are — as the Finns are also called for. And I really hope that, both in this Chamber and outside this Chamber, we people who decide what to do here will make sure that our political culture will be such in the future that people will be respected and respected — not barked up, not messed up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u22	Mr President! I agree with the Prime Minister and the Minister for Justice on these objectives and the culture discussed: respect for people and not intentionally offend anyone. I would ask you, Minister of Justice: do you think that this current legislation restricting freedom of religion and freedom of expression, such as the law of incitement to the people, is sufficiently clear to enable the citizen to know these limits of the law? And if, after a thorough assessment, the police come to a different conclusion from that of the Prosecutor General, the question arises as to how the ordinary citizen might know where those limits go. So do you see the need to clarify this legislation?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u23	Mr President! Of course, it is the case that I cannot comment on individual cases, but it is also, of course, in a way that we have a court of law which interprets the legislation in force. That is why so far we have not seen such a need. Now, of course, we need to follow the case law and we also need to see what kind of judgments will or will not come and then see if there is such a need. I myself have come from the fact that we now have legislation, and the Court of Justice, in its own application, will take a position as to whether or not an act fulfils the hallmark of that crime. Here we have a clear division of labour: the legislative power belongs to Parliament, the jurisdiction belongs to the courts.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u24	Mr President! It is one thing to demand good behaviour from people in social media or elsewhere in relation to ordinary citizens, but it is another thing to talk about hate speech and target here. The decision-makers should be able to stand up to criticism. [Base Finns Group : Yes! ] The use of hate speech as a political force has accelerated to unprecedented proportions, and this is particularly true of the debate on immigration. We constantly hear our hate speech only by telling clear and verified facts: the cost of statistics in euros, police and courts information, news from schools, streets, Kela. So we are angry when we tell and compare values and prices, demand security and demand prioritising.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u25	Mr President! The fundamental objective of this government is to eradicate inequality in Finnish society: inequality from the point of view of income, inequality from the point of view of various services, a more even distribution of social and health services among people at regional level and among population groups. They are absolutely central to this government. Through this action, we aim to ensure that every Finn feels fully involved in Finnish society and can experience security, can experience participation in a positive way. The aim of this government is not to impose any population group or any direction of opinion in any way. I disagree with you on the lines of your immigration policy. I disagree with that, but that does not mean that I do not appreciate your views on this matter. It is also necessary to listen on this side to the fact that why do we disagree on these matters? And I certainly hope that we will be able to do so in this Chamber as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u28	Mr President! We talk a lot about bullying in this room. We have all been concerned about how we could reduce bullying in this country. Perhaps even when these debates take place, one can wonder whether we are now taking forward a country in which one is not tempted, in which everyone is allowed to be as they are, regardless of their own opinion or their sexual orientation or ethnic background. Yes, we are in a pretty serious place where the police in this country, our lawyers, our judges appeal to Parliament and the government to do something about the goal, because at the moment the rule of law is already in danger of continuing to do more of this goal. This is not the view of the government; this is the view of the police, lawyers and judges in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u29	Thank you, Mr Kari, for this question. This matter is now moving forward so that, together with the Minister for Justice and the Minister for the Interior, we are thinking about measures that are more effective than today in terms of systematic harassment, intimidation and targeting. We also have a ministerial working group, which I myself am working on, and that working group is also going to review this whole issue now. I myself have suggested that one way of doing this could also be that, for example, an illegal threat would be a criminal offence under official charge, which would also mean that the police, the judge or the prosecutor, who would be subjected to such targeting, would not have to prosecute himself, but would have to be handled by the public prosecutor. That would be one way, but this is now under investigation, and the government will intervene in this matter. It is not good that our democracy
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u31	Also Minister of Transport and Communications Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u32	Mr President! It is very important that there is a serious debate in this Chamber about hate speech, about the target, about the way this affects freedom of expression. We know that there are also cases where journalists, media representatives, have been systematically targeted, tried to silence, and this, if anyone, narrows down the freedom of expression, narrows down the fundamental pillars of this society, the foundations within which democracy is also very strongly built. For my part, I would also like to send a serious message and concern to every one of us in this Chamber that we ensure that there is respect for another person in this country, that there is no attempt to silence the points of paint, hate speech, any kind of campaign, that we value each other's opinions and that we also ensure that journalists and the media have peace of work and that we do not, at least by our own actions, feed the situations in which none of us have to ask:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u33	Mr. Speaker! This hate talk makes me a little angry. It also goes a little emotional. [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude] There is always an opportunity for injury in an open debate. It is, by the way, a rather small price to pay for open debate, democracy and freedom of expression. The fear of injury that is being cultivated in these speeches is, after all, like the mind of a small child. We adults need not constantly fear that this disagreement will be offended. There's nothing to be afraid of.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u34	Mr President! The government is not changing the clause that provides for incitement to the people's group. It is very unambiguous.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u40	Mr President! One’s freedom must not violate one’s rights, and when hate speech is spoken of, it is also said that the other’s sense of security can be violated. The Ministry of Justice has carried out a study to find out that hate speech affects the safety of the objects, mental health, authority confidence and makes the target of hate speech avoid moving in certain places. And now the latest studies also show that people are not going to influence social affairs because they are afraid of being attacked. Hate speech is not angry talk. In politics, you can be angry and you can disagree with politics, but in hate speech it is a matter of fomenting and stimulating someone. I would like to ask whether the Ministry of Justice has considered this aspect of democracy, because it is extremely important and hate speech is often directed at certain groups of people or certain types of people, so it would also be important to protect their right to participate in democratic decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u41	Thank you, Mr Filatov, for this question. You are also quite right that this previous report showed that there are clear indications that people often wonder whether they dare to go into politics or whether they want to be involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u44	Now the last question on this subject, and we will change the subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u45	Mr President! I would like to point out that this is not about the culture of the heart, but about who is being dragged into interrogation and justice. It is clear that the articles on incitement and violation of the peace of faith are used in a very selective way and the law is not the same for all. For example, many people from the Middle East or Africa may not make the same comments as our mainstream religion. Through the EU, the government even pressures social media platforms to censor arbitrarily views without even judicial decisions. There is a particular need for the protection of freedom of expression in terms of opinions that one may be offended by. We know that legitimate opinions are also allowed in North Korea. Limiting freedom of speech under the guise of hate-talking leads, at worst, to the bitterness of the people, to the division of the people and to social instability. Minister, how do you intend to promote freedom of expression instead of suppressing it?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u46	Mr President! I hope that the representative will: Mäkelä has also studied the statistics that show that Finland is at the top of the world when it comes to freedom of expression. So we are at the top of the world, we have a good freedom of speech. Are you familiar with these statistics? What you are saying now is something else, and it tells us that you want to give a distorted picture of what the situation in Finland is. It is not like its product, it is so that we have freedom of expression. The Court of Justice is the one who takes a stand on individual cases, and I am assuming that we have an independent judiciary, that we have a police officer who does his job, and that we have a prosecutor who does his work. And it is up to us, politicians, to try to create an atmosphere in this country that we have less hatred and more love.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u48	Mr President! In order to avoid misconception, Mr Mäkelä, about the measures taken by the Finnish Government, your claim that the Finnish Government would impose some kind of inappropriate pressure on the European authorities to act on this issue is not true. This government does want to ensure that these international platforms are not used for criminal activities, not for criminal activities. We both know that hybrid influence in the world is increasing and must be combated. In this context, the Finnish Government has taken action initiatives within the framework of the EU, but under no circumstances does this government want to put pressure on freedom of expression through the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u49	This topic is now closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u50	Let us move on to the next topic, which will be presented to us by Mr Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u51	Mr President! Finns are concerned whether the government is really going to cut off occupational pensions. According to the Government Programme, measures are envisaged to cut off occupational pensions in order to increase the number of smaller pensions to secure Prime Minister Antti Rinte's election promise.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u54	Now at least two ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u55	Mr President! This government is certainly not cutting off pensioners, quite the contrary. At the beginning of next year, if Parliament approves the budget proposal, there will be a significant rise in small pensions. This government wants small pensions to be corrected for those women who have suffered from the absence of a pension under the family leave scheme. In this context, there is also a desire to have a discussion between the parties to the earnings-related pension scheme as to whether the occupational pension funds could also be used to address this problem. There is a need for some EUR 200 to 300 million to repair it. The starting point is that this money, without any risk to the earnings-related pension system, could correct the pension for these low-income, long-working, hard-working women.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u56	Mr President! Mr Sarkomaa's question could be briefly answered: we are not going to. This government is not going to cut anyone's pensions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u60	Now I ask those representatives who want to ask questions about this subject to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u61	Mr President! There is no extra money in the earnings-related pension scheme. If you do not cut the pensions of policemen, nurses and teachers, then you will cut the pensions of our children and grandchildren, or you will increase the contributions for occupational pensions, which would then make it difficult for employment to develop and would in any case jeopardise the employment pension system. I consider this to be very serious. This is the first time in history that a sitting government puts its hands in the pocket of the earnings-related pension system in order to secure the election promises made by the sitting Prime Minister. I am absolutely sure that if you ask the employees' movement, ask pensioners, ask young people, ask anyone in Finland, they will not accept that the central issue of our Finnish welfare society, the occupational pension system, is put at risk. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, whether you will be able to answer this in front of Parliament: are you really going to put your hand in the earnings-related pension system and scrap the basic principle,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u64	At least Prime Minister Rinne will raise his hand.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u65	Mr President! Representative Sarkomaa, until 2005 the pension scheme did not recognise at all the right of persons on family leave, as a rule women, to a pension during its family leave. In 2005, the tripartite system produced a result in which it was agreed that EUR 550 would be calculated on a monthly basis for the pension intake during the period of family leave. For women who have accumulated a pension before this date, that pension entitlement is lacking and must be corrected under the earnings-related pension scheme if it is possible to work together in the trio to find out and take forward. That is what this government is going to push forward. I would like to ask the assembly whether you are now opposed to the correction of women's small pensions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u67	Mr President! These questions about the livelihood of pensioners are quite complex. These, of course, involve the occupational pension system, occupational pensions, the taxation of pensioners and the actual consumption of pensioners. My own view is that the income of pensioners has deteriorated in recent years. This is because, in particular, housing costs, health costs and, in many places, mobility costs, i.e. the use of their own car, have become more difficult, and many pensioners are having difficulty coping with daily compulsory bills. In addition to this, we know that the taxation of pensioners is about 300 million more severe than that of employees at the same level of income, and in addition to this, the sustainability of the occupational pension system and its indexes has been called into question in a large number of pensioner forums. Mr Rinne, the Assembly proposes the creation of a parliamentary working party to examine the sustainability of the occupational pension system with indexes, the taxation of pensioners and
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u68	Mr President! Mr Eestilä, you have just listed the issues which, during the last parliamentary term, when you were in your government, weakened the conditions for pensioners to make a living.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u69	Mr President! Mr Eestilä is quite right: pensioner poverty has increased. This is largely due to the fact that during the previous period the national pension was cut both by index freezing and by index cutting. However, as Prime Minister Rinne said, on 1 January 2020 the smallest pensions will be raised in euros. Guarantee pension will rise by EUR 50 and the smallest national pensions by EUR 34. And these will also be taken into account, among other things, in the case of residence of a pensioner, when the pensioner is left with the money that the government has promised.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u70	Mr President! If I were in the government, I wouldn't brag about this centenary that now comes into effect, cut and cut. But if we go back to this original question, according to the government programme, you want to finance more increases in pensions within the earnings-related pension scheme.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u73	Mr Zyskowicz, the pension system contains EUR 211 billion of roughly funded money. It covers around 25% of pension liabilities, which are therefore approximately four times higher than these pension funds. In the first place, when the pension system was started to be built, it was intended to build a system that was partly funded. The income of a partly funded system depends a great deal on the amount of income that happens to come in that year. It has a certain average time frame for which certain income targets are sought. At the moment, my assessment — based on expert discussions — is based on the fact that a certain amount of money can be removed from the earnings-related pension scheme for these low-income women in order to correct the problems created by the pension system at the level of income for these low-income women. I believe that this can be found through negotiation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u75	Mr President! The poverty of pensioners has indeed increased in recent years. Of course, the big element is the increase in the price of housing, and we should find more ways to tackle this increase in the price of housing. It is a great thing that the government brings these basic security improvements to Finnish pensioners, above all to those of the lowest-income pensioners who once again seem to be in the hands of the Coalition Party — at least if this debate is interpreted here. [of the Group of the European People's Party: No! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u76	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Honkonen, for an excellent question. Of course, the employment rate and the fact that everyone is genuinely involved in the labour market will largely determine the sustainability of our pension system as well as the sustainability of public finances. One of the government's key projects, which aims to raise the Finnish level of education and to ensure that all young people also have the capacity to cope with the Finnish labour market, is this reform, which will be done in order to extend compulsory education. At present, the employment rate of those dependent on primary education in Finland is only around 40 per cent. Despite the continuing decline in the number of these jobs over the last decades, about 15 per cent of each age group still lacks a secondary degree. In other words, this reform is crucial to tackling the social exclusion of young people and to ensuring that the Finnish employment rate:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u77	Mr President! “Mother,comes from the cash wall”, I remember my Prime Minister Rinne, is the money coming out of the wall? Is it true that you are actually raising pensions at the expense of other people's pensions? You promised an increase of EUR 100 to those who earn a pension of EUR 1400 in the election. Mr Pekonen, you are not fulfilling this promise, even though you say there will be an increase in small pensions. You don't raise pensions for people who make $1,400. So I ask you: when it comes to promises and keeping words and maintaining faith in government — to which it is under test — as well as in us parliamentarians, why is it promised but not implemented? The number of enforcements is also high for pensioners and elderly people in Finland. The Finns of Peru are suggesting that we make a programme of action,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u78	Mr President! There is such a proverb in Finland that “with the eye of the mother, who remembers old.” [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u80	Mr President! We agreed together in the negotiations on the Government Programme that a euro increase would be made for the smallest pensions, and that is what we are now doing: EUR 34 for the smallest national pensions, EUR 50 for guaranteed pensions, and the national pension will always rise there until about EUR 1400. [ Arja Juvonen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u81	Mr President! It seems to me that you, Prime Minister Rinne, do not want to talk about this crop of May Day, and that is why we want to talk about it, because you promised every Finnish who receives less than EUR 1,400 a month of pension, EUR 100 in a clean hand.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u84	Mr President! Mr Heinonen, we have discussed this issue several times. Let me say again here in front of everyone what I was speaking as May Day 2018. I said that for all Finns who earn less than EUR 1400, a multi-year programme, taking into account the balance of public finances, will be put...
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u85	And Minister Pekonen will be more specific.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u86	Mr President! I wish these A's wouldn't be ignored in this room.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u95	Mr. Speaker! Some time ago, I received greetings from an old lady from my hometown, the poor old lady, who is the mistress of the farm. He was very disappointed that he believed in your promise, Prime Minister Rinne. He believed in that 100, he never heard of that rhythm. He was disappointed. — He was disappointed. He could not trust your promise, and that is what this is all about, and that is why we are talking about this. Mr Pekonen, those increases are in order; that is not the case; it is the case of false promises and, on the other hand, the fact that you cannot increase your earnings-related pension by cutting other people's occupational pensions. There's no extra money in that register. But I would like to renew the reasoned question put by Mr Estilä. The Coalition Party is prepared to consider parliamentaryly the sustainability of our pension system, the development of the purchasing power of pensioners and whether the consumption basket behind the pension index corresponds to the real increase in pensioners' costs: the electricity bill, the increase in fuel prices,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u97	Mr President! It is extremely important to correct things that go far into the future, in such a way that it also lasts beyond the parliamentary term. If, in this situation, as you described, the Coalition Party is prepared to go into parliamentary preparation with the aim of genuinely improving the livelihood of low-income pensioners, the answer to your call is: welcome, we will only prepare them together.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u100	Mr President! When Mr Sarkomaa mentioned the police, the nurses, the teachers, and the hand in the pocket, many of them certainly remembered that it was in the pockets of these groups of workers that the convention went through by cutting holiday money. The Assembly pressed for the Kiki agreement, as Group President Mr Mykkänen has said here. When you were talking about pensioners, low-income pensioners, each of them will probably remember when the coalition went into their pockets by cutting national pensions last season and freezing the indexes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u103	Mr President! This content of the index basket is an important issue because the current consumer price index places emphasis on things that are not in the normal shopping cart of genuinely ageing people, pensioners, and that is why this is an extremely important issue that Mr Orpo raised. It is true that this has been discussed before. I am not sure I can say at the moment, but I have the impression that the Ministry of Finance is already currently going through this basket of indices, that it is now fulfilling the whole of the consumption habits of pensioners in the right way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u104	And now the last question on this subject — the matter has been raised by Mr Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u105	Mr President! It is very good that you have taken this catch, Prime Minister Rinne, and we are setting up that parliamentary working party.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u110	Minister Kiuru wants to answer anyway.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u111	Mr President! This was a question addressed to my own office, but it has nothing to do with pensions,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u115	The following subject and question will be presented to us by Mr Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u116	Mr President! The use of drugs has continued to increase and this is also reflected, among other things, in the results of the THL questionnaires. At the same time, drug-related harm, such as serious health and social damage and very serious organised crime, is also increasing. The citizens' initiative to abolish the impunity of cannabis use has received more than 50,000 signatures and is in the process of progressing towards Parliament. Some government parties support and support the citizens' initiative. The statements made by Minister of the Interior, Mr Ohio, especially as Minister of Police, are very surprising. This also goes beyond the remit of several ministers, and I now turn to you when Ohio is not here today. So I ask the Prime Minister: does the Minister of the Interior, Mr Ohio, and the Greens, represent the government's policy of substance abuse?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u117	Minister Henrikson, for all I know.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u118	Mr President! Drug crime is a crime that we do not want to see grow in Finland. And its criminality — those matters fall within the administrative sphere of the Ministry of Justice. There is no record in our government programme of changing criminal law in this regard, and that is very clear. Of course, citizens have the right to take citizens' initiatives, and all citizens' initiatives will then be dealt with here in Parliament. Here too, when it comes so far that it comes here, the Ministry of Justice will, of course, also give its opinion. I personally see that this is an extremely clear matter in that regard, which means that this government will not change criminal law in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u119	Mr President! Mr Östman, I confirm this clear position of the Minister of Justice on this situation. The matter has also been stated in the negotiations on the Government Programme: this is not progressing. But when I say this, I say that in substance abuse policy it is important to base decision-making on ever-increasing knowledge. There is different research data in relation to this cannabis, and I believe that the development of the researched data will be monitored in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u120	And a supplementary question on this subject, Mr Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u121	Mr President! It is, as two ministers have said here, that narcotics crime is an unlawful act defined in the Criminal Code in Finland. The possession, acquisition, use, manufacture, transport, trade and the pursuit of drugs may be punishable under national law. Yet the Minister for the Interior, Mr Ohio, has opened the debate that he is prepared to change this practice. My further question is: what is the government's position on the abolition of the criminality of cannabis use, as Mr Ohio has suggested? I hope — hopefully — that you are still in a different direction from the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u122	Mr President! Representative Östman, you can clone this debate, there is no need to discuss: this government does not bring such a proposal to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u124	Mr President! The driving force behind Finnish substance abuse policy has been that we have been sending out a very united message for decades that we are very negative about the abolition of the impunity of drug use. It's been a leading line in substance abuse policy up to now. In this respect, the policy on substance abuse will once again be based on the assumption that society also has a strong will to communicate less permissive attitudes towards illegal drugs and their use. This is something we are going to hold onto more and more, because the use of drugs, especially drugs, is even a very big problem in child protection today. It has to be said that we cannot raise the next generation by sending permissive messages that think it is worth going down this path.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u125	Last question, sista frågan, ledamot Bergqvist.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u126	Ärade talman, Mr President! I går firade vi svenska dagen. Dagen Hyllar Finlands TVåspråkighet, samlar Människor tillsammans och stärker gemenskapen. Det är en viktig dag för landets tvåspråkighet och för de Svenskspråkiga. Dagen till ära vill vi reflektera över språkgruppernas ställning i dagens Finland. Regeringsprogrammet har flera skrivningar om det svenska språket och om förverkligandet av språkliga rättigheter. Speciellt viktigt är utarbetandet av den nya nationalspråksstrategist.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u127	Värderade Talman! Tack till ledamot Bergqvist för frågan. Det är alltså så att nationalspråksstrategistin kommer att uppdateras under den raus regeringsperioden. Vi alla Oberoende av modersmålet, svenska eller finska, har samma rättigheter, och regeringen vill göra sitt för att stärka det att man också ska kunna se till att de språkliga rättigheterna förverkligas i practicen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u128	Värderade Talman! Vi har i undervisnings- och kulturministeriet också på gång flera processer som har betydelse för våra båda språkgrupper och betydelse spececiellt för undervisningen i svenska språket i Finland. Igår informerade ministeriet om att vi kommer att tillsätta en utredningsperson som enligt regeringsprogrammet kommenter att ansvara för en heletsutredning vad gäller undervisningen på svenska i Finland där vi kommer att granska situationen allt från småbarnspedogogogogicken till högskolorna och också se över tillgången på bland you give behöriga lärre och Barnträdgårdslärare på svenska i Finland. I do not give del av det arbete som vi ansvarar för handlar om att utarbeta ett program för att öka intresset och också utveckla undervisningen i det andra inhemska språket. Det gäller såväl undervisningen på finska i Svenskspråkiga skolor som framför allt undervisningen i svenska i finskspråkiga skolor, och det arbetet kommer vi att inleda i början av nasta år.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u129	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that this matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. Up to 1 hour and 30 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u130	Mr President! Here in the north, Finland’s Saimaa, lives one of the world’s most endangered seals. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u133	Mr President! We, our beautiful Saimaa, live the most endangered seal in the world, and if this seal disappears from Saimaa, it will disappear from the whole world. Last summer, however, we heard sad news. Only 12 hours after the end of Saimaa’s network restrictions — only 12 hours ago — the first news of the six drowning became known, and new news of grief was received the very next day. The unfortunate fact is that last summer was no exception, but the norm is drowned in nets every summer. Since 2005, there have been more than 70 of these noose traps. There are currently about 400 Saima elephants in the world, and every single individual who is drowned in the nets is useless and every death on the net is wrong. Mr President! There are restrictions on fishing online in the spring so that the spruces born in the winter can survive. However, it is clear to me that these restrictions are not enough. The restrictions do not apply to the whole area of Norpa's life and are in force for far too little time. The drowning of the Norps is particularly sad because they are useless. They could be prevented and must be prevented. The use of fishing gears which are dangerous to Norp must be restricted and restricted throughout the entire living area of the Norp. These restrictions must be extended to at least the whole of July, preferably even more extensive. Mr President! Saimaan seal is a unique animal, and it is a particularly important animal for us Finns, as it has become a symbol of Finnish nature and Finnish nature conservation, and it is only for us Finns to save the Norpe and protect the Saimaan elephant. No one else in the world can do that, and that is why I would like to thank the citizens' initiative makers and every single Finn who has signed this initiative and everyone for protecting and defending Finnish nature together.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u134	Mr President! Thank you, of course, for the initiative. In this way, it is a pleasure to note that its conservation measures in the Saimaa river basin have been very successful as a representative of the Saimaa river basin. The winter stock, as noted, is about 400 individuals at the moment. Good work has also been done to protect Norpa from research, Norppa counting, both from the Natural Resources Centre and the University of Eastern Finland, and we have some detailed information on the living conditions, movements and breeding areas of Norpe. The objective previously set in the Norpa protection strategy has been achieved six years early. After all, the target was 400 individuals in 2025, so some things have been done right. It is clear that the norm must be protected, that the position must be further strengthened, that restrictions are also needed. A total ban is an excessive measure, and it increases resistance and poaching. I also think that this is somewhat at odds with the objectives of the Government Programme, both in terms of recreational fishing and in terms of promoting domestic fishing, and also in terms of fishing tourism. In particular, online leisure fishing is an important summer hobby for summer cottages, and it must also be possible to provide conditions for the ever-decreasing professional activities in lake fishing. Furthermore, the debate that has taken place has already had a lot to do with, for example, the reduction in net fishing and the introduction of other forms of fishing and fishing gear, which is a good thing. It is therefore important that future conservation measures and restrictions are measured in a balanced way and in cooperation with people and fishing enthusiasts living around the water. As the Norp stock continues to grow, we need to be patient with this debate. It is now necessary to examine the pilot results of existing restrictions and prepare any new network restrictions from 2020 onwards, in peace, in consultation with experts and local people. A working group has been set up to assess the functioning of the existing restrictions. In addition, the restrictions are based on strong cooperation, mainly through agreements concluded between shareholders and Ely Centres, which will be in force until the end of 2020. The well-prepared, fact-based objectives and the restrictions that will support the protection of nobles will certainly continue to be necessary, as I said earlier, but we must now move forward with the steps that have been agreed together. Indeed, I am not in favour of a total ban or an extremist policy. It usually produces the worst results overall.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u135	Mr President! First of all, I would also like to thank the citizens' initiative makers and the signatories for this very important action, which is intended to protect the highly endangered Saimaan elephant. The Saimaan elephant population is estimated to be about 400 individuals. Although its position has been strengthened and almost tripled from the worst times, its viability is still under threat. There are many reasons, such as climate change, which makes it difficult to increase the novel, because it needs ice and snow to nest. However, the difficulties caused by climate change are difficult to remedy quickly. However, the main risks to Saimaan elephants — and especially young individuals — are also in the form of online fishing, which we can quickly influence here in Parliament. Researchers, together with Metsähallitus, stress the importance of reducing mortality to six fish traps if we want to retain the unique Saimaan elephant's position. We cannot therefore ignore our responsibility, even though I am aware that stricter regulations in the area of net fishing also have opponents, on the other hand, for quite understandable reasons. Mr President! I know this because most of the summer weekends I spend on the shore of Saimaa and have been talking to leisure fishermen. On the other hand, I have taken into account the study carried out by the South Savo Regional Union in 2015 that the majority of local people would also be expanding the ban on online fishing. We have committed ourselves to halting the loss of biodiversity in the Government Programme. This includes, for the most part, the preservation and further strengthening of the Saimaan elephant's position. We cannot close our eyes to this responsibility. I think it is important to clarify the extension of the ban on online fishing at least until the end of July. I believe that this would largely prevent the deaths of six people in the nets, but it would not seriously harm professional fishing at least. At the very least, the sites of the six should be identified quickly and carefully, and the ban on online fishing should continue in the vicinity of these sites. In short, to the end, we need to find ways of not driving the Saimaan noose into further distress, but, on the contrary, we can carry it further to revitalise. This can be done in good agreement with fishermen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u136	Mr President! Thank you, too, for the fact that in our time we have changed the Constitution in such a way that a citizens' initiative is possible. Citizens bring them things of particular importance. Here and with this citizens' bill, we stand by the fact that we are now protecting the rare seal population of some 400 individuals in Finland, but we must take global responsibility. We are here to cherish the international treasure, the unique life that we have and hopefully can continue to grow, despite the progress of climate change. In other words, the measures to be taken for treatment and protection have been successful, which provides a good starting point for further development. We have at our disposal issues that have not yet been raised in this debate. We must live in parallel with the local population and the professional fishermen. We have different systems in different sectors where this co-existence can be developed, taking into account the opportunities of the Metso programme, where individual people can contribute in return to preserving our biodiversity and promoting conservation activities. I hope that, when the working group does this work, account will also be taken of how, with fewer contradictions — as Mr Eskelinen stressed very well, working together, taking into account the interests of the various interest groups — we can find a good solution. As far as the Saimaan seal is concerned, it has been very successful so far, but it must already be considered humanly that, in addition to our protection efforts, which have contributed to the development of the Norma stock, the possibility of still six people continuing to be related and enriching the Saimaa waters with a larger position is being promoted.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u137	Mr President! Minister, ladies and gentlemen and others present! We have talked about the Saimaan seal and the six in Parliament many times, and I must say that results have also been achieved. That, in my opinion, is something we can generally be satisfied with. After all, we live in Finland, one of the most endangered animals in the world and the most endangered species, the Saimaan seal. That strain is currently less than 400 individuals, about 400 individuals, and on an annual basis, six have been born twenty, that is, the result has been achieved. But we must remember, as has been pointed out in many good speeches from all sides of the hall, that the future of the norps is the sole responsibility of us Finns. In Finland and in the world will there be Saimaa Norp, which we will decide in Finland, and we will be happy to be able to influence. Good results have been achieved. For the first time, for years, snow nests, helpers have been built, and I would like to say a big thank you to the volunteers who are doing these knocks there. Mr Järvinen, among other things, has been collating and building these artificial nests, and, if I remember correctly, for the first time in the last or the previous winter all the regions were able to build these aids, and it is on the hands of volunteers such as Mr Järvinen that they are born there very much. It has been an essential factor in this successful rescue operation of the Saimaan elephant. I was also particularly pleased when a couple of years ago we learned that the first man - built cane family was able to bring the first moons into the world. That was one good step. And perhaps even more finer — even in previous speeches, there has been concern that in the future we may no longer have these snows to be collected there — for the first time in the last few winters we have managed to get people to build a fully floating moon nest with a successful moon. So it is a completely human-made package, a measure made with EU funding and Finnish funding, and it is of course absolutely essential for the future, when snow winters are a little bit like this and when there is nothing to touch, we hope that more of these pontoons will be gained and they will also become more popular with the norms. I would therefore like to offer sincere thanks to all the authors and volunteers, and funding for this work, even though it is a matter of voluntary night, must be secured in the future, and, for example, funding must be found in Finland for the construction of these pontoons. Mr President! It is also certainly true that we can do more to avoid network deaths and, on the other hand, no more man - made norm deaths. One good thing has been these noose-proof shakes, which have been introduced, for quite a few leisure fishermen will certainly be able to satisfy their fishing pleasures as the small moons grow bigger. And I am sure, in the interests of honesty, that the ban on online fishing is inadequate at the moment, and that is why I personally believe it is justified that the ban on online fishing should be extended. Expert studies support the fact that an extension of a month, i.e. until the end of July, could be something that would produce better results and allow the six to grow larger. Let's do this first in this house and see what it can do. If so, I myself am prepared to take the next step, such as a total ban on online fishing, if the endangered Saimaan seal ultimately needs it. But I would now take the one step, extend the ban on net fishing by one month, and see if this measure will make the stock rise. Let's do everything we can to save the Saimaan elephant, our common unique animal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u138	Mr President! The Saimaan seal is a dear animal for all of us, and it is an animal that is endangered and a symbol that we must work to preserve endangered species. In this work, Minister Kimmo Tiilikainen was an excellent success. As Mr Eskelinen said, we have already achieved the target set for 25: there are more than 400 Norms. How the Minister A brickie could do this? We then tightened up the regulation, imposed various fishing restrictions and, above all, committed all the local actors to action in favour of the norm. The shareholders were given a premium of EUR 1.7 per hectare for ensuring that the fishing restrictions were better monitored and communicated. They also received compensation for reducing permit income. I believe that, in fact, every Finn who accidentally got a six-year-old on his network will feel very bad, and I am sure that his behaviour will change after that. Of course, now that these six deaths have occurred, it is partly an indication that the six has spread to areas where it was not known to occur. What is the message from downtown and me to this conversation? Firstly, as chairman of the committee, I promise that this very good and important initiative will be properly reviewed there in committee and we will consult experts and hear the ways in which the situation in the Norse can be improved. Yes, my message to this debate is exactly the same as the most constructive way of speaking here, for example in Mr Eskelinen's speech: it is important to commit local actors; it is also important to take care of the tradition and island identity of Saimaa, the availability of clean Finnish lake fish. There are ways from the point of view of the networks, for example from the point of view of time limitation, from the point of view of moving to another type of gear entirely — different means that I believe the locals will commit themselves to when it is discussed together. The Centre Party wants everyone in Finland to have the opportunity to fish now and in the future. This too is part of the Finnish tradition. And it is also important to note the potential of fishing and hunting tourism, which is untapped in large parts at the moment. More practical solutions can be found, and I hope that the scientific community will also give its best in this regard. It is a good thing that such a working group there is already wondering what more can be done about this. In fact, here is the message I myself wanted to bring to this debate. Indeed, we will have more debate and then we will have more in-depth discussions there in committee. A very good debate, and I am grateful to the author of the initiative for raising this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u139	Mr President! I too would like to express my warm thanks to the authors and signatories of this initiative. It is really great that this initiative so quickly collected over 70,000 signatures. It shows that Finns want to protect and cherish the novel. As has already been said, Norppa is the world's most endangered seal: it lives only in Finland and only in Saimaa. On the other hand, even now — although the Norppa is still endangered — the development of the novel stock can also be seen as a success story for nature conservation. Like a representative, at least. Kivela said, earlier, the Norp was considered as an accidental animal and received death money. In the 1950s it was reassured, and in the next decade the position was evaluated. In 1979, the Finnish WWF’s Saimaa seal working group was established. In the 1980s, the first conservation measures began, but it was not until 1996, for example, that stock monitoring and conservation work was delegated to the Ministry of the Environment from environmental organisations — our first Green Environment Minister, Pekka Haavisto, during his ministerial term. And, as has been said here, the noose population has gradually grown. At the beginning of this decade, it was about 300 individuals in size, but it is already 400 in size. This is all a positive development, but, as we know, the norm is still at risk. It is not only threatened by online fishing but also by climate change. As Mr Kalmari said, I too believe and have understood that every leisure fisherman who finds a dead six in his nets is shocked. It is very common for people to think that a thing in itself, so generally, is harmful, but if I do it myself, it is not then, it cannot be harmful for me. Must be a lot of people with nets in the summer. Whoever fished in Saimaa has thought the same way. However, the networks of recreational fishermen are the ones that kill the six most. As many colleagues have already said, an extension of one month to the ban on online fishing would also be an important improvement. Finally, I would like to say two things, Mr President. First of all, the fact that, although the novel stock has really developed slowly but positively, we must not forget that climate change is also threatening the novel, because the novel is building its nest in the kinks. For many years now, people have had to help norppamahs by making helpers so that the mothers can get their sixes into the snow nests for the first few weeks. Finally, I would like to say that there are quite a lot of people who still do not understand the threat that climate change poses to man, but it seems that, unfortunately, there are even more who do not understand the importance of biodiversity not only to life in general but also to man. In this connection, I would like to quote the chairman of the Finnish Nature Panel, Professor Kotiaho, who, in my opinion, has given an excellent illustration. He has compared the extinction of species to being on an airplane that separates a staple at a time. No one knows in advance which rivet will cause the machine to crash, but everyone knows that at some point the rivets will be disastrous for all passengers. In exactly the same way, we do not know what chain reactions, at what stage and at what rate the extinction of species results. And since man is, after all, a natural product — it is a product of life’s diversity, our own lives depend on the big weave of this life — it is important that we take care of this big weave of life and its diversity.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u140	Mr President! The citizens' initiative, as has already been pointed out by many here, brought an important issue to our debate when talking about the possibility of living in Saimaa. Yes, the Saimaan seal is one of the rarest seals in the world. The centre is also concerned about and is doing, has been working for a long time, to protect the Saimaan novels and to increase the stock, and it is very important to us that we continue to find ways of better reconciling novel protection and fishing. This year-round ban on online fishing would put an end to, for example, net fishing in winter. Thanks to the current conservation measures, the size of the novel stock has already increased to more than 400 individuals. Just as Mr Eskelinen has pointed out, something has been done right, and many others have said here that we have also succeeded in protecting the norps. But of course we still have something to improve. For example, there are many good practical solutions to protect the spruce, which can be further developed and expanded. These include the anchoring of nets and the use of thinner threads in nets, enabling the spruces of July to break the net and not cling to it. The use of other such noose-resistant gears, such as traps and scaffolding, will also help to avoid damage. It must be remembered, of course, that in the case of Norpes it is a matter of protecting the whole species, the whole. It is very important that we, together, are committed to a strategy for the protection of the norm and to the growth objective of its position, and I think that it is a very valuable observation, which has been pointed out here by many representatives, that the protection of the norm must be done with the attention of local people and together with them. Then we'll all get the best results for the Norps.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u141	Mr President! As has already been pointed out here, I am pleased to live in the middle of the norves in Puruvesi. I am at least the fifth, sixth generation representative there, and the norps have always come to terms with them. For at least 20 years, I have followed the protection of the norm very closely with my friend ‘Norppa’s ‘Taskinen’s,chemienitv programmes and —The Czech Republic’s — including the University of Eastern Finland researchers and the Metsähallitus media. For at least 10 years I have had the pleasure of participating in Norppa calculations and in recent years also as a volunteer in these assistive activities, which are important. Despite the fact that there are so many of us volunteers, I believe that the greatest number of hats deserve those that have still been discussed here today, and they are fishermen. 15 years ago, when Norpa protection was done, it became called a flower hat aunt and a green-cheeseer, and so on, and there was a great confrontation. Minister Leppä remembers quite well many of the joint events where we were, where leisure fishermen, professional fishermen and Norpa protectors were almost at the hair licks — but it has now changed. And I would really like to give the largest number of hats to the fishermen in Saimaa, especially the professional fishermen, who currently only have about 300 left in Saimaa, less than the norm. It is important for us to reflect on the promotion of Norpa protection, that we do so socially sustainablely and also in a sustainable way for fisheries. It is worth remembering — while correcting some of the mistakes that have been made here — that the greatest threat to the novel is not man, but, of course, climate change, by far. But man is the only one who can save the Norp, and that requires our work. At the moment, the Finnish eats only about 4 kg of domestic fish a year. At the same time, foreign fish are eaten 13 kg per person per year. If we want to make a sustainable future, it is important to promote the eating of domestic fish. Although we are talking about relatively small kilos in net fishing in Saimaa, in euros it is a big deal for the fisherman, because the nets are specifically fork-fishing. If the year-round ban on online fishing were to come into force, it would mean that the amount of drift would not be reached by 100,000 tonnes per year. One hundred thousand grand a year. These are quite wild figures when you know what the price of a pound is compared to a pound of cheese, for example, and that is why this work of promoting noble protection must be done with patience and discretion. What, then, can be done? There is a broad consensus that months of protection can be increased to at least July. We all know that a six is a little like a puppy that tries and plays when he grows up, even does things recklessly, but when he grows up he becomes wise. Quite a number of experts say that that month is a very crucial time in its sixth life, and then the risk of network deaths will be substantially reduced. A further month of novel protection would certainly be the most effective of individual means. If and when six are born in new areas, it is essential to have more restricted areas, and they will then be negotiated jointly by the water shareholders and the Ely Centre. We also need much more effective communication with cottagers and leisure fishermen so that they will be able to avoid fishing online as early as July next summer. I understand the pain that it is, when you realize you have a six on your own network, no one wants it. You can think about the string strength of the network. At the moment it is quite common to use 17 million nets, but changing the net to 15 million threads is already a much better result for six and novels, and I even know professional fishermen who have changed all their nets to these 15-millimeters. Fishing equipment and their structures must be developed and different types of fishing gear processed further. My friend, Mr Taskinen, whom I have already mentioned, is currently fishing as a professional fisher with stilettos, but also with bottom traps, which are then being developed in such a way that they are novel-safe, so that no norm can enter them. One bottom trap is equivalent to three or even five networks, which can also become a means of the future. We need to make a variety of decisions that are sustainable, both for the norm, for fishermen and for the entire fisheries sector. But let me remind you that only in the time that I have been involved in this, the change has been tremendous. There has been a huge consensus on this disunity and the throwing of sols, and many of these recreational fishermen and professional fishermen are themselves making aids for the Norp and are themselves in the process of calculating the Norp stock at the end of April when it is being done. And we have to stick to this cooperation. Without it, the noose would be worse. We can't afford that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u142	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Järv for his excellent speech. He, if anyone, knows what it is to live near Saimaa and near the Norps, also — an expert without compare. All in all, Saimaa is one of the pearls of Finland, which we all recognise and know, and the norm is a unique, endangered animal. As a resident of the southernmost Saimaa and a summer resident on the shore of Suur-Saimaa, I also know what discussion about Norp, fishing, leisure and permanent housing Saimaa has been visited over the years. The endangered noose population is now recovering even faster than expected, and the interim target of 400 individuals, set in 2025, has already been reached six years early in practice. The recovery of the novel stock is already due to the current fishing restrictions, the voluntary nature — and I am going to say this in particular — and the safeguarding of the nesting of novels, for example, through collage and voluntary work, in particular. As Mr Järvinen said in his own speech, it is the fishermen who have been very involved and also the leisure people who have been very involved, and it has also taken a great deal of action from there because of the will of the shareholders, the owners of the waters. The fact is that once the Norp stock has grown, the living areas of the Norp have also spread, and they are already being found in the southernmost parts of Greater Saimaa, and it is unique. New tourism has already been developed there in Saimaa. For a few years there have been, for example, Norvel cruises, where you have been able to follow the way the norm is on stone with the professionals of your profession. What is essential, in my opinion, is the common will that must be found here too: voluntaryness, cooperation. Personally, I do not want to see or experience any more of the opportunities that have been taking place on this issue some years ago. That's where the confrontation was strong. But those opportunities have, in my opinion, moved in the right direction. So the current Norp readings show that the current measures have also achieved good results, but this work must continue, the Norp is still at risk. But the fact is that Saimaa currently accommodates not only Saimaa elephants, professional fishermen, but also recreational fishermen, and this must continue to be the case. It should also be possible to have leisure residents and residents of permanent housing working together and working together. All in all, the starting point of the centre is that people in the Saimaa region are involved in the protection and the protection measures are taken in listening to the people in the region. Voluntary foundations, as well as the current restrictions and the voluntary nature of the owners of fishing areas, have thus helped to increase the number of norms, and this is where the owners of the waters play a key role. I think that every noose death that occurs either by drowning in nets or, for example, by the natural death of six nests is regrettable and absolutely unacceptable. The fact is that not only online mortality, but climate change and the lack of snow are also a fact that results in the death of the six. That is why it is very good that volunteers have also been found for collapsing and helping nests in winter. The traditional nature of the Saimaa region and the availability of clean Finnish lake fish must also be taken care of, as well as the role of professional fishermen. And leisure fishing must continue to be possible. All in all, the ban on all-year-round fishing would be a shocking act which I cannot accept under any circumstances, but the current principles must move forward. As far as I am concerned and as the Centre is concerned, every Finn should have the opportunity to continue fishing and, as I said, a year-round ban on online fishing would significantly hamper the professional fishing of Saimaa and the leisure and leisure activities that Saimaa has plenty of. In this context, I would like to thank Minister Leppää for the work he has already done in advance on this matter: it is based on the fact that people in the region will be and can be strongly involved in the preparation of the new fisheries rules. As far as I am concerned, it is extremely important that cooperation is the way forward in this area too. Saimaa therefore has room for Norppa, professional fishermen and recreational fishermen, now and in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u143	And Nestor Mikkulainen. — Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u144	Mr President! I would like to thank those who have taken the initiative. They have raised an issue which is certainly one of the most debated and which is giving rise to huge numbers of opinions today. It is good to discuss and plan things carefully — it eliminates prejudice and at the same time helps to keep the life of this important creature as well as possible, precisely so that the position remains strong. The Saimaan seal is important to us all, we know that. In itself, I am not in favour of these coercive measures on total bans, they have always been harmful, whatever the case may be, and in the long run only cause a huge reaction, which then automatically results in things that would not benefit the norm in this case. I hope for a good, diverse dialogue and, above all, that together we will take this forward so that both the Norpa can live on its own territory and other animals can survive there, as well as those people there on the lake shores can continue their own work, their own leisure activities and their livelihoods. It should be remembered that too little attention has been paid to the fact that the livelihood of so many people, the daily bread, depends on the continued good and efficient use of these lakes. I would also like to thank Minister Leppää for his firmness in this matter, and when this debate on this total ban on net fishing went off the ground last summer, he already took a strong stand that a working group should be set up to look at this issue in a comprehensive way, and then conclusions will be drawn. This working group has already started work on 18.10. This year, i.e. the work is ongoing, and the work lasts for about a year. It is very valuable that this working group works. There is always such a bad habit in this country that when something starts to be protected, then it is a total ban, which is a totally flawed act just because when these different protection systems are taken forward in the European Union, Natura, for example, there is no such total ban known. There certain things can be protected, but people’s lives continue in the area as normal. In Finland, we assume that when someone is banned, a total ban is not allowed to do anything. It is quite the wrong approach, because it must be remembered, however, that if we want to maintain a Finnish rural culture or life in general on those Finnish secrets and shores of lakes, it means that people have to be able to live there. No culture will develop unless there are people there. It is always worth remembering, even for those who are passionate about protection. The strong increase in the use of domestic fish mentioned in the Government Programme must also be borne in mind. Fish is very healthy and good food at the table, absolutely delicious. It is hoped that everyone will enjoy it as often as possible. It is truly healthy and nutritious and good food. Unfortunately, today, 80% of fish are imported from abroad, and the irony is where these fish come from: much from Norway, this time the truck race is heading north towards the south. This is where we Finns have much to improve. It would create jobs for Finns if we used as much of our own fish as possible, reduce much of our spoken imports and, above all, manage our own waters. For water management in general, it is extremely important that domestic fish are used. When fish are removed from the lake, that means that phosphorus balance is improved, nutrients are reduced from the lake and the situation of the lake is substantially improved. For example, in the same region of Saimaa, in the region of Kitee, Puruvesi is undergoing a LIFE project, which has two important tasks: to control the runoff water and to minimise nutrient losses to Puruvesi. It is at a good start and at a good speed, the targets have been repaired and the work is progressing. But another important act was the experimenting that took place the other spring to see how much fish there would be that would have to be removed, a different kind of fish called junk fish, which is used as feed for minks and raccoon groves, among other things. From there, 32 tonnes of fish were drawn dry — from two depths to 32 tonnes dry. It greatly improved the water condition of those bays. This is something we should all remember. The Government Programme is quite right in this regard that the position of domestic fish should be improved. Fishing is an important industry for a large number of people, and it is also an extremely important hobby for many people, whether during summer holidays or leisure time in general. It is a matter of industry, it is a question of hobbies and it is also a question of the Finnish way of life. Let us not belittle the fact that, for example, the interests of a family have included fishing for hundreds of years, or that a young man or a woman is enthusiastic about fishing and teaches its noble fishing skills to her children. Extremely important action. Finally, Mr President, one last thing about this novel. This is a convenient way to get to another endangered animal, a forest deer. We've got wolves protected in this country with enthusiasm, a species that's... There are some 30,000 to 40,000 wolves in the western region of Ural, and it is also mentioned in this house that it is endangered here in Finland. I'm sure that's not true. But that is where the ears of Kainuu are spinning, and on Ruuna of Lieksa the stock of deer is spinning, and there are fewer than a thousand of them left. It's dying of extinction. They don't even think it's worth protecting, they don't even talk about it. In this country, the protection of wolves has done the same thing, that it has been attacked on many other issues. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u147	Mr President! Yes, the Saimaan seal is one of the world’s most endangered seals. If the Norp loses from Saimaa, it will disappear from the entire earth. Finland’s biodiversity is in crisis, which is largely due to human activity. The Saimaan seal symbolizes this change, and this citizens' initiative reflects the concern that Finns have about nature. I would like to thank the people who signed the initiative. Today's citizens' initiative to extend the ban on online fishing in the Saimaa Norp area is important, as the most common single cause of death for Saimaa is the death of fish. In order to protect the norm, the use of fishing gear which is dangerous to the norm must be restricted throughout the entire Norwegian habitat and the ban on net fishing must be extended by at least one month. The Decree of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry on the limitation of net fishing until the beginning of July has been in force for three years. However, this restriction is not sufficient, as four to eight six nets die each year. The extension of the ban on net fishing does not threaten fishing in Finland. For example, narrow-sniffed shakes, lures and fishes are novel - safe fishing practices. Climate change, as has been said here, is also threatening the future of the norm, because the norm needs snow. Norppa is not the only animal threatened by winter change. The warming climate is radically visible in Finland. Finland’s average annual temperature warms twice as fast as the rest of the world. According to the monitoring of the Finnish Meteorological Institute, winters in particular have become milder in Finland. The average temperature of the Christmas months from the 1850s to this day has risen by nearly five degrees. According to the forecast of the Finnish Meteorological Institute, it may not be snowing in Southern Finland as early as 2050. In Northern Finland, the temperature is also falling, the composition of snow procurement changes and the duration of snow cover is shortened. The warming of winter threatens the conditions of Finnish wildlife. Southern habitats creep north, but not all species can move up. This is, for example, the situation of the naali — which has disappeared from the Finnish nature — already now. It is therefore absolutely critical to stop global warming for our animals too. The Saimaan noose cannot be protected by anyone but us Finns themselves. Our important task is to save the Finnish biodiversity and to maintain the vitality of our endangered species.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u148	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The Saimaan seal is the most endangered seal in the world. They are nowhere but in Finland’s Saimaa. They are still in immediate danger of extinction. I would like to thank the citizens' initiative and the public's expression of will for the rescue of the Saimaan noose. Unfortunately, the most common single cause of death of the Saimaan seal is the death of fish. The current regulatory ban on online fishing will last from mid-April to the end of June. The citizens' initiative proposes to ban online fishing in Saimaa throughout the year. The Greens are of the opinion that at this stage the ban would be extended by at least one month, i.e. in the future online fishing would also be prohibited in July. Last summer, online fishing was allowed on 3.7. and in a few days, four sixths were lost in the nets. This re-launched a heated debate on Norp. All these four sixes were killed in nets that would ask for a bump or a big perch. One was in the 55 mm node, three in the 60 mm node — all networks of leisure fishermen. It has been found that the fewer the mesh is from the node, the more dangerous it is to the novel. The danger is explained by the fact that when a noose’s head fits through the eye, it does not notice it. We know clearly that in July the six is still susceptible to being caught in the nets. The bigger the six, the less likely it'll stay in the net. The most dangerous time for the six is May-June,which has been protected. We know that about 80 percent of all Saimaan elephants who died in fish traps are less than 24 kg and six to achieve that weight in August. Extending the ban on online fishing by one month to July would apply most to leisure fishermen, cottages like myself in Savo, there in Haukivide near Linnansaari. The total population of Norpes is now around 400, of which approximately 155 to 200 are progeny. In the 1980s, the number of Norpes was estimated to be between 120 and 150. In the 21st century, the stock had been raised, but there was a slip, then the estimate was about 260 individuals. Active protection work has therefore reached these current figures. Yet, the species is highly endangered. In particular, mild winters reduce nesting conditions and, as has been said here, climate change increases this risk all the time. It is therefore our responsibility now to actively pursue this protection work. The protection of the Saimaan seal is aimed not only at the growth of the stock, but also at spreading the stock to areas where it has been lost by man. The extension of the ban on net fishing must therefore be done in both time and regional terms. Saimaa could fit thousands of Norp. This is a goal that we should keep in mind when we consider and decide on the means of protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u149	Mr President! Thank you very much for an important initiative by the authors and signatories of the initiative. It is indeed an honour to protect the Saimaan elephant. It is fortunate that this long-term work has had an impact and must be continued with great determination. It was said here that Saimaa is one of the pearls of Finland, but I sometimes feel that we have not quite recognized and appreciated it enough. This is also explained by the still reasonably difficult situation of the Saimaan elephant. Saimaan seal is still a highly endangered animal, and Saimaa is his only home. So while we're protecting the novel, it's important to take care of the living conditions of the novel. The quality of the water is good or excellent in most Saimaa and Suur-Saimaa, and when you look at the latest studies on the state of the lakes in Finland, it can be seen that those blue areas are just there for Saimaa and Eastern Finland for Greater Saimaa and, of course, for Northern Lapland, where there is still very clean water for the time being. However, Saimaa has also been burdened by agriculture and forestry, industry and increasingly by new projects, such as Finnpulp’s project in Kallavesi, which is now being discussed by the Supreme Administrative Court. It is clear that water quality must not be undermined. To the southern Saimaa, water comes along our really long route to Greater Saimaa. From Pieline and from the north through Kallavesi on the Soisalo side of the Leppävirta route and also from the east side of the Heinävesi route. In these areas too, there are several initial plans to find relatively poor ore in very large open mining areas. They also threaten our waters. Just recently today we heard from researchers that it is very difficult to control these water risks, as we have seen in Winterfell and then experienced what has happened in Lake Nuasjärvi and how the ecological state of this water has deteriorated. That is why I feel that we do not yet appreciate Saimaa as well as Saimaa, but there is potential. Saimaa also reflects the history of Finland and the Finnish way of life in the best possible way. Waterways have often lived in such a way that it has been difficult to move, and the roads have been used late. Water routes have been moved, and this has of course lasted longer, so just as a very lively local culture and great events and the process of life in the Saimaa region can still be seen, not to mention Savonlinna or Punkaharju and Savonlinna, which is a wonderful place. That's it. In fact, you can go out from the side of Olavinlinna, for example, for a novel cruise. I myself had the opportunity to participate in this and to hear about the protection work that has been done for the Norpa. Fortunately, the Government Programme has indeed stated that lake tourism is being promoted and water quality is being improved, not weakened. Inland waterway transport is being developed and the potential of local tourism in Finland has also been better identified. However, it is still very unclear what we can actually do and how we can turn such Finnish modesty into pride, for example, whether it was only a Norpa living in Finland or Saimaa, which is Finland's largest lake and the fourth largest lake in Europe. Here, too, it is not worth keeping the candle under the stable, but to be genuinely, honestly proud and to defend these areas, which are certainly not everywhere. It is quite amazing to many visitors that water can still be consumed directly from some lakes. There are not many of those lakes in Finland now, but in any case we still have very clean lakes for the time being. We'll take care of them. We'll take care of the only home in Saimaa. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u150	Mr President! I would also like to join in thanking the citizens' initiative for this activity, which they have shown. When you talk about Norpa, it always reminds you of the “Little Torp in Saimaa Island ” and the other way around. That’s what my mother has had to sing to me — a familiar song, I suppose, for everyone here. For 37 years in Saimaa, I have always spent all my free time, and the noose has been missed. It certainly also indicates that there is still too little Norp, even though the stock has grown. In the local newspaper, we had only a good estimate of how the distribution of the Saimaan elephant might also be made stronger in southern Saimaa and not just in Greater Saimaa. Also in South-East Finland, Imatra, veterinary surgeon Sarkanen was a novel protector last summer and helped one of the six to return to the land of the living, and now we are lucky to find that the Natural Protection Association also rewarded him for this Norppa treatment facility. As has been said here, the Norppa is endangered, and these similar but not similar Norp are also found in other parts of the world: Ladoga and Lake Baikal. The Ladoga has considerably more neutral relations with the Norppa on that other side of the eastern border than we do here, and it would therefore be interesting to know what has been done there in order to make the co-existence of Norpa and man quite different from that of Finland at the moment. However, I am happy that we can now talk about this in such good agreement. For that, thank you to all the representatives, and perhaps the last speech by Minister Henriksson during Question Time was in the right place. I understand very well the need for protection as well as the views of fishermen, especially when this mammal is so clever that he can eat fish directly from the net. However, I believe that the total ban on online fishing has been over-exploited because, for example: Saimaa needs even more fishing in fish management. We also have a huge resource for domestic food in Saimaa. The Prime Minister has asked us many times to eat more fish. Here is one chance, we could do it as a climate action. That is why I believe that we cannot ban online fishing altogether, but I am sure that some form of gradual tightening should be considered in order to improve the novel stock still further and because fish management is just as important as game management, even though those fish are, of course, slightly poorly visible from under the surface. But I believe that we have the opportunity to find a common tone, both in terms of fishing and in terms of the protection of the norm, so that the old boy with the mustache does not have to be the last of his family.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u151	Madam President! In July, this citizens' initiative to ban online fishing in the Saimaan Norp area collected the necessary number of signatures in just two days. It showed that Finns are affected by the death of the six and the protection of the Saimaan seal. Thank you for the important work done by the authors and signatories on behalf of the Saimaan noose. In this context, I would also like to thank Mr Järv for his very expert speech. It is really great that we have real Norppa experts here in Parliament. Saimaan seal is a highly endangered species and the most endangered seal in the world. Its total population is only about 400 individuals. And, as has been said here, the Saimaan elephant's position has been strengthened thanks to active and effective conservation measures, but the species is still in danger of extinction. It has also been said here that the great threat, in addition to the death of fishing gears, is mild winters that weaken breeding conditions, and this is indeed a serious indication of the serious impact climate change has on biodiversity. Our Norppa stock is therefore particularly sensitive and all means must be put in place to safeguard it. Since the Saimaan elephant lives only in Finland, we are really responsible here in Finland for the survival of the novel, and it is also a responsibility for Finland to protect the novel stock under the EU's Habitats Directive. The protection and protection of the Saimaan seal also aim at increasing and spreading the stock to areas where it has already disappeared by man. It is therefore justified to extend the ban on online fishing, both regionally and over time. Madam President! As noted, the most common cause of death for a Saimaan elephant is death from fish traps. At the moment, online fishing is banned in the Norse area by Government decree until the end of June, and yet, indeed, sad news from last summer reported that at least five-sixths died in the fishing nets during July. In other words, in order to protect the novel stock, it is important that the use of fishing gears which are dangerous to the norm is restricted throughout the whole of the novel population and that these limits are extended to at least the same level of July as has already been mentioned here. In nature conservation measures, it is important that we rely on the best existing research data, and it is also a good starting point for dealing with this citizens' initiative and for improving the effectiveness of Norpa protection measures. Finally, I would also like to thank all those involved — citizens, fishermen, organisations and scientists — who have voluntarily done valuable work to protect the seal. Let us do our part as legislators here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u152	Madam President! The Saimaan elephant has been very much spoken of here, actively and with great words. It's important. Almost so much has been said here that I am no longer saying anything, but I would like to repeat something else here — except, of course, to thank those who took the initiative for this, and unlike Mr Malmi, it has been a pleasure to see that rare, most endangered seal in the world. If the Saimaa seal disappears from Saimaa, then — I would like to emphasise — it will disappear from the whole earth. That is why it is we alone who are responsible for the survival of the norm. And, as has just been said, Mrs Elok, under the EU's Habitats Directive, Finland has a duty to protect the novel stock. The Saimaan elephant population has turned up with joy thanks to active conservation work, as has been said here, and thanks go not only to nature conservation organisations but also to a large number of individual citizens who, in low snowy winters, have knocked snow into the nesting hams of Norpes. But the species is still in danger of extinction, as has been demonstrated here. The most common single cause of death of the Saimaan seal is this death of net fishing, and every one that is drowned in the net is too much, every six death is still too much. Last summer we really heard about these five new sad cases when online fishing was allowed from the beginning of July. In a few days, five of them were drowned. This shows that the current restrictions on online fishing are, unfortunately, not enough. The best and most effective solution is to extend the fishing restriction. Another means is to increase knowledge and awareness. We Finns are proud of our good compliance with the rules, and the absence of a ban on online fishing in July as well as on the borders of the Norse breeding area gives the wrong impression that online fishing would not threaten the lives of six people. All that remains to be said is that I am very much in favour of extending the limit on online fishing to at least the whole of July.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u153	Mr President! There has been a very good debate here on this citizens' initiative, which, in fact, on a very fast schedule collected the required names and proceeded to this Parliament for discussion. I also vividly remember that one of the saddest songs of my childhood was “Old Boys with a mustache”,and that they sang that a very common seal and a place might not be the only one. In that sense, we can say that somewhere we have succeeded quite well, but now there are fewer than 400 seals. However, the reality remains that the Saimaan seal is one of the world’s most endangered or endangered seal species. It is indeed great that the working group is now considering how to continue to ensure that the stock is growing and not decreasing. Hopefully, at some point there would be a situation where it would no longer be an animal as endangered as it is at present. The citizens' initiative also proposes a rather radical measure, but it does indicate that people are still concerned about the seal, and of course the six deaths that took place last summer have certainly been a cause for concern, and that is perfectly understandable. I hope, however, that the work of the working group will progress reasonably quickly and that we will also get answers to people's concerns. I believe, for example, that an extension of the month proposed by experts to the ban on online fishing could be a solution that would also sound acceptable. Of course, it is also important for the fishing industry that such things, which are sensitive in the region, should be pursued in cooperation so that both the six win and at the same time be able to ensure that domestic fish, for example, can still be eaten in Finland. Thank you again for bringing this initiative to Parliament, and it is good that this is now moving forward to the committees. Certainly, then, at the same time as the working group is considering its work, the committee will consider how Parliament will respond to this initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u154	Madam President! With the number 20 on the list of speakers, there is not much more to add to these previous speeches, especially since my own experience is limited to this role of Pullervo-live and WWF's monthly donor. I am tremendously inspired by the speeches made by people living and on holiday in your region. It's gonna be the real feeling about what's going on in there. It is true that Norppa is indeed a symbol of Finnish nature conservation. And especially the fact that this citizens' initiative collected the number of signatures required in two days is also a strong message for us in Parliament. We need to take swift and effective action so that we can strengthen the novel stock and continue to pursue those conservation measures. In the last few speeches, we have also highlighted the fact that most of these standards that died on the networks in July have been less than 24 kg. As Mr Järvinen said, the norppa is like a little puppy: when you give a little time, it learns. And here, of course, is the fact that when it reaches its weight and size, then the net is no longer so life threatening. I would be very prepared to support this addition of the month ban until the end of July. Of course, we must always follow what this working group can do and what it will present then in December. But perhaps one step at a time, so that the local players are involved, because it is the worst thing that we can do inside the wheel of the third wheel. As has been the case here, we do not want to put the fishing industry and the tourism industry at risk. So it is hoped that things will move in the right direction and that from May onwards we will be able to follow what is happening in Pullervo.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u155	Madam President! It is a pleasure to note that people want to protect the noose, regardless of the party, all over the hall. It is important to implement this protection in a sustainable and socially just way. It is worth recalling that when the average number of six were born at the beginning of the millennium more than 50 per year, I am glad that more than 80 have been born every year in recent years. It is so important to maintain this direction and speed that it is worthwhile working together. And what was left unsaid is that a large part of the exchange of views and changes there locally has been due to compensation for fishermen. At the moment, the owners of the water area and the fishermen through it will be replaced by EUR 1.7 per hectare per year. In other words, almost EUR 400000 per year will be channelled into these regions, and this will be important in the future. When we talk about the timetable for us to bring new rules or regulations into force, it is worth remembering that we have had good cooperation over the years and that has also been done by the Norpa Monitoring Group. The water agreements will end at the end of next year. This means that new agreements should be negotiated and negotiated by the end of next year. It is also for this reason that I hope that next summer we will have strong information for all cottagers and leisure fishermen about the fact that these networks should still be left in the dry land for July, so that we can make progress calmly for the next summer, but also so that this Norpa Monitoring Group will have time to react and do its own work, which it has done well and successfully in the last few years.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u156	Madam President! I should like to start by saying that I am very grateful to be able to take the floor, my own brief speech, after Mr Järvinen's speech, because I think that you are one of the norm's mothers, and I might think that someone else in this Chamber thinks the same way. Then, of course, I would also like to thank every signatory to the citizens' initiative for my part and to begin by saying that every dead six is too much, so it is obvious that the noose must be protected and the position must be further strengthened and these restrictions are needed. I think it is important that protection measures and restrictions are balanced in cooperation with the locals, as has also been said here today in several speeches. The Finnish Union for Nature Conservation’s strategy states: ‘In order to achieve the conservation objectives of Saimaa, fishing in the Saimaa region must be I dare to think that each of us in this Chamber will sign that strategy, even those fellow Members of Parliament who have not been able to take part in this debate because of other tasks. The proposed total net fishing ban is certainly an oversized measure, but it is certainly not an extension of the net fishing ban by one month to the beginning of August. It has been estimated that this month’s extension will have a clearly positive impact on the survival of the moons, and this must, of course, be taken into account in further preparation. What is clear is that the endangered species must be protected, and I hope that the citizens' initiative will be dealt with in the House in the spirit that Mrs Torniainen said in her speech when she said that Saimaa will continue to be matched by Norpas, professional fishermen and recreational fishermen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u157	We have spent an hour and a half on this, and I am sure it would be fine if this debate were to end in the Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u158	Madam President! I, too, have had the pleasure of seeing Saimaan elephant in Saimaa once, even though I don't live on the shore of Saimaa, but I've been there quite a bit over the decades. Saimaan seal is protected in Saimaa. Saimaan seal is protected by the joint efforts of local, summer residents, fishermen and various partners. It is therefore very important that we are able to maintain and strengthen this dialogue and interaction, otherwise the noose population will not be strengthened. We have jointly agreed our objectives for raising the noose stock. We are about six years ahead of that objective, and this is a great thing, this is really a great thing. Thank you to everyone who has been involved in this work and committed to this work. The line is good, and that is what we should and must continue. Similarly, it is essential that we combine the various elements of fishing, the many industries, housing and the protection of the norm. At the same time, we will be committing people to this work that is important to us. That is why I have also set up a task force, a large-scale task force, to consider it and to review the effectiveness and appropriateness of the current fishing restrictions and, above all, to prepare for the future. The work of the working group will be completed well before the current agreements expire, and it is important that we are able to obtain future agreements at a sufficiently early stage in the future as well, so that we can maintain this current line. At the moment, we are restricted to some 2,700 square kilometres. This also illustrates how huge the water area in Saimaa is at stake. It is a huge area, and the area has increased all the time as the noose stock has grown and has spread to new areas. Now this working group is going through what is currently the situation and then sees what measures we will need in future to protect the Norma together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u159	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 25 October 2019. Now the debate continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u160	Madam President! Indeed, the referral debate on this initiative began a week or so ago, and at that time Mr Risikko presented his excellent initiative in a very comprehensive way. Firstly, the initiative is very welcome, and a few other comments on this subject: Our world and our countries are changing very quickly, as we all know. For example, we have received the word ‘honorful violence’ in our vocabulary, which is likely to be the primary focus of the teachers who have been subjected to Teachers must therefore be given the necessary knowledge and tools to identify honour violence and how to meet the victim. Social media, on the other hand, has brought new challenges to the sexual harassment of young people. Early childhood education plays a key role in addressing sexual violence. Adequate resources for preventive work must be secured, and the training of teachers must take greater account of human rights and sexual education, so that young people are clearly informed not only about their own borders but also about the rights of others. This investment is worth doing now, as this will help adults of the future to understand where the line is going.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u161	Representative Heinonen — absent, Representative Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u162	Mr President! The draft law on early childhood education provides tools to respond to the challenges of today’s phenomena and the development of the operating environment. The world is changing, and the education and education sector is the most important thing to keep up with the change. Professionals doing important work must be able to maintain and update their own skills. The Finnish Working Conditions Barometer 2017 told us that in 2017 the well-being of teachers and the management of the sector was no longer supported by the workmanship, enthusiasm and job satisfaction. There are a lot of load factors: There is not enough time to work, the ability to work is perceived to be less and less. Too many people also experience inappropriate treatment and bullying. Well-targeted continuing training is one way to maintain work ability and motivation. In-service training for teachers has unfortunately been fragmented and separated from basic education, and in Finland it has also been limited in statistical terms. The effectiveness of continuing training should be assessed. Teachers need systematic and sustainable training throughout their careers. In-service training should be developed in such a way that it is a coherent whole for different teacher and supervisor groups and supports the survival of changes in work. Representative Risiko's bill would oblige organisers and producers of early childhood education, education and training to ensure that staff's knowledge and skills are updated. The fragmentation of continuing training has also been affected in recent years by cuts in education and training. This is therefore a topical and important issue. The records of the Government Programme give a valid backrest to this issue. Among other things, the Government Programme states that the development of teachers and leadership is supported as part of the quality and equality programmes for early childhood education and basic education. In addition, the Teacher Training Forum will continue its activities and develop teacher training. The aim of the Forum is to create a continuum from teacher training to teaching and continuing training. The digital tutor model now used in comprehensive school has received positive feedback and has positive experiences. The model includes a trained teacher who is responsible for the training of other teachers also during the lessons. This model would also be very applicable to early childhood education and other thematic continuing education. However, the problem lies in the poor economic situation of municipalities. Different municipalities have different economic and, unfortunately, sometimes attitudeal capacity to carry out educational reforms, which can put teachers and pupils in different municipalities in an unequal position. One major challenge also focused on the management of teaching and education staff. At present, principals and other education leaders do not have enough time for pedagogical leadership. Schools have grown in size, and principals, for example, often do not have a vice principal to support them. In early childhood education, it is good to increase the qualifications of managers. For example, according to the evaluation of the National Education Evaluation Centre, Karvi, early childhood education plans are not being sufficiently implemented, and it would also be helpful to train staff and managers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u163	Madam President! During the last parliamentary term, I was able to meet a lot of foreign colleagues, other parliamentarians, ministers, Heads of State. Every single debate — I stress, every one — raised the issue of Finnish quality education. There was no need to explain it to anyone. It was a matter of course. When we consider how much the world is changing today — the pace of change is enormous — this initiative by Mr Risko to maintain the skills of our teaching staff and our guidance staff is well-founded, so that they can be involved in this development. I believe that this initiative includes ensuring that our children receive high-quality education, and also that our teachers remain motivated and are able to give that knowledge of themselves to our children. This previous speech by Mr Hopsu also highlighted the role of principals and supervisors. I believe that it is our enormous task for all adults who direct children and young people to make sure that we are able and, above all, that these children have an environment in which the results of learning will also come. When we talk about quality education, it sometimes forgets whether they produce learning outcomes. In Finland they are born, but if we look at a slightly wider spectrum, at the global level, we have a huge learning crisis. Fortunately, Finnish know-how, education competence, is also being exported to the world, and it is hoped that these global questions will also be answered. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u164	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for your initiative. It is very important that we guarantee opportunities for retraining and continuous learning. These are the most important industrial policy measures we can take. Knowing that the vast majority of future jobs will be created in areas where there is a need for different new skills and training, higher education, it is extremely important that we take care of continuous learning and also that there are plenty of places to start. I have received a lot of feedback on early childhood education — precisely because there is no time for that development work. Moreover, there is not enough time to retrain and learn. In many cities there is quite a close watch on filling and utilisation rates, but in many areas early childhood education also increasingly requires children to be taught language, for example, and to support a wide range of special needs, which is absolutely essential for children to be able to cope with their later learning path. It is important to create such conditions that we treat early childhood education as a path of learning as a path of comprehensive school, and that in all education the conditions for teachers are guaranteed that it is meaningful to work. The OAJ has commented on the fact that we really should see early childhood education as part of learning and the school path — including that we would limit the pursuit of profit out of early childhood education, as we have done for primary school. In my opinion, this would also be an important issue in terms of continuous learning, and it is important that we increasingly integrate the entire learning path from early childhood education to comprehensive school. We can no longer see early childhood education as such a resource-efficient place of preservation, but we must see it as learning. That is why it is so great that this government and this Parliament are now finally investing in early childhood education and seeing its value. Just recently, a motion for regrouping has been taken forward. This is precisely the kind of important, genuine political work that improves the opportunities for development there in the everyday life of early childhood education. In addition, it is of course important to set aside a separate time for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u165	Mr President! The aim of this bill is therefore to give teachers a statutory right to further training. This is what I am looking for, especially because everyone needs to develop their own skills. Teachers are one of the professional groups that is constantly changing around the work community, or so the working life is changing, and on the other hand, you have to constantly bulldoze and predict it — when those dear students are then taught that life — and you have to be constantly informed about what is going on. And it may be quite stressful if you have to take it completely from your time, so to speak. At one time, such a situation came from the social and health care staff that it seemed necessary to be up to date, as it should be, but then there was no possibility of continuing that training. Then it was made legal first for the health care staff, then for the social care staff, and I believe that this will also take place here on the education and training side, because this is already partly in early childhood education, and now it is in my own legislative initiative. I think that this would then be the solution for other educators, other teachers. Mr President! Teachers' competence is the basis on which the growth and success of our knowledge level in the whole country are based. Therefore, the skills of teachers need to be regularly updated. Currently, only early childhood education staff have a statutory right to further education. In the field of education, only managers, teachers and other staff in early childhood education are provided with the right to further education. I consider this to be an important omission and an issue which, from the point of view of equality, should rather be remedied. All teachers must have the right. My bill proposes that the organiser and producer of early childhood education, education and training should be obliged to take care of the professional competence and development of education, teaching and guidance staff and supervisors. The maintenance and development of professional skills refers to the planned training provided to these personnel during working hours, which is necessary to familiarise such personnel, to maintain and develop up-to-date professional competence in order to meet the requirements of work, work tasks and the labour market and to foreseeable changing skills needs. The current general obligation to familiarise and train employees has not been sufficient to ensure the training and continuous learning of supervisors and teachers throughout their careers. The development of the skills of education, teaching and guidance staff and supervisors must not depend on the employer. Every learner has the right to a skilled teacher. In Finland, 79 per cent of teachers believe that the development of professional competence has a positive impact on teaching. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President! This was already the subject of a preliminary debate here last Friday, and Mr Kinnunen, for example, made an excellent speech and, as the headmaster himself and the person responsible for teaching, also raised these positive points and raised the question of costs, and that is a very serious question. This bill of law has not yet calculated the costs, because I myself think of it on the very same guideline that was used in social and health care, that of course there must be a regulation first, and that means that it is all right that it is the trade unions and OKM and OPH who are wondering what regulation then specifies which continuing education is accepted and how it is to be organised and so on. And that is also the way social and health care regulations have then defined those clarifications. And that depends on how much it costs, and that is why I was unable to do the calculation. It is quite clear that it costs money, but how much it actually benefits, I think that this is, so to speak, the price that is barking. Of course, this must then be assessed in the state subsidies for basic services. When the municipalities are given these state-owned shares, it must be taken into account there, when we have already agreed, many years ago, that every time there are new tasks for the municipalities, it will be fully replaced. Which means it's gonna cost you a lot of money. But when I myself have been a continuing education teacher for over a decade, i.e. organising various continuing training courses both at the central hospital level and then at the university of applied sciences and at the second stage, I claim that there are different ways of carrying out, so to speak, completing and updating their skills. They're not always so expensive. Today there is quite a lot of this kind of electronic and this kind of thing that can also be studied remotely, and there is online learning and a variety of study opportunities, so it is not always so much, very expensive. That is why I would see that this is more beneficial than disadvantage. But, of course, there is also the possibility that this will take place step by step, that this will start and that steps will be taken, so that it will not cost so much in the first instance. I understand this economic situation well in the municipalities, and I certainly do not see that the municipalities have absolutely money. No, it is not, but I think that this is one place where we could go on a state level to support the municipalities. However, this is not only a matter of knowledge but also of well-being at work. In-service training is always worth it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u166	Madam President! Back in the day, I was planning a teacher's career myself. At the time, I studied basic education at the Oulu University School of Education as distance studies and met a person who had done his life's work as a teacher. He told me that the one who seeks to be a teacher is seeking a noble profession. Teacher's role, teacher's profession is a noble, important profession. On my part, I would also like to say, and I am in fact quite certain that a few skilled and young-minded teachers had a very strong role to play in the fact that I was also a highly educated, capable citizen, even though I did not become a teacher but went into different professions. Mr President! Thank you, Mr Risiko, for the fact that with this legislative initiative we can now discuss this important issue, on which the debate really started a few weeks ago. Even then, Mr Risiko’s statement that every learner has the right to a skilled teacher came to mind. This bill highlights the fact that it is really important for teachers to have access to further training, every teacher. According to the initiative, the current general obligation to familiarise and train employees has not been sufficient to ensure full career orientation and continuous learning of supervisors and teachers. The initiative is also in line with the objectives of our Government Programme, which agreed to increase conversion, upgrading and specialisation training in working life and that the aim is to promote continuous learning. It is important to discuss and outline how this will be done. There are different options for this, which has already been well highlighted in this debate. This debate and implementation will require all of us. I also think it is important to take into account in all the additional training, whether it be teachers, nurses, policemen, telephone salesmen or any profession, that it is often easier to take part in training to bring it to the workplace, and just as Mr Risikko said, digital services, for example, offer many opportunities for this. In our country of very long distances, and also in urgent working life, the threshold for participation in education and training could often be lowered by the fact that training could be carried out in close proximity to the workplace. It is very important that we in the whole country have good opportunities and equal opportunities to participate in professional learning and development. Various barriers to teaching and training should also be reduced. For example, in the day-to-day life of an elementary school teacher, small enough groups and well-managed special education strengthen the teacher’s ability to cope and also to learn more about his/her own activities. If working life becomes too heavy, it is only natural that participation in training also decreases when you cannot necessarily participate in it in that way. Therefore, all forms of teacher’s work and the development of the school system are very important at all levels of school. This development is both a teacher’s interest and a student’s interest and serves society as a whole. Education and culture are the cornerstones of the foundation on which our good society is built and will be built in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u167	Madam President! The Finnish education system and good learning outcomes are largely behind our highly educated teachers and the fine work they have done. They have extensive pedagogical freedom, and when I meet experts and colleagues from around the world, the work done by Finnish teachers always comes up at these meetings. I would therefore like to thank my fellow Member, Mr Risikko, for this legislative initiative, which is very important and also gives us the opportunity now to discuss how the ability of teaching staff to develop their own skills can be improved in the future. Indeed, Mr President, we still have major problems with how it is possible for teaching staff to develop their own skills during their working lives. I see that far too much still depends on how the organiser of education, often the municipality or the city, provides resources and managers with opportunities to participate in education and how teachers and teaching staff in general are even encouraged to go to training. At the same time, we also know that the new teachers who start their careers feel that they are often left quite alone in the classroom situation, and we face major challenges when it comes to how it is precisely that peer support that peer learning can then be further strengthened in school communities. Mr President! I would like to take on board in this debate perhaps a slightly different angle of income that I believe can be addressed in the context of this legislative initiative. Here, Mr Risikko made a good point of pointing out that the new Act on Early Childhood Education, which has been laid down, also provides, exceptionally, for the organiser and producer of early childhood education to be obliged to ensure that the personnel of early childhood education are involved in continuing training with sufficient skills. It is also the case that we do not have a similar obligation in legislation with regard to basic education or secondary education, whether it be vocational education or upper secondary education. However, I believe that this development in the competence of teaching staff should also be seen a little more broadly. We should consider whether we are now getting sufficient results in the euro and in the way in which we are using it together. The Finnish National Board of Education is currently supporting the organisation of continuing education for teachers and teaching staff, I think, with approximately EUR 5 million per year. These trainings are often organised specifically by university continuing training units and organisations, and it is unclear how far this training currently reaches teachers and teaching staff geographically and how comprehensive this training is. At the moment, the University of Turku plans the first ‘little norss’ in Finland, which means a day-care centre, under its own faculty of educational science. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, we have a very fine so-called normal school network in this country where university research and the last training activities can be carried directly into the everyday life of schools, and now we are making Finland's first day-care centre on the west coast, where this same principle will be introduced into the everyday life of the day-care centre, and the best and latest knowledge of the development of early childhood education will also be brought into the everyday life of the day-care centre. I throw the idea out that when, hopefully, in the coming years, such a network can be set up throughout Finland, would it be wise to give these daycare centres, i.e. ‘little normors’, including this regional or even regional development task,including the provision of supplementary training for the region’s staff and to oblige them also to providethe finalinformation on what research and training activities have been carried out,for the use of personnel throughout the region. I think that this should at least be clarified because, at the moment, normal schools are doing some of this in-service training work on the ground, but I do not have the last information on how comprehensive this work is. Madam President! In any event, I am pleased to welcome Mr Risiko's bill and the fact that during this period, this House and the Committee on Education will look closely at the way in which basic education in this country operates and how these tax clubs are effectively used, so that every member of the teaching staff in this country, regardless of their place of residence or employer, is entitled to that quality and good education even during their working lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u168	Madam President! Indeed, the legislative initiative now under discussion raises important concerns about sufficient efforts to develop the professional skills of educational, teaching and guidance staff and supervisors. Indeed, as has been said here before, the bill is also well suited to this theme of continuous learning. This initiative really shows the will to improve knowledge and the right to education. In this sense, we are on the right track. Much is already being done to develop professional skills, but of course there is room for improvement. Both principals, teachers and all educational professionals already draw up various development plans, but sometimes the problem is that they remain plans and may not be implemented. It is also a fact, as this initiative points out, that there are regional differences in the development, quality and quantity of professional skills. There are also differences between employers. They often reflect the economic situation of municipalities and the culture of education prevailing in municipalities in general. Indeed, in a tight economic situation, municipalities are saving up for the training of staff, and of course that is a problem in this area. Mr Risikko has already considered how this could be achieved in order to meet the economic potential of the municipalities. The issue of education is always a question of well-being. I know from my own experience — and there are other representatives here who know — the burden of the industry. Some teachers, including those working in education, are looking for areas that are less burdensome. Madam President! The bill really raises genuine concerns about updating skills, the legitimacy of the development of professional qualifications, the equality of staff and the well-being of the sector. In this respect, I believe that the legal initiative is based on a genuine desire to make progress in education and in the welfare of the sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u169	Madam President! I consider Mr Risiko's legislative initiative on the right to continuing education to be a very good and worthy thing. It will therefore continue the government programme and the spirit of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, for example, in a brilliant way. Teachers' environment is one of the changes from early childhood education to higher education, as has been said in this debate, and as a teacher I can fully sign. Now only an early childhood education teacher is entitled to further education, even though this should be the case throughout the school field. Nor, in my view, is the current general obligation to familiarise workers with this support sufficient to develop teaching. I also find it challenging that, for example, enough time and resources have rarely been given to the teacher's working time to develop his own work and to value his own work development during working hours, and this should be done with a lot of input. Of course, this was carried forward in a change programme for child and family services, for example, which sought to find time to develop things like this, for example in student care cases, for the protection of teachers and for the well-being of children. Let me take one example: precisely the number of children who need this special support has increased. One in six comprehensive school pupils has received special support, and less than half of the pupils who have received special support are in a special group and as much as 20% are in a fully class situation. Although I have also recently graduated as a teacher, the competence of five credits in special pedagogy is very challenging for a teacher in this environment where the share of special support is growing in children and there is a wide variety of needs. According to the Government Programme, we increase the resources and thus the number of professionals in student care, but we also need more support for teachers in this special pedagogy. Or what about when joint teaching is expected to become more common? Among the new teaching methods, joint learning is becoming more popular. I myself have ended up in this kind of dual class to teach without that education, with teacher training I didn’t get it, and in practice it also needed to learn. I hope that really this kind of skills can also be taught afterwards to our quality Finnish teachers. A third example is the school of Vääksä Solar Mountain, where emotional education has been developed with the support of the Finnish National Board of Education. This is a completely new way to approach the feelings of children and young people and to process and develop them. I can see that even such skills have not been possible in teacher training at that point.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u170	Madam President! A high-quality and versatile school path is the strength of our country. When President Barack Obama last visited Finland, he thanked the Finnish school institution for the fact that every child and young person can go as far as they can, regardless of their background. The President also appreciated and thanked the high level of teacher training. That's what we need to hold onto. Teachers need continuous learning. Learning and increasing skills must be made part of the work and different ways of doing it must be found: local and distance learning, peer support, as many options as possible. The bill highlights the personal development plans of teachers. It's what every teacher needs. The plan and the related discussion are an important part of pedagogical management and management of the competence of the institution. It is important that educational institutions have the capacity to do this, and this also requires further training. We each have memories of great teachers, important people along the path of life. I had Alli from primary school, who inspired us to count the bills as much as we wanted. He always brought new books, and we made them. And I had a middle-school Toppi, who gave me space for creativity, and we got to do plays for the whole school. For us to have the best teachers in the world tomorrow and for Finland to continue to succeed, we need continuous learning. Of course, you can learn at work, in courses, in leisure and in further training, both formally and informally. This continuous learning reform is one of the most important reforms of education, employment and social policy in the 2020s, in which the competence, supply, livelihood and needs of all working-age people, including teachers and principals, are examined as a whole. The important issues raised by this bill will be taken into account in its implementation. Thank you, Mr Risiko, for this important initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u171	Mr President! I think we're in the middle of a teacher's meeting of enthusiastic teachers. [Laughter] According to the International TALIS 2018 study, teachers experience obstacles to continuing training, including work schedules, lack of adequate training provision, high training costs and lack of support for employers. The bill highlights the right of teachers to personal development plans. The OAJ has also reminded us of the importance of introducing personal development plans. The level is currently low in Finland: only 44% of teachers and principals had a personal training and development plan.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u172	Mr President! It's so great to see that we're the teachers here this evening. I think there are some of those undergraduate Allejas here now, and whether it was Topi from secondary school or from where, and we would all like to stay in the minds of our students, just as Mr Kinnunen here so appreciatively and affectionately and affectionately spoke of these people. That's the way we'd like to be remembered. We all always remember those good teachers, even though they didn't always feel like the best of them all at the time, but afterwards they were the best of them. But for them to be the best of them, they had to keep working on the substance but also on the teaching method. Then, when you think of what the teacher’s work is today, the teacher’s work is also very much burdened by parents ’ problems, family problems, poverty, family poverty. We have heard a lot from experts in that Committee on Education that there is also a lot of problems and inequalities in residential areas, and they all burden the teacher's work. I claim — and I have always said this — that continuing education is not just about increasing knowledge and skills, but can also provide peer support or support for one’s own activities, that ‘yes, with the roots of the self’,and also make it easier to do so in a spirit. I would like to thank the users and listeners here for their good comments. I am very proud to be chairman of the Committee on Education, where we do not have such a government—opposition axis, but we are thinking specifically about the possibilities of students, studies and skills, and specifically about Finland’s best and best interests. I think that this is a very fine task for the Committee on Culture. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u173	Madam President! It's great to be in this company, but I'm one of those people who's been the learner who's been having learning problems on his own school path. I can appreciate this debate on the very direction in which I had my own problems, which I am sure would have caused the difficulty of taking that lesson but also premature gray hair for the teacher. At that time it was discovered that there were teachers who had set themselves up to teach and take possession of the different learner. I think about this in a way that teaching is a job. School is a job. The educational institution — that word in the institution is a particularly bad word, but the learning environment — is equally a job. In other parts of the world of work today, we have had decades of work learning, continuous development of skills was of paramount importance to companies, or that company has no longer worked. In this sense, the student is not like a turning song, that a new program is put on the machine and that piece is turned on, but you have to know more, you have to be aware that this society of ours is constantly changing. We will have far more challenging learners for teachers there in schools. It calls for the constant awakening of professional skills that, in fact, in the student community — and this is where Mr Risikko pointed out the problems of parents — we face challenges arising from family backgrounds and differences which, in a way, cannot go beyond the fact that you have graduated, but must have the opportunity to update your own skills, to develop in teaching work to meet the changing situation. Although it is not related to this excellent bill, the Committee on Education would like you to have a debate on this, too, on taking parents as part of the learning environment: responsible to us taxpayers who are demanding, demanding and with a magnifying glass to see how teachers are doing their work, will make this more a matter for the people as a whole to continue with good education.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u174	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw attention to this resource issue, which has not made it easy for many educational institutions in recent years to continue to learn and develop professionally. In addition to certain training days, it is important that this everyday work also allows for a return and that there is time for ideas and new information. That is why it is so important that these cuts in education have now been reversed and that further efforts have been made at all levels of education. For example, there have been severe cuts in liberal education in previous years. After all, there is also a great deal of help for hourly teachers, and especially for such work, in which there are also hourly teachers, it has been very difficult to think, under these pressures of surgery, that there will then be resources for supplementary training. To be honest, learning and continuous learning require resources, and the provision of their resources is of the utmost importance. Speaking of universities, continuous learning is also a prerequisite for life, as is the case with these other educational institutions. There have also been quite tough years in this area, i.e. to provide the best education in all schools and early childhood education, it is largely a resource issue. It is now good that this too has been taken up, although certainly not enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u175	Madam President! Without putting too much blue and white glasses on your face, I can tell you that we currently have the best educators and teachers in the world in Finland, and they are doing a great job in an ever-changing world. Representative Myllykoski well described this world where the educators and teachers are. So there are indeed many different learners who have different learning difficulties, and one might say that every child, every young person who develops and grows in his own way, would require special attention in matters relating to the education of the gifted as well as learning difficulties — the sector is very wide. One of the things that is important in what this initiative is trying to do, to increase education and well-being, is also — Mrs Myllykoski spoke of the learning environment — the condition of its learning environment. I am talking about healthy and safe facilities where the staff in the sector, not to mention children and young people, are daily. It is also right that attention should be paid to continuing education, but it is also good to mention here that there are challenges to teacher training in that when the world is racing forward, it should also be necessary to keep up with the challenges of the sector and, in a way, the pace of the modern world. But what is essential in all educational and educational work is that the staff in the field have time to be with children and young people, ask them how they are doing, and then come all the educational things where they learn to read, write or count, but they must have the time to act.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-07-ps-60.u176	Mr President! Very good speeches have been made here. Thank you, Congressman Kivisaari. Of course, all of you who are teachers really do show how it sighs. Very well-informed speeches. To Mrs Myllykoski, I would just like to say that you have also made a very touching point about the fact that you have had those learning difficulties and how you have experienced them — think: you are here. It's a great sign of the possibilities of our training. Surely there is much more to it than that, but it must have been one thing. A good example of that. You brought up the meaning of parents. Yes, we have quite a lot of that at the moment — you know who you have recently worked as a teacher — that many parents place that responsibility for education there for teachers and do not want to take the proper responsibility. This society should not be allowed to do so. Well, that's the parenting responsibility, and that's what we need to take care of. Then Mr Holopainen said this very thing, that after heavy work we must also be able to recover. That's right. You can't think like that, just like you're galloping from place to place and from education to education, when you're all reporanka, because then you can't get anything out of it. I am referring, then, to the fact that teachers' access to guidance is quite minimal. Now I'm not talking about in-service training. I'm talking about in-service guidance. They should not be confused under any circumstances, and you do not confuse them, but I want job guidance now to be separated from this continuing training, because job guidance is a completely different matter: it is precisely the care of the mind and the maintenance of its ability, especially, although continuing training will help to do so. Finally, I would like to say this finale. I know that Mrs Myllykoski has made sure that families can be with us on family day, I know that, and then we have also represented the fact that we want those Tet episodes here, I'm sure a lot of people have had a Tet episode here. I'm going to be the first teacher-tetic in history next week. He's been asking me if he could stay here for one day while he's doing the Tet show for a week, and why not? Now he's coming to see what kind of laws they make here. On one occasion a little girl, when she was allowed to ask the minister — I had Question Time with Minister Hyssälä at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health — asked there when it was family day, raised her hand and asked: ‘Is there a mandatory night in the day-care centre? “ That was the hardest question I've ever had. I said it's not legal, but it's good news. I'm sure it was said at the day care center that it was The rice has told you to sleep or ask it if it needs to. And the question came. — — — — Thank you.
