ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u2	Madam President! We had a good debate on this last week in Parliament. This is therefore a question of managing the risks posed by alien species and of how the law and also the hunting law are amended so that we can tackle the problems caused by alien species more effectively. The catching and killing of birds and mammals of foreign species would be subject to the provisions of the hunting law on the capture and killing of unsettled animals and the provisions adopted pursuant to it. Also more efficient fishing gear [Fresh—The President-in-Office] It is important that we have more effective means of dealing with the spread of alien species. They are currently causing major problems for birds and many animals that really belong to the Finnish nature, and it is good that hunters can handle this task more effectively. It is also important to ensure that hunters have sufficient qualifications and good skills to carry this task forward, and I have noticed in everyday life how valuable work, for example, is done by our hunters in the case of raccoon dogs. So the hunting card requirement will be lifted, and then a raccoon, a raccoon and a marshmallow will be added to the sledgehammer and a few others. Thus, compared to the current situation, regulation changes so that without a hunting card, five more mammals than the current species can be caught. Last week, too, this debate on gold was lively, and I personally think it is important that we also have the means to intervene in the spread of gold jackals to Finland. They cause significant harm to our natural birdlife, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u3	Madam President! As Mr Heinonen said earlier, this law and its content was the subject of a wide debate last week, and indeed the common will of all is that we should ensure that the alien species that come to Finland's nature can be effectively removed because they export the living space of our natural species and thus pose a threat to our natural species. However, I protest to this law that, just as Mr Heinonen said, when these species, particularly these larger sized mammals, are removed from the wild, it is necessary to ensure that they are carried out professionally and ethically and that, for example, species knowledge is in place, and therefore, just as the Hunting Federation itself has said, the hunting card requirement should be maintained here so that the removal can be done only by someone who has a hunting card. The second thing we had a conversation about besides the golden jackal was that if a mother walked with the young when it was nesting time, such a mother would not be shot. Otherwise, the alien species may be removed during that period when the mother or other individual walks alone without a wash, but when the chicks move with them, the hive peace would be preserved as it is today. These two objections are in line with the objections contained in the report by the Committee on the Greens.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u4	Mr President! I support Mr Mikkonen's proposal, and I would like to say that it is truly remarkable that the majority of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry went to change the government's proposal to make it more difficult, for example, to combat alien species in this particular case. It is also particularly important to take care of ethics and nature conservation aspects, and that is why the Greens' proposal is very much to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u5	Madam President! I think it is very important to take into account here the very fact that we believe that if the animal has been classified as a large animal, then a mother with a litter could be removed. In my opinion, it is irresponsible to shoot in the middle of time. I can never accept a litter being left without a mother. Somehow it seems so repulsive that even if the cubs did not follow after the mother, they would then be left in the nest to die. That is why I am absolutely in favour of the Greens' objection. Yes, we must be human enough to have nesting times and litters are litters. We cannot be such involuntary, irresponsible people that we can leave the litter without a mother even if they do not follow their mother. They will then remain there alone, and I do not think that it is human, and it should not be in accordance with the will of the Parliament that we should be able to act in such a way that we can starve the litter.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u6	Madam President! It is indeed important to combat alien species effectively. We have unfortunate experiences of alien species that have invaded Finland's nature and at the same time caused damage to our own species. That debate on gold jackal last week was rather confusing when the original position of the Ministry of Agriculture in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry had been changed so that this gold jackal would not be regarded as a game animal but as an alien species. In this respect, many experts, including hunters, were in line with its original position, and I myself went before the vote to Mr Levä to ask him what is the right view here and, yes, he was still in favour of the original proposal. Let us hope that, in any event, we will be able to combat the invasion of this golden jackal into the Finnish environment, and I think that it is time to monitor this carefully and, if necessary, the future Parliament must be prepared to take up any possible legislative change if this decision, which has now been taken in the case of gold jackal, proves to be a failure.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u7	Mr President! I myself am a little concerned about the atmosphere that has been in this debate, for example, that the expertise of the Hunter Federation has not been sought. Some discussions even showed some indifference: If you hunt a species of mammal, let the cubs die of starvation. Personally, I think that you should be able to say straight and honest that you have to find the whole litter. However, if we are to think about how we Finns view different animal species and mammals in general, we want to treat animals well and humanely, and if we have an alien species that we do not want to let in — which is quite clear — then we can also do it in a human and competent way. And I understand that this is exactly what the Hunting League has also stressed, that it is recognised that species are not hunted or caught by the wrong species, and — this is my personal opinion — if an animal can be stopped without hunter knowledge, then it will easily become a little so-called. Kicked race, that we can then leave with any group, so to speak, to remove them, and I hope that at least no violence or unnecessary suffering will be caused. Personally, I think that the treatment of animals should always be human, and I wonder why many representatives seem even a little ridiculous that let's go ahead and forget all this nonsense about animal welfare. I think that every nation is measured by how it treats the defenceless, whether it is an animal, an old man, a child. For we measure it, because that is what we are here for, that we speak for those who cannot.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u8	Madam President! I must say, as the joke says, that so am I, that we must now agree with what Mrs Mere has said. Yes, we must take into account that humanity in this legislation, and we cannot be so insensitive here on the side of the legislation that we should not take into account what is the human suffering that we may then be doing on this matter of alien species. But now two things have to be distinguished: the golden jackal is a matter of its own, and then this alien matter is a different matter in a way. I would very much like to be able to take the view that we would not allow puppies to be left to die, or that a litter that is on its way after its mother could be shot out of it. I can't accept that. For foreign species, the most effective and best prevention is that it takes place before the breeding season. And there'll be plenty of that nesting season in the fall. That does not mean, for example, that only a raccoon can be hunted in winter, because, according to the current interpretation of the game law, we have a certain time limit.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u9	Mr President! This government proposal to manage the risks of alien species is important. I myself come from Hirvensalmi, and my brothers are still active in hunting, and I am in that firm faith, and my experience is that Finnish hunters are very experienced and take such things into account as what these concerns were raised here about the fact that the puppies would then be left without a mother. Ever since childhood, hunters have gone hunting with their fathers and setts and really know the animal’s life cycle and behavior well. Even Congressman Myllykoski, I could give a good example of my childhood: when our fox terrier killed the fox mother, our father brought those little fox boys home to raise and they became pets for us. Now you can tell me what happened back in the '70s. That's where we had them as pets, like dogs. All the same, I support this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u10	Mr President! I agree that the Finnish hunter is very responsible. The representatives of Meri and Myllykoski raised this point that can the mother shoot if the small puppies are there. I think they gave a very good speech. I agree that you couldn't shoot your mother if you didn't. Yes, it is an inhuman act to leave the puppies starving and dying. I wish there was some humanity in this. I believe that we must also take the issues put forward by the Hunting League seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u11	Madam President! To the above-mentioned statement: It is, of course, a human description of the fact that fox cubs have been taken into care since then, but it also needs to be taken into account that we have legislation. Under the law, we do not have the opportunity to take as domestic animals those who live in the wild, so in that sense I do not think that such... I am counting on it, and there has been a debate here that there should be an opportunity to think about how to deal with these puppies. That's just not possible under our legislation. Yes, we must take responsibility for the fact that if we want to take care of that biodiversity and balance, then we must agree — and I believe that the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry has been quite in agreement — that alien species do not belong to Finland’s natural environment. When they destroy our own natural game stock, our waterbirds and our nesting gamebirds, the alien species that is here does not belong in the nature of Finland. In part, they have been imported by humans in the form of grooming and are popular because of furs. At some point we also had a very fine fur animal and then a mink, which is a huge pest, especially in the coastal regions, so that our natural birds that come to nest here suffer from the fact that there is an alien species that has been brought here by man himself. And it's got to be steep. If we want this own national diversity to be preserved in this country, we must be able to prevent any alien species brought here by man that reduces our diversity of ecology. We must have the opportunity to intervene in such a way that we can secure here the conservation of the species that we have naturally.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u12	Mr President! I have to be more specific about what I said earlier that I did not mean to encourage what had happened accidentally in the '70s when the fox terrier had killed the mother and then my father did not want to kill those puppies. At least he did this, but of course I do not encourage and stress the responsibility that our hunters have today, that they do not kill mothers with puppies, and if this happens, that the mothers die, then we will see to it that the puppies are also killed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u13	Therefore, Madam President, I do not think that hunting in the breeding season is appropriate. In some other way, we must ensure that we do not breed alien species. And as I have already said in my previous speeches, hunting and the increase in alien species must be regulated in such a way that it does not happen during the breeding season, because I think it is unreasonable and inhumane if we are hunting in such a way that we starve the cubs into their nests or then shoot a dam with a litter after them. However, we must have that much humanity as representatives. In other words, even if we do not want alien species here, humanity must be such that we implement the diversity of alien species and our own natural diversity, we defend matters related to Finland's nature here. Then the gold jackal is your business. It has little to do with this, but it has to do with the subject. I would like us to consider this, because this breeding time, which is in the current legislation, should be respected.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u14	Madam President! With regard to this area of humanity, we compare it with how much hunting time remains after its calming season: I know that when it starts on 1.5. and ends on 20.8., it still leaves a huge amount of time for these small beasts and usually all these animals to catch. Usually the hunters are so careful about the job that when they start, they start it with a real bang then 20. day, i.e. efficiency is enough for that. In most cases, it produces good results in terms of good catches, small predators, and the destruction of these harmful animals. In view of that, I think this bill is all right.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u15	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u16	Madam President! I suggest that the Parliament approves the statements made in the protest of the Finns-Finnish people, which in total contain five paragraphs and which in a broad way safeguard the individual rights of citizens. In short, I would like to put to the vote the proposals for statements that we object to.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u17	Mr President! After all, from the outset the Finns have opposed this entry into force of the Arms Directive. It makes it difficult for hunters, gun enthusiasts, gun collectors and sports shooters to operate categorically. Similarly, the draft laws also make it difficult for reservists to operate. The legislative proposals also make regulation difficult to understand. The Finns of Peru already made these changes at the first reading of the motion, and now there is a good presentation of the statements. These proposals are well-founded, and I am very much in favour of this proposal by Mr Eerola.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u18	Madam President! As has been pointed out above, this amendment to the law has come from this Arms Directive, and its starting point has been the concern that weapons would not be widely used by people and, above all, such dangerous weapons would not be distributed but controlled with sufficient precision. Well, of course, now that this has been applied to Finnish legislation, it has been taken into account that we are in such a different situation than many other countries in the European Union, that our defence is based on the reserve army. So here is an attempt to find such a solution that could take this into account, and this is what has been put on this sort of reserve derogation. It has now been based on the broadest possible perspective, not that those who have a wartime investment have an opportunity for that weapon, but more broadly so that everyone has been involved. When the debate itself took place, I too in the Committee on Defence would have been inclined to see that I would rather have left this narrower definition. All in all, it is clear that it is necessary to closely monitor what this legislative amendment means, what it means in terms of arms permits, and also to observe that weapons do not fall into the wrong hands or into the illegal market. The police department and the Parliamentary Ombudsman also raised concerns about how we can ensure that arms and arms permits are not too easily obtained, and it is good to take care of this and look at it. And I believe that this concern, which has been raised in the course of the legislative process, will be taken very carefully into account. And it's not automation, for example, that if you join the Reservist Association, then you automatically get a gun permit, but you actually look at and make sure that the hobby is active. I would now like to make a proposal to this bill, which reads as follows: ‘The government is required to monitor the change in the number of arms licences and to monitor whether or not it is likely to end up in the wrong hands and illegal markets. The monitoring must be reported to Parliament during the next parliamentary term.”
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u19	Madam President! We made a motion in this regard and tried to try to limit the number of weapons that are kept in the weapons lockers during the peace period, precisely the number of highly dangerous weapons for these refresher exercises, to a small extent, and the aim would be that the amount needed for training would be the amount of weapons of war. The police government also expressed its concern about the fact that the more we have in the weapons lockers of these dangerous weapons, the more reason criminals are taking possession of them, and so they become these illegal weapons, which are even more dangerous when they are used by such people as they are unpredictable. In my opinion, this proposal for a statement made by Mr Mikkose is very good and supports our proposal, and that is why I support this proposal for a statement made.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u20	Mr President! In fact, Mr Mikkonen has already well described where these changes in the law are based, that is to say, the EU Arms Directive. I believe that the ministry and committees have done a good job to ensure that we received the reserve derogation and that otherwise the amendments to this law were in line with the conditions in Finland. One strong pillar of our defence, among other things, is general military service, and it is therefore important, for example, that reservists also engage in firearms sport. It is important that weapons should not fall into the wrong hands, and then the fact that, if they have been in the right hands in themselves, but in the life of that person, that mental health or other circumstances change, then it is important to get them out. I am very shocked when I saw a bit of a woman lying on the ground, shot in the back, in that New Zealand, shouting “help, help”,‘help me,help me’and a right-winger terrorist shoot him coldly into the country. Weapons must not fall into the wrong hands.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u21	Madam President! Yes, it does quiet down what this news of the past few days has been. Personally, I think that the reservists should have what should be in the weapons closet for the needs of the wartime if the war is to take place. But this unlimited possibility of being dangerous firearms does mean that we have a chance through crime, terrorism makes it possible for dangerous firearms to be obtained by those who are ill with mental health or who have other purposes to shock society or from their own point of view to do something destructive in society. We've got to get a line on that. In that sense, I agree with the representatives of Semi and Mikkone that we should have control over how many there are. If it has its own purpose in defence of the country, I am in favour of it, but the fact that there is more in the gun cabinet than there is in need of it is certainly very negative, because this information is usually leaking to those criminal organisations or to those who wish to upset the peace of society, targeting those who can obtain these tools to upset the peace of society.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u22	Mr President! There has been an interesting debate which, of course, is based on the fact that all debaters have the objective of improving the security of society. That is an excellent, worthwhile thing. I myself think about it from the point of view that when a police officer grants permission to acquire and possess a firearm, it is always done after careful consideration. Each applicant for a permit has to justify why he wants a gun and must have a purpose — so-called extra firearms are not very many in the weapons lockers. When the security of society is improved, I personally think that the ultimate starting point may be this: if there is a person who deliberately wants to harm another, I think, without being in any way a health professional, that there has been some change in the mental health of this person, and if so, I would go on to improve safety by increasing such mental health services, preventing the exclusion of persons, preventing the idea that a person should feel hatred for society and then possibly vent this hatred, channel this hatred by using firearms against innocent people. In my opinion, safety is improved precisely by improving mental service, by improving mental health services. And then another very big problem I think is that we are talking about licensed firearms at the moment, but we should also turn the focus on unauthorised firearms. We are constantly getting serial automatic weapons from Central Europe, and when we have this border control that is absolutely non-existent, I would say that I do not have the resources at that border to control what is coming to Finland, so there are really firepower, dangerous military weapons in the black market, and I believe that we should improve security precisely by starting to monitor more effectively what is being imported to Finland. Who brings firearms to Finland and for what purpose? I would argue that safety would be greatly improved if we could get these unauthorized firearms off those borders, military weapons. We have already tightened up our own country's firearms legislation, I might say, almost to the pin, so that we can no longer improve security by tightening our own legislation. Now we have to go elsewhere to get those security aspects, and I would like to go for them, specifically through tighter border control and more mental health work, so that no one would have to deal with a neighbor in such a way as to want to harm their fellowman with a firearm or something else. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u23	Madam President! Mr Hongisto, as a representative of the police, gave a good and competent speech on the means needed in addition to such legislation, so as not to put weapons into the hands of the wrong people who want to do things that none of us wants to do in this country. I must say about this Arms Directive when it started to be negotiated at the time of 2016 that I am pleased with the size of the committee dealing with this issue, the way our ministers conducted the matter at the end of the EU, the way our officials operate. That we finally received a unanimous decision in the large committee on the position of defence of Finland's national interests, which eventually went through quite a lot with the EU in the negotiations. In other words, the EU Commission's original proposal for the Arms Directive would have virtually ended the present form of national defence capacity in Finland. This was the starting point that we had to get at the end of these EU partners, frankly, that we have our own defence solution, which is not in the same way in other countries and that must be taken into account in this directive, and that was finally achieved. If this had gone through with that original idea, I think it would have been in fact contrary to the EU Treaty in the sense that it would have had a significant impact on our national defence solution. I'm glad we found an understanding here. I would therefore like to thank the various parties involved, including the chairman of the Administrative Committee who left the Chamber, Mr Eerola, for the work done by the Administrative Committee. In particular, I would like to thank Mr Savola and Mr Kopra, who, in addition to our blue representative, Mr Jussi Niinistö, did a great deal of work to ensure that it was precisely this key issue with regard to the Arms Directive that was put in place, that is, this national defence solution. That is something we can be satisfied with. [Call for the Cape]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u24	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Elo and Mr Hongisto, for your very good contributions. I have noticed – well, it may be that the elections also have an impact on it – that people are quite silent, however, to talk about what all this is based on, even the EU Arms Directive, which has been the cause of its concerns. Of course, there is a great deal to do with these weapons when it is said that they do not fall into the wrong hands. Yes, sometimes those hands can change in such a way that man is radicalized so that the weapon becomes the one with which one wants to destroy. That is why I say that we should not belittle hate speech at all. It does not affect the common sense person in any way, but we just have people who, when disturbed, do cruel things. That's why I wish it was taken seriously. There has been a lot of criticism from the police about online police activity that they are simply investigating some hate speech, although we actually know that crimes such as sexual crimes in Oulu are specifically crimes on the Internet. This is where the online police play an extremely important role in preventing them, both for the Finns who commit the most sex crimes in terms of numbers, and for foreigners who, in relative terms, are the most guilty. offences. But, to return to the crimes committed with a gun, I would like to emphasise once again that hate speech should not be underestimated at all — given and bearing in mind the events in New Zealand.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u25	Mr President! The Commission presented its proposals in the aftermath of the Paris terrorist attacks in autumn 2015. The Commission justified its proposal in a general order and referred to recent terrorist attacks. However, illegal weapons smuggled into the EU have been used in terrorist attacks and are not affected by legislation. The fact that we are going to blackmail legal weapons, at least not the terrorist attacks that have taken place in the EU, has no direct effect, that is, if we really want to influence illegal weapons, that means border control. For some reason, the EU is allergic to border controls in order to maintain such an illusion of an open society, but society can be open when the borders of a country are well controlled. After that, it will be safe inside and transparency will work. I would also like to thank the MEP, Jussi Halla-aho, who worked hard on this weapons directive. The government proposal is also a little better than it would have been in the first place. That is still not enough, and I therefore support the proposal by Mr Eerola, chairman of the Administrative Committee. At the end of the day, I would like to thank Mr Hongisto once again. He's on the right track. What we need in addition to border control is mental health, to help people get help when they need it. In this way, it will increase its well-being and security. I hope that now a great many will support this presentation by the Finns, because it is the best for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u26	Madam President! The representative, Mr Hongisto, drew attention to the right thing, to what weapons come to us across the border and how many of them come to us, and that is a question of resources, how the border guard can respond and deal with these issues. However, this bill, which we are about to have here, is, in a way, legalising the placing of the number of dangerous weapons in weapons lockers in Finland, and the possibility to which the Police Government has drawn attention is that they are being stolen there, and the more opportunities there are, the more difficult it is to control them when police resources are limited, and the greater the chance that those legal weapons will fall into illegal hands, and then they will be illegal weapons, and they will be extremely dangerous illegal weapons. That is why we feel that it would have been better for security to have remained in the original proposal, namely that the amount of weapons — and what can be invested in the reserve — is the necessary amount of wartime and would not be raised as big as this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u27	Madam President! I must say that this problem is here as it is inside — how criminals can get legal weapons for illegal use. It has been happening for decades and will continue to happen, and if we increase the number of legal weapons, it means that criminals will have access to illegal weapons for their own use. I am not entirely convinced whether these two can be equated with the fact that, if we have people with terrorist intent in this country, will they bring weapons over border control for their own purposes or will they acquire weapons here from us, from our own weapons cabinets. In that sense, what Mr Semi has just said is that it is important for the defence of the country, for the reservist and for hunting that the necessary weapons should be registered and there should be as much as they need to be. I'm sure we won't be able to close the borders in such a way that if you come here with an Isis who wants to bring firepower weapons into this country by smuggling... They're two different things. It is now a question of how, at national level, we are trying to prevent the possibility that we will be able to end up in the hands of illegal weapons. That is what I think is at issue here, and in that sense I agree with that interpretation of the Police Administration, and I will try to compromise Mr Ruoho in the sense that we must have regulated and controlled overall. And I agree with Mr Hongisto' s view that we should have mental health services, but the priority is that mental health services should be secured, not that we have the possibility that those who do not receive them can have free access to weapons. That's our little difference of opinion. I agree with Mr Hongisto that we must concentrate on these absolutely.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u28	Mr President! When mentioned here about the terrorist attacks in Paris, they also showed that the asylum system can be used by terrorists. After all, the coalition, under the leadership of our Minister for the Interior, has already begun to work towards a change in the asylum system to seek asylum outside the EU. I would like to remind you that this Norwegian terrorist, Breivik, had referred to the Manifesto of the Halla-Ahos in their own places, perhaps in their explanatory statement. That you don't think, you don't remember — terrorists, whether they're extreme rightists or some sort of fundamentalists, Islamists, are all just as shocking criminals. Customs and Raja are doing an extremely good job and are exploiting modern technology. I was thinking here about Mr Huhtasaari's speech when he sees that the borders are open, but it is extremely difficult in practical work to completely close any borders. In 2006 there was a war between Israel and Lebanon and the Israelis claimed that weapons come through the Syrian border and such. We went to investigate all illegal and legal entry routes, and if there is a desire to import weapons, illegal weapons, then we will succeed. If you think there are thousands of containers on a freighter in seaports alone, and even though there were 7,000 soldiers down the border at that moment, there's always something you can... Drugs are being transported on mules and everything. I would like that debate to think about the concrete conditions, and as we all know, especially for a small export-driven Finland, the total closure of borders is even completely detrimental to business and society.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u29	Mr President! I will pick up where Mr Ruoho stopped, from border control, from closing the borders. It is true that the staff of Customs and the Border Guard are doing an extremely good job, extremely hard work with the resources given to these officials. I would therefore suggest that in the next period, when we consider the appropriations for internal security and border control, we should also take these scarce resources into account and try to increase them. Firearms are certainly not the only things that are swept across the Finnish border, there are drugs and others. It is hardly the intention of anyone to make Finland into a so-called thermos bottle that this is completely isolated from the rest of the world, it is not in anyone's interests, but it is important that we allocate resources to border control to realistically think that we can better and more effectively control the goods that are being imported to Finland and also what is being exported from Finland. I appreciate Mr Myllykoski's professionalism very high, and here I was just paying attention when Mr Myllykoski said in his own speech that, if I understood correctly, there are two things he thinks are different: whether a firearm is used for terrorist purposes or whether it is found in a Finnish weapons locker, and this may be the case with a sudden head. However, I myself am a little closer to this from the other angle of arrival and I am thinking of this from the point of view of the victim, the person who faces the gun in front of the barrel, i.e. the wrong side of the gun: I see that it certainly does not matter whether the gun has come to Finland across the border or whether it has been stolen from one of Finland’s weapons cabinets — that instrument is just as dangerous for this victim. And if the victim gets an injury from the gun, it doesn't matter if it comes from a smuggled weapon or if it's stolen from Finland. Mr Semi said in his own speech that the fewer firearms in the weapons locker, the smaller the risk that they will fall into the hands of criminals, and this is quite obvious — if we talk about the statistical fact, then so it is. But I will continue to say that in Finland, arms legislation is already very strict and the preservation and storage of firearms is regulated very carefully. Now, of course, it is up to gun owners to store and store firearms. And I remember that sometimes, when this matter was discussed the previous time, it was said that the police should monitor them more, I said that police resources were not enough to search home and inspect firearms. Those checks shall be carried out in connection with other domestic jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u30	Madam President! I have to say, Mr Hongisto, that we are exactly in agreement. We cannot disagree that the person who is the victim of a gun is in no different position, depending on where the weapon is from, whether it has been imported from across the border, stolen or even used on his own licence.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u31	Mr President! When the name was mentioned, I would say here that, when Mrs Myllykoski said that she agrees with me, we have very few points on which we disagree with Mrs Myllykoski. Among other things, this proves that once again we found each other. Thank you, Mr Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u32	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. At first reading, Parliament agreed with the proposal of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to reject the bill contained in the citizens' initiative. Parliament's statement is now decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u33	Madam President! After all, this is about the hospital in Vaasa, but with a certain connection to social and health services and their renewal, I thought that the President would also allow a small debate on the subject. I have spoken in this Chamber on countless occasions in favour of the reform that the Sipilä government was pursuing. The reason for this was, of course, that the Coalition Party had agreed on the basis of the Government Programme, and then, among other things, in late autumn 2015, together with the Centre Party and the Finns of Finland, clarified this reform. When this war reform of Sipilä’s government drove into the wall, the consensus on what had been agreed, dissolved and we moved to our more original ideas in the assembly. So we assume that there is no need for a major, huge change in the system, and it has been seen that in this Parliament such a horse will not even be able to pass. We believe that, on the basis of the current municipal system and joint municipal authorities, social services should be reformed, focusing primarily on the pain points that are identified together, such as access to care, inefficient care chains, inadequate preventive work in child protection, the problems of care for the elderly and so on. We believe that municipalities and joint municipal authorities are making the best efforts to secure the services of their own residents, and we believe that with appropriate incentives and appropriate cooperation, on this basis, progress would be made. In several provinces, for example, joint municipal authorities of the size of regions have already been formed, which include specialised medical care, primary health care and social services within the same joint municipal group. Still, we assume that different solutions are needed in different parts of the country. We must say clearly that we do not want any new government between the state and the municipalities, we do not want new political institutions, we do not want new officials, we do not want new elections and, above all, we do not want new taxes. I understand that the demars want new taxes, but I have no idea how the demars have now left these things for the new provincial government to set up in this country, even though they call it a social welfare municipality and would concentrate on it just for the sake of the war. Everything else I described above would be coming. That was to be asked of Mr Rinte, but unfortunately he has already left the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u34	Madam President! Of course, it was unfortunate that the vote on Vaasa went as it did, but that is now closed. In this context, when Mr Zyskowicz opened this debate on social issues, there are a few ideas to be put forward. First of all, the reason why this was the case with this regional war reform can be found there at the beginning of November 2015, when, at the Government Castle, we were considering how to take this matter forward, and the coalition called for a broad freedom of choice, along with the excessive reform of the regional government required by this centre, i.e. in parallel with the whole package. At the time, it drove to careers that had no chance of surviving with honour, and then, many times in the Constitutional Committee, it was knocked out, and the end result is what it is now. If we had progressed according to the original Sipilä Government's programme, on a three-step model, we would have provinces and we would have this reform on the way. The financial patterns would already be quite certain and the implementation is well advanced, and some more freedom of choice would have been obtained on the basis of studies, studies and experiments, if possible, or at least available. But this did not happen, and the responsibility for it lies, of course, with the government itself, which made these mistakes in rejecting its programme. So, what's the plan from now on? I think there are two options: For example, on the basis of 18 regions, we can build a regional war, not take on any other role in the world, but bring together social and health care and, above all, primary health care and special medical care in each region, thus ensuring integration, securing services and allowing savings to be made, or thus reducing costs. It is also possible to organise elections and funding, that is to say, out of the municipalities, in this model, if there is a regional war in this way, and then, on the other hand, there would be this regional tax which would then be able to place the responsibility for financing the same ones who decide on services. The second option is, of course, to proceed with this voluntary joint municipal assembly model and then to rebuild the system, to reassemble these. The objectives are largely realised, but the problem remains that this remains the economic responsibility of the municipalities, and the ability of the municipalities to carry it does not stand up to it at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u35	Madam President! Sote is like an uncle who's a little more powerful than a man, who's a mess at every party and everyone knows him. This is a political situation in which the 15 years have been twisted and still have not been completed. I would like to thank Mr Zyskowicz for his honesty, who said what has been the negotiating position, what has been the line of their party and what is the line now. In the same breath, however, it must be said that Mr Zyskowicz's speech proves that the compromise proposal that the government jointly promoted and in Parliament took forward was not a model of the coalition, as we heard about this, even though there have sometimes been other claims about the demos. What should now be done most importantly is to learn from what has been done over the last 15 years. My view, too, as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for a couple of years, is that it is a rather narrow interpretation of what any social model can go through. It is the most important thing that the model should be one that can eventually also be brought to the finish line, i.e. it needs the commitment of all parties, and it should be noted that all previous preparations and take it into account. On the other hand, there is no reason to break down functional health services, such as maternity clinics and special care, which has also been learned here. I disagree with Mrs Zyskowicz on the organisation of social and health services: it should be in larger areas than municipalities where the power is exercised by elected decision-makers. As far as this freedom of choice is concerned, private actors in health and social services are a necessary part, but it is precisely as a public host, as a private servant — a moderate increase in freedom of choice, for example, by increasing the use of service vouchers and personal budgeting. The right to taxation in social areas should also be clarified, considered, but not increased as a result. Of course, as a representative of the City of Espoo and a representative of the City of Espoo, the important question is the status of Uusimaa, Helsinki. Yes, a separate solution should be considered here for such a populous region, it is quite clear, but I still stress that this interpretation of the Constitution is so narrow that any model is presented, my first question as a citizen would be that, if this has not been done for 15 years, what credibility is there for any party now — all the parliamentary parties have been involved in this — to suggest that, yes, this model is the one that will certainly pass through. We need that parliamentary cooperation now, and that is why I regret the fact that, although it was suggested that even before the elections we should sit down and look at these big lines, for example, the Social Democrats, Sanna Marin, knocked this out. I wonder why.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u36	Madam President! The representative Kankaanniemi properly described the options and challenges ahead. In my opinion, one important lesson to learn from the attempts at social reform in this parliamentary term and also in the last parliamentary term is that, with the current strict interpretations of the Constitution — which, in my opinion, are too strict — the Constitutional Committee and its experts, of course, are imposing a major change in the system. For example, when Mr Kankaanniemi stated here that funding would be made available from the municipalities — it would obviously come through the state — there would be a provincial tax, I would ask whether the future government, with these elements, would be able to make one of the most important administrative renovations in the history of this country — which it would mean — that would be interpreted in the Constitutional Committee. I believe that these interpretations of the Constitution have become far too strict. It must be borne in mind that this is precisely an interpretation, because the Constitution itself does not, of course, say anything about the provinces, not a word about the funding of the provinces, not a word about customer plans and so on, about these issues, which were brought down by a number of the models of social and regional reform which were discussed in the Constitutional Committee. In the latter model, which was highlighted by Mr Kankaanniemi, he saw the big problem that the municipalities do not have the money. This is true, and I personally think that the economic problem that municipalities have in organising social services is just driving municipalities into closer cooperation, joint municipal authorities with other municipalities. I must be honest with you that neither the model that we promoted in support of the Sipilä Government would have brought new money into this whole, on the contrary, the aim was and is still to curb the increase in costs. In my opinion, Mr Elo very well pointed out the freedom of choice that is at the heart of this moment. When no one is present for the demersals and no one is present for the greens, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, it is necessary to ask the Greens at what stage you are enthusiastic about this regional government. You have made public your own doctrines that the provincial government should receive: new government, new political institutions, new elections, new taxes. When did the Greens get excited about these?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u37	Madam President! When this citizens' initiative was discussed in the Parliamentary Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the committee was a professional in its field, Dr. Pekka Puska, born in Vaasa. At least I appreciate the representative, Dr. Puska's medical expertise to a very high level. According to the information I have received, it was the representative, Dr. Puska, who had made a very strong contribution in the committee to the fact that the committee decided to leave the post. It is written: ‘The Government requires that the Government still examines the lower-level emergency services of the Vaasa Central Hospital Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! I do understand this in such a way that the effort is to oblige the next government, and when the matter was discussed on Friday, at least to me, and I believe that for the people of the constituency of Vaasa and especially the people of the coast, this is a huge deal. This is a matter of enormous importance, and I was surprised that it was put to the vote in Parliament in a situation where we do not even have a so-called government, but we have a supply minister, and when it is dealt with, I understand that it is not enough just to approve or reject this citizens' initiative, but it involves a few laws. And in my opinion, it would be much better if, when these laws are considered and considered in the committees whether they will come into force or not, they will not come into force until these laws have also been brought to the opinion and the report in those committees, the matter would be ready and ripe to be decided. I therefore think that this effort is excellent, because it obliges the next government to raise this issue in a situation in which we really have a government in the country which is also able to make big decisions. At that point, when the matter is resolved as a whole, we will consider these legal changes and then the fate of this hospital in Vaasa. I am confident that those who will sit here in the next term in the Chamber and who are in the government will follow this momentum left by this present Parliament. It is, as it were, an inheritance that obliges the next Parliament and the next government to act on this matter, which is important to us bottomers. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u38	Madam President! Now, with this fall of the mud, this little auction has emerged, with whom the model is to be offered for the next term of government. The Finns have not stuck to any strict model, but we are prepared to assess the situation and take careful account of what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has said on various occasions in relation to this dossier. I do agree with Mrs Zyskowicz very much that this interpretation of the Constitutional Committee — that is the interpretation of the Constitution, and there is no clear letter — is extremely narrow, and one must be able and dared to say that it might be necessary to consider whether the use of reason is also possible in the framework of the Constitution. While I deeply respect the Constitution and regard it as a defender of people’s interests, rights and that is an important starting point, when a private interest and a common interest may collide in some situation, one has to wonder whether its common interest must always yield to the interests of the individual. So we have a very individualistic constitution in this regard. But as far as the follow-up is concerned, I presented the two models in my speech just now. In other words, I believe that it will be on the basis of what has been prepared, where much preparatory work has been done, a regional model. The whole province name could be rejected. After all, these regions, which have now been 18, no longer correspond to the traditional provinces. There have never been so many in Finland. Let's talk about areas, for example, and that would be awfully convenient: Pirkanmaa region and Central Finland region and so on. There the aim must be to have decision-makers who are directly elected by the people for things that are important to people and which are of enormous economic importance. And since the services are decided by the decision-makers elected by the people, they should also have financial responsibility, and thus this regional tax could be the goal, perhaps in the longer term, but still. In other words, elections and taxes, but we too do not think that the tax rate should rise, although it may gradually increase, given, for example, the issue of the elderly, which we are already facing problems and where needs are growing. These kind of growth service tasks should not be confused with this in the coming season. And the diversity of regions should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u39	Madam President! With regard to the speech by Mr Kankaanniemi, I would like to start by saying that quite a few years will have to wait for these pain spots to be tackled again if we really start to create a new administration between municipalities and the state, with elections with new bodies and taxes. And do we really have a long time ago in the next parliamentary term, who will then be here, first, know, three years to file these matters and then try to get it through Parliament? Personally, I would suggest that these pain spots — such as access to treatment, its problems in different municipalities and across the country, as well as the dysfunctional care chains, the very flagrant omissions of the elderly care system, the inadequate supervision of the municipalities involved and so on — are such that they should be tackled quite soon, or very soon, and therefore, I think that it would be more justified to start on the basis of the current situation. There wasn't one of the demos here, and unfortunately, I don't think he's here right now. For example, I would have liked to hear from President Rinne that, in this Chamber, when the Social Democrats, such as Mr Paatero and Mr Kiljunen and other demars' war experts, have spoken very warmly in favour of the Eksote model, for example, and when the assembly is now pushing for this, that we should move forward on the current basis, according to local authorities and associations of municipalities and associations of local authorities of the size of any future region, so how can it be that the demos have completely rejected this model that they have previously praised and are now driving the new administration and the new political institutions and the new elections and new taxes? Of course, I have also changed my position here, but I have argued that when things have been agreed in this government together, as is always the case with compromises, then when compromises have been made, it is part of defending them together, the joint agreement. But demarit is completely free to decide on their own model when they have not made any common compromise with other parties. The same goes for the green ones. Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, although present, did not reply to my question that at what point the Greens have fallen in love with this provincial government. If you do not want to answer it, at least answer why don't you listen to your own best experts, who sit in Helsinki City Council, City Mayors of Helsinki, Tampere, Turku and other cities. I understand that there the Green Social Security experts, such as Sanna Vesikan, Deputy Mayor of Helsinki, are firmly opposed to the new provincial administration that you are now driving.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u40	Madam President! Mr Zyskowicz, like many others, always talks about creating a new level of government when it comes to this regional government. I don't think it's quite like this, honestly when we're talking. For example, I now take my own province of Central Finland: There are 23 municipalities there. There is one hospital district where all the municipalities belong. There is already one level of regional government. Then there is the province union, to which the same 23 municipalities belong. Since then, Central Finland is divided into seven primary health care areas, two of which may be independent municipalities and then 21 municipalities cooperate in different ways – there are co-operation areas, there are joint municipal authorities, there is a joint municipal authority and there are agreements. So this is the model of governance we have, and they are all independent legal persons. For example, these seven primary health care units all have a manager, all have a leading doctor, all have other dental and other functions with their own managers, their own bureaucracy, their own accounts and their own councils and so on. I calculated that if this county war had been carried out according to this government's proposal, 31 governing bodies in Central Finland would have been dissolved and the officials representing them could have been dissolved or relocated and would have become one single organisation with one director, one council, one government and three four committees. All these existing organisations exist and information does not pass between them, because they are different legal persons, cannot be used flexibly by doctors who are employed by different employers, no staff, no premises, no equipment, no procurement, and no service integration when everyone is separated. In this respect, it is extremely sensible to bring together the services of special care and primary health care, in particular, by region. It is then a different matter as to whether, for example, care for the elderly will be taken there from the social point of view. I'm not sure it's wise to take it, but it may be, and it could be decided locally. Child welfare may need to be taken, because it is extremely heavy for an individual municipality — when there are few of them in the municipality, those decisions are difficult to make when the expertise is inadequate and so on. But then these growth services, which I mentioned earlier and which are now mostly elysed, should not be dragged into this now, but should be brought together as soon as possible, the greatest challenge of all, namely health care. And it is not so difficult — there is a tremendous amount of work done in all the provinces.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u41	Madam President! I did not intend to take the floor, but I would like to say a few words inspired by Mr Kankaanniemi. There has been a fierce debate in the field of social and health care where the system should be developed. It is clear that the new millennium must also be reached by this group, i.e. by health planners and those who work there. Everyone is doing a good job today, but we have to have the courage to reform our systems. It is not the fault of the health workers or nurses or doctors that we have this system. We politicians must reach the level of bold reform in our own decisions. In these new models, which have now been the subject of public debate in recent weeks since the fall of the swamps, I have wondered when a new model of municipalities and what has become. All kinds of models are hurling in the air so that you can't keep up with it anymore, which is the system. But I've been wondering that no one has... As Mr Kankaanniemi quite well analysed this situation, we have a huge amount of bureaucracy built around it and if we build yet another level of bureaucracy here, that means more officials, more administrators, more and more designers, more coordinators and more and more people who are actually working there with the sick and the elderly. In other words, this system, this reform, which the government has already put forward, started by dismantling all the other old bureaucracy. But what I have heard in the last few days is a common denominator in all the presentations: they are building yet another one of the levels of government. Such a nation, a nation of 5 million, cannot have a government of 15 million people. Yes, we have to break down the bureaucracy, and with a rough hand, that they do hands are where they need to be, that is, those sick people caring for, the elderly caring for, the children caring for, and so on. It's the big thing I've missed. When planning these models of society — by what name each party has chosen to make public in recent days’ debates — I would like to see realistic and recognised the fact that:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u42	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u43	Madam President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health is proposing to amend the Child Welfare Act in such a way that the child's right to good treatment, care and education is strengthened and the age limit for child welfare after-care is extended until 25 years. All of these seem to be highly justified. We must do everything we can to prevent exclusion and all forms of under-representedness in this country. Together, we have to do it all. Mr President! In this context, I would like to say a few words about the role of Parliament and the representative of Parliament in general, if the President allows it: One of the most important parliamentarians of the postwar era was V. J. Suususinen, long-standing President, double Prime Minister and much more. He stressed that Parliament, i.e. at the headquarters of democracy, had the last responsibility for improving the position of the disadvantaged and for leaving no one behind. Other security systems may fail, but Parliament is the last lock that must not fail. That's what V.J. Sususlainen thought. After all, he was a well-informed social politician and economicist on family and pension policy. It is the responsibility of the Parliament that in the Republic participation is true for everyone on an equal footing. This was meant by the statesmen and women whose decisive work, even the struggle, made Finland a form of government a hundred years ago, on 17 July 1919. In order to fulfil its role, Parliament must be able to take decisions, including difficult decisions, even in conflict situations. Parliament must be able to form a government within a reasonable period of time, not with delay. It must take care of the weakest, as I have just said, and it must preserve its position as the centre of power in republican Finland. To put it this way, you don't walk across a parliament. Those who have studied history remember how they used their prerogatives to the edges, even those who knock them down, President Urho Kekkonen defined the status of Parliament. He said that if Parliament and the President were to face up to one another, Parliament would pull a longer straw, and that is the way it is within the framework of the present constitution, the Constitution. Is the Parliament worthy of its constitutional status? It's up to the MPs, and it's up to them. The role of Parliament in the eyes of the citizens is also shaped by the actions and behaviour of the representatives, including speeches. According to Article 29 of the Constitution, a Member of the Parliament is obliged to act in accordance with the law and the truth, and Article 31 continues: ‘The representative of the People’s Republic of China shall act in a stable and dignified manner and shall not injure any person. “ We here are bad at giving each other advice — I don't do it, I don't know how to do it. The integrity politician, the President and subsequently the President of the Republic, Mr Kallio, showed his words to himself and to his fellow Members when he pointed out a long, long time ago that each of them bears responsibility for the role and authority of the Parliament — that is, for each of them. One thing I'm saying here is, let's understand each other. Or translate: let us not deliberately misunderstand each other. It is the beginning of trust and cooperation, and Finland has been fully integrated, and Finland has maintained its independence, vitality and faith in the future. Mr President! I'm sorry I got a little distracted from it myself, but at least it pulled the plug on this agenda. This is my last speech from this podium. The speeches have been made. All I have to say is thank you. It's all there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u44	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u45	Mr President! Like Mrs Kääriäinen, I agree with this motion from the committee, which rightly and rightly improves the position of children and young people who have been taken into care. Mr Kääriäinen's excellent speech is very easy to agree with. I would just like to say a few supplementary words for the 36 years I have been allowed here to represent the Finnish people: 36 years ago, the world was a completely different place. We had our borders closed, the Bank of Finland's Board of Directors decided on the value of the money, the only agreement being the EFTA Agreement. In the late 1980s, the financial market was opened up, and the first great trial of my own term was the banking crisis. We sought solutions together and then there were major challenges in relation to membership of the European Union. This time the world is in an even newer position because there are three people in the world who currently affect the development of the world and societies much more than anyone else in the past. The leaders of the great powers are making decisions and, unfortunately, we are now moving a long way away from the contractual, contractual social and world development system. We must hope that we can return to it in the future, because the most important thing, however, is that there should be at least all continents involved in future development. And the European Union represents the continent to which Finland belongs. My own experience of parliamentary work and especially of Parliament as a workplace is excellent. There are very helpful and helpful staff here, and I remember the first years I came here. There was no orientation training for the delegates, but I would like to say a nice thank you for the years: they were then instructed and instructed, and even such a person who came into the house without being trained for the house’s activities gradually got the hang of what was going on. Politics is relationship work. It is good cooperation and teamwork, and it is an integral part of different opinions. I myself would like us to understand one another more and accept the fact that we here cannot change each other's opinions, but together we will be able to find the common lowest denominator on the basis of which decisions will then be taken together. When working together, I can say from experience that Finnish society can also be built in an excellent way from the opposition. After all, the opposition is the conscience of the government, but the opposition also has a very important role to play in raising alternative issues. Parliament is the most valuable forum in Finland, and, as Mrs Kääriäinen said excellently here, we ourselves are responsible for the fact that Parliament will remain the most valuable forum in Finland, which citizens can truly appreciate. After all, the parliamentary work is now being reformed, and I would like to thank you very much for that, because today we have the tools to make a great deal of contact with our citizens. I therefore wish you good luck with the reform work in which Sitra has also played a key role. After all, it all started with the work of the People's Movement, which was prepared by Sitra. For my part, thank you very much for 36 years — in front of it I am humbled.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u46	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u47	Mr President! I am a little embarrassed to speak after much more experienced parliamentarians than I am, but when I came to ask, I will use it. I agree with both of the previous speeches, you can say the whole thing. This amendment to the Child Welfare Act on the table is very much to be welcomed. When it comes to children's rights, it is a very important issue. When it comes to children’s rights, the children themselves cannot control them. Every time we look at rights side by side, that right of the weaker is the strong one, and that is what this is all about. The aim of this bill is to strengthen the child’s right to good treatment, care and education. That is a very important issue. If ever, at this time, this is a matter of real significance. The importance of child protection has been emphasised, but in this context I would like to point out that we should also take action to prevent the need for child protection from increasing or being so enormous. We are very rightly talking about quality early childhood education and child protection, and it is worth talking about and developing them in the situations where they are needed, but we should also strengthen the ability of families to carry out their own educational tasks, and this is often at risk during this period and there are many threats. I don't want to make anyone feel guilty, but sometimes when you read the tabloids and every week it's a big news story that a family has broken up, someone has split up or something like that. It always comes up in the news — not in the news, but it comes to mind — that what is the fate of the children. I do not want — and I will say this for the second time — to blame anyone, but, according to many studies and studies, one of the major fears of young children is the separation of parents. Children need a safe adult, safe parents. What are the common measures we use to support the survival of families? What are the measures to encourage and support the resolution of crises? Children are a key issue for the future of our society, and Parliament has an important role to play in this matter. In this regard, Mr Kääriäinen referred to V. J. Sususian, a major influence of Finnish social policy, and also of economics, and especially of politics and social influence. He was president of the Family Federation during the war. In 44 C.E., he wrote very strongly in an article on the future. He was worried about what would happen to us as a society at the time. The birth rates in the '30s were small. In his article he encouraged the future and said that under good conditions, if the birth rate were to be increased, it would be possible for us to reach the limit of 4 million people in the 70s. That article was from 44 C.E., but what happened? No more history, but after 46, the baby boomers were born, and there is a phenomenon that we people of this age would have to learn from, and that is a strong belief in the future. There was a shortage of everything else, but there was no need to work. Of the meagre conditions — Finland was about half in terms of GDP compared to Sweden at the time. It's a survival story. It had faith in the future and in doing the job. That is the confidence in the future we would need at this time too. Mr President! As far as the role of Parliament is concerned, I would like to say that this is also my last speech on this point: Just over a hundred years ago, in the autumn of 1917, the Parliament declared itself the supreme authority, and that is what it has been ever since. Our joint task is to ensure that nothing breaks the role of this house, this institution as the supreme authority. Nothing should be broken. This institution has endured our times of crisis: in the '30s, an attempt was made to undervalue the role of Parliament. This worked during the war, and when the war ended, the first countries to be in the war in Finland were the parliamentary elections in March 1945. The war in Lapland had not yet ended, Berlin had not yet been taken over, the war was under way, Finland began to act as a parliament — it is not a small thing — so people were able to make a difference. We have to make sure this lasts at all times. Let us not transfer the power that this institution has. It must not be passed on to social media, not to Twitter or to momentary expressions. They have a role to play, but this house must have decision-making power. This house was built during the recession, and it was turned into a granite castle. Finland had been independent for ten years when this was being done. This became a granite castle. It is the house of the people and of the people. It's for the people. We representatives come and go, as many of us are now leaving, but this is a granite castle, and it also has a symbolic meaning in that sense. This must remain, and together we must take good care of this authority. Then we will also have a future. When we compare internationally, we have one of the most effective parliaments in the world. I want to thank all of you for these years. It's been interesting and impressive to be here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u48	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u49	Madam President! This proposal by the government to amend the Child Welfare Act, as we have seen today, is very much to be welcomed in short. What is worrying and what has also been mentioned in the previous speeches is, of course, this general situation. If a little over 40,000 children are born today in a year, when they go back just a few years, the numbers were still at 60,000. We have come down dramatically, and all the statistics that experts here in Parliament are producing show that even smaller figures can be taken from this. So it is a very special situation that we live in Finland, which is freer and wealthier than ever, but yet children — which I think should be an important part of and as a measure of how free and prosperous we really are — are born less. If I think of my own mother, who was born in 45 C.E., after the war, as part of these large age groups, then one must be surprised at the idea that some youths today feel that if there is climate distress, economic difficulties or other challenges in life, it is thought that you cannot have a child. It is not a matter of itself, every child is a gift, but this may be the word that needs to be used in this context. When I think of the generations that went to build Finland after that war, there was a very different situation, as was pointed out in the speeches: there was a shortage of food, there was certainly a shortage of freedom, even though freedom had just been fought for, there was a variety of conflicts of interest between different groups, there was certainly uncertainty about where the world was going, where Finland was going, and the Cold War was at hand. And yet — still — as many as 100,000 children were born a year. I believe that it is these generations that must be taken as an example in this respect. They really had a time for challenges. In this time, however, we cannot afford to go and say that there is no room for children in the Finland, the world in which we live. I dare say that if you are not prepared to bring children into this world, is there a future for mankind that is worth saving, whether it is the environment or whatever. Mr President! This also highlighted a very important theme. I am not a long-term MP — I am a first-term MP, and I remain to see what the decision of the people is then in the elections and whether I am still here to speak after this period — but the word ‘hope’ was very important here and I want to raise my voice. If there is no hope, then society and we humans have nothing else. That, too, worries me, Mr President, is the feeling that attempts are being made to kill this hope from different quarters. Bringing up climate distress, terrorism, migration — many things that people might think there is no hope and everything falls into our arms. But as decision-makers, we must be able to create that hope. Even when we ourselves think that there is a very bad look and there is no hope, our task and our responsibility as decision-makers is to create hope and not to create despair. This is an excellent point of view for the various, of course, downtown, embryonic thinkers and their views. I'll sign them in full. I would also like to highlight one of the thinkers, Veikko Vennamo, who also left the embryo root. I still sign his idea that every human being has equal and undivided dignity. In recent years, too, the importance of this idea has perhaps become more and more important in terms of migration, for example. Mr President! In his speech, the representative: The problem was whether we are able to make decisions, and this is the issue that I am sure is most concerned about in politics throughout Europe. If we look at the situation in Britain, at our social reform, at the political level of many countries, the people are asking us precisely whether we are capable of decisions. Unfortunately, the answer at the moment often is that we do not seem to be able to do so, and then people will turn to those who at least claim that our solution is one that offers strong decision-making. Often, unfortunately, this option is not based on the democratic ideas that we have had in Finland for a hundred years, as has been pointed out here. China, for example, is seriously challenging the Western democratic model to which Finland is committed, the democracy to which this Parliament is committed. Therefore, as Mr Kääriäinen pointed out, Parliament must safeguard its position. It's not obvious. Mrs Kääriäinen is also known for being very active on Twitter, a very modern social media channel, despite her high parliamentary age. Among other things, he said just recently: ‘There is a lot of difference between listening and listening. “ I am sure that each of us, both as a politician and as a person, can join warmly in this. This is what we have to do every day when we make decisions here. Perhaps this term of government was also a bit like Mr Kääriäinen said 'pailing was, pailing'. It wasn't always easy. Mr President! Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to say a few words about the dinosaurs in politics, as the media have recently called for long-term parliamentarians. Finland is no longer a democracy; we are an established and stable democracy. In part, thanks go to those long-term defenders of parliamentarianism who are now leaving Parliament. Seppo Kääriäinen, Sirkka-Liisa Anttila, Tapani Tölli and other elected representatives leave: For my part and on behalf of the Blues, I thank you for the work you have done. In the future, Parliament will have to adapt to life without your captivating personalities and your important contribution to the discussions in the halls. I dare say that Parliament will miss each and every one of you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u50	Mr President! I, too, would like to thank the representatives Mrs Kääriäinen, Mr Anttila and Mr Tölli for their wise contributions. I came up here because there is a unanimous report from the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on the child protection initiative and the government proposal to improve the position of children and young people placed outside the home in such a way as to specify the restrictive measures that can be applied to a young person in child protection. It is a good draft law, which includes a joint contribution from the committee, which suggests that this law should nevertheless be followed up. However, I came up here because, in the context of this government bill, a bill was adopted by me, a representative of the opposition, which proposed raising the age limit for child protection from 21 to 25 years. This is my bill that went through unanimously in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and that is the only bill that I, as an opposition representative, have taken in Parliament and that has gone through Parliament. As a member of the opposition's parliament, I have made two legislative initiatives this season, both of which were, in fact, specifically about child protection. The second bill I made was that the number of clients in child protection should be limited to 25 per social worker, and I personally hope that the next government will bring about this improvement in child protection. I would like, for my part, to thank this House for fostering parliamentaryism and democracy here. Without parliamentaryism, I could not have passed this bill either, and I am heartily grateful to all the 110 Members who signed this bill. That was a very high number, for if you consider that the chairmen of parliamentary groups in general do not sign the legislative initiatives, nor do the ministers, then 110 are a lot. Indeed, of us members of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, a total of 13 Members of Parliament signed this initiative and, if we take into account the alternates, no less than 15. This is a very important issue. Without exaggerating, this bill will save lives. It is very important not only for the young person concerned, but it is also important for society. At the moment, suicide rates are very high for these young people who lose the right to child protection after their 21st birthday and, of course, it makes no sense for us, as a society, to put a great deal of effort into these young people and support them in their survival to 21st birthdays at all and, after their 21st birthday, to inform them that from now on they will have to survive alone without anyone's support, knowing that they have been taken into care precisely because they have no one in this world. After-care means that if a youth in child welfare needs support, for example, for finding housing, housing, applying for a place to study, or for any day-to-day problem, he may receive it, but this bill does not oblige any young person to accept help if it is not needed. But at least I think that if a youth has knowledge that he is not alone and does not need to be alone and that he can rely on the help of society if necessary, then he may have more faith in himself and in his abilities and confidence in the future, and then he does not need to ask for it either. In fact, I think that this is what the welfare society does best. When we have confidence that our own efforts and ideas and ideas carry, then we dare also aim forward in life. I would like to thank Parliament myself for my part in building a better society, at least at this point. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u51	Madam President! For my part, with regard to this amendment to the Child Welfare Act and the adoption of the bill relating to it, I would like to express my thanks to those people who have worked hard to take the matter forward and have done a good job without any effort or effort — at any level in this Parliament. Thank you all so much. Investing in children and the good care of children in this society will ensure that the country called Finland will remain on the map of the world in the future, and we will be able to keep this northern state in good condition and, above all, to uphold the democracy that has been created in this country with great effort and great sacrifice. The work that has been done during the century has by no means been wasted, but it has been for the benefit of the Finns, for the benefit of the Finnish people, and above all it has created a belief in the future in this country. Children have a future, and that is what this issue best reflects. For my part, I would like to thank Seppo Kääriäinen, Sirkka-Liisa Anttila and Tapani for this solemn moment. I'm going to give you a bump for a job that's done so well for the country. I represent the generation that was born at the end of the 1950s, and what Seppo Kääriäinen, Sirkka-Liisa Anttila and Tapani Tölli in their own speeches went through the work of the Finnish state, the unsolicited work of the independent republic for their citizens in the spirit of Kyösti Kallio and many other Finnish statesmen and women who have defended democracy, the spirit was already visible when I was born into the world in August 57. Then the parents took care of it — even though we were modest, yet the father and mother believed through civilization — that the children would go to school and then build Finland, and they insisted on it. Although the conditions were modest, the hand of the Finnish state and society was strong behind it, that no one was left without it. These speeches by my fellow Members, who have been greatly respected, did indeed strike an indelible mark on me, and I am eternally grateful that I happened to be there to hear your speech. It was something that would probably take years forward in life for all of us. Without any more emotion, I would like to thank you all very much for my part. It has been a great honour to hear what you have just said in this Chamber. It is heartwarming that I have heard your wise speeches over the years, and they will end up with age in my heart. Then, when we make sure in this house that we honour the decision-making of the Finnish Parliament, that is, this house — as Seppo Kääriäinen well described in his own speech, and Sirkka-Liisa Anttila described it well, and so Tapani Tölli went through that history — democracy remains intact and defends Finland. Above all, with our own conduct, we defend the prestige of this house, and if we want to work in Parliament as you, honourable colleagues, have done over the years, years and years with your own excellent example of the hard work for Finland, there is a path for us younger people that we should all follow. Warm, respectfully, thank you!
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u52	Mr President! I was wondering if I would dare to say a few words before the examples of respected parliamentarians, if you could say so, and I saw the last speeches and words to use here in front of us. I encouraged myself and I'll come and say a few words. I will start by starting with the fact that when I read that report of officials from the Ministry of Finance, perhaps the greatest wisdom of that report was on the very first pages of the report. It well described how Finland became successful in a few generations after the wars in English. A successful Finland was built on the fact that we had a democracy that was able to take decisions and implement those decisions. At that time some miracles were performed, the foundations of the welfare state were built, the nation was civilized, it was possible to move forward together. When I look at you, ladies and gentlemen Tölli, Anttila and Krewery, I see these who bear wisdom. You and your generation are much to be commended for the heritage of the welfare state that I and my generation have enjoyed. The task of this generation is to cherish the legacy we have enjoyed, and that cherishing means that we humbly bring forward what we have received, take care of it and continue to develop it, as you have done with your own work. When we talk about that challenge, which came up in the speeches on the birth rate, I see a few things in it that I want to say out loud. I try to understand the underlying factors, talk about hope, moving on and my own everyday life. Many young people have been born in the way that they were born during the recession of the 1990s, and it also leaves strong marks. These same young people have become independent during the 2008 financial crisis, and that also leaves a mark. And today, these same young people who have been through the recession of the 1990s and the financial crisis of 2008, are now thinking about their future, perhaps buying the first home and starting a family, and many of them lack a similar perspective, a vision for the future that we saw in previous generations. The world has changed tremendously. When I was allowed to educate myself as Chairman of my party at the Information Society Academy last year, one speech remained firmly on my mind. It was that society will change over the next 20 years perhaps more than it has changed over the last 200 years. It reflects that ferocious change, and that ferocious change will inevitably and immediately affect this house too, this seat of parliamentarianism. One of the most important tasks for us, elected representatives of the people, is to foster the integrity of this house, the prestige of this house and the ability of this house to make decisions. When I think of time now, Finland will face huge global challenges, huge national challenges, and there is little time. If we are not able to take decisions and take decisions at a time when the economic buffers have been eaten up, at a time when many structural reforms are still being made, at a time when the people are turning against each other more and more, what will happen? I believe that there will be a lot of things going on at that time, which Mrs Elo has already highlighted with merit. People's frustrations are turning into new brexes and more and more trumpets, people are looking for answers to their own bad feelings, and that is why we parliamentarians also have enormous importance and responsibility for our own words. There must be hope in how we write Finland's story together and how we look to the future. When I think about and reflect on the things that have happened during this parliamentary term, one of the most important wisdoms — which I personally feel is wisdom — is that everything that has happened in political culture, everything that is seen today, including undesirable things, has evolved over time in people-to-people interaction and everything that has arisen in people-to-people interaction can also be changed together in people-to-people interaction. When I think about history and think about the time when Finland was built a successful Finland, I cannot emphasize enough one solution that I would welcome today. It is the same solution that was making Finland a successful Finland at the time, and it was that we were able to come together, find compromises and commit ourselves to compromises through decisions and broad-based preparations that went over the parliamentary term. I believe, and it seems to me, that no matter which parties are responsible for government, these mega-class reforms in relation to social welfare, social security, taxation or the labour market, which are unquestionably needed, we need an updated idea of comitology so that all parties can commit to common positions and all can think about how to move Finland forward. When compromises are reached, everyone wins, and then perhaps the worst son of a bitch can be taken out of the way of the necessary structural reforms, and that is the policy of the day based on conflict. If more and more people could look each other in the eye and try to understand how another person thinks, there is much wisdom in it. I believe that this house is capable of making decisions, and I know that in many cases the greatest contradictions and differences do not necessarily exist between parties — sometimes within parties — and I know very well that there is much familiarity and knowledge in this house and that the representatives who are most familiar with certain issues will find each other. We in this House should increasingly take parliamentary power over ourselves and be able to take decisions. It is also respect for democracy and democracy. Thank you to all the Members of Parliament, the community of the house, for having the honour of participating in this project — which I will apply for a continuation then, and it will then be in the hands of the people of Central Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u53	Mr President! I listened to this debate in my own room, in the middle of a so-called 'nomadic rush' and stopped to listen to the speeches made by representatives Kääriäinen, Anttila and Tölli, and decided to speak with the mandate of the Member of Parliament, but perhaps above all as a docent of political history and also in honor of my grandparents. As a child, I met Sirkka-Liisa Anttila. The Christmas card he sent was one of the most important Christmas cards received by my grandfather Olavi Savolainen at Lamp, and last week I received a scanned document from my mother’s cousin reminding me of my grandfather’s rural union hobbies, at least as a candidate for the municipal council. I can't remember if he ever went through, and that doesn't matter. But perhaps the bigger message is that what you represent has been part of my life cycle for as long as I can remember, and there was such a joke in my childhood family that we call grandparents when Paavo Väyrynen or Johannes Virolainen is on TV and see if they answer the phone. Usually, they didn't answer. But, Mr President, on a more serious note, perhaps I should like to raise four brief points of view after listening to the debate: First of all, what Mrs Aalto was talking about, that is, this story and arch of the welfare state. I was born in 76 C.E., and in current statistics, for example, our generation threatens to be the highest educated in Finland, we have the best teeth and many other such individual factors that previous generations' policies have built. It remains to be seen whether we can continue to make the world better for the next generations. At the moment, for example, this is not exactly the case in education policy. At the same time as we move around the world, we continue to meet with representatives of our own generation, who have either a state or a city with a young population base, a lot of natural resources, good growth figures behind them, and they wonder how from now on – and each time they find the example of Finland. So it is not because of Pisa; it is because of our historical example that we are being asked about these models. It will, of course, be easy for us to describe the political decision-making that has been taken through the struggles, through consensus. Recognizing it, I believe, is perhaps at present one of the most valuable heritages in Finnish democracy. We have to find new forms and new factors for it in every time, but there is something in its core that we should not lose. Secondly, my ears hurt very much — in a beautiful way — when a representative Tölli talked about the faith and hope of the future and perhaps its lack or, at least, the need for more in precisely this time. I myself have been here quite a lot in recent weeks when we have had a lot of panel discussions that we are taking part in, for example, on climate change, and that is exactly what we need to think about, for example, during the times of reconstruction in this country. In time, I myself have studied the mental atmosphere of different ages and how people remember them, and it is confusing how a positive memory of these decades of reconstruction exists in certain generations. We must be able to build a similar story from this coming ten years, which will be told forward if we are to do the things that, as it were, are required of us by the factual scientific knowledge of the world and which young people are shouting so loud that it really should hurt everyone's ears a little. But I think that this is the kind of arc that I really hope you will also bring out in your own speeches: this is not the first time that we have to build new things in a new way, in a new way, in the future, with everything involved, as fairly as possible in the whole country and in the whole world. Then the third debate on parliamentaryism: It is also good to refer here to Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto. It is somewhat symbolic that this debate is taking place in connection with the discussion of the legislative initiative under the leadership of Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto. Indeed, it is a demonstration of parliamentaryism in the sense that the majority of us signed it, and it is indeed an important issue in the field of child protection, namely the obligation to provide aftercare for 25-year-olds, which, from the professional point of view, is very central and can, as Mr Alako-Kahiluoto himself said, even save lives. This tells us something about what can be done with parliamentaryism, and I was very moved by the comparisons made during this debate to the 30th century and to the various stages of history in which all the Finnish Parliament has been able to work. After all, we bear such a legacy, both nationally and globally, that its responsibility is, in fact, not for individuals, but for each of the 200 people who are elected here, and the message to them about parliamentaryism is that, on the one hand, it is strong, but democracy is always fragile and peace is never self-evident and therefore its strength must always be upheld. I hope that you will also write these ideas in a longer format, save them in videos, in formats that we can then introduce them to our posterity, so that they understand the deep value of parliamentarianism. Then, at the very last, when you all represent the Central Party, I personally have wondered a lot about where the dangers of Finland's extremist movements are at the moment. They are in many directions, but surely one direction is the direction in which the centre has traditionally been a strong party. We have a lot of people in rural areas who may feel sidetracked by the so-called world march, and I believe that the direction you represent in the coming years can be very decisive in the direction in which this development is developing or is not developing. I hope that your wisdom will also be at the disposal of your party when considering these forwards. So, Mr President, perhaps that is the way I would like to say that we will find solutions and we will all promise to do our best. And as a historian, I would say that this is an historic moment which must also be recognized, and I really must thank you very warmly both personally and, of course, for everything we represent, for the work that you have done and also for the fact that you have taken the speeches today with such valuable ideas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u54	Madam President! The Child Welfare Act under consideration is important. Children are our future, and we have far too many children today, especially in vulnerable conditions. It is important that we continue to keep these issues on the agenda and strive to secure the future of our nation, both quantitatively and qualitatively, so that the living conditions of the children are in order. Unfortunately, this is not the case today. Mr President! This debate has now turned a little to other careers because of the time, and it is really great that this has happened. I myself have been allowed to be here in Parliament since 87, just as Mrs Kääriäinen did, and together we have been through many storms, especially the storms of the early 1990s, when we were in the same government. At one time it seemed that the fatherland would not survive this storm, but it did, and I do give the highest esteem to Mrs Käärääinen, who was then in positions of responsibility. In the same way, Mr Anttila's representative and, subsequently, his representative We've been in the same storms as Tölli. The trials have been great, but yet, in today's experience and life, we are the fact that Finland's independence and the resilience of Finland have survived, and we can rejoice in this democratic regime and decide on it together, no matter what side we are on. These parts change from time to time. Nor can I fail to mention Mr Mäkipää, who has now come into the Chamber. He's been here since 83 years, except for a little break. It's been really great working with all of you. Thank you so much for that. If permitted, Psalm 1 came to my mind, or it is not a phrase, but a word: “He is planted like a tree by a ditch, and he is gleaned with his fruit. “ This occurred to me when I was thinking about you. You have been such strong trees in Finnish nature along the water ditches so that you have endured storms and winds, and perhaps that fruit here on the political front is often hard to see, but I believe and am fully convinced that you have all produced fruit in your time. Your time in this house now ends — it may be that mine will end, but I am still in the games — but your life through this system has been valuable and deserves great praise. I wish you all, and others who are not, a blessing for the days to come, joy and strength, and also to continue to communicate with us and those who will then be here. Likely 200 here will be chosen again, and they are less experienced than you have been, but of course experience always comes to everyone who is here, and with it there will certainly be plenty of enthusiasm and skill to do things and to serve the common interests of the fatherland. Warm thanks to all of you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u55	Mr President! Unfortunately, it has not come to this Child Welfare Act, but I have had a lot of these things in practice in my life. The first child welfare thing that comes to my mind was when I was under ten years old: We often had Roma families in our home, and I remember when one of the Roma dads was waiting on our bench in the winter cold because the train comes when he takes two boys to the children’s home. It was the first time that I was able to grow up with my parents, but they had to leave their parents. And I don't know what happened to them in the future. This bill proposes to amend the Child Welfare Act to strengthen the child’s right to good treatment, care and education. I have often wondered that when there are close to 20,000 children placed outside the home and these numbers always seem to have grown, we should, for once, focus on why. I have also often spoken about the fact that prevention is behind everything. We need prevention in family policy in matters of child protection, and this is done in connection with the visit to the maternity clinic even when the child has not yet been born. As a single parent, I visited a maternity clinic, and my living conditions were not very rosy at the time, but they gave me advice. Of course, I had a home that I was able to spend years there with my child, but this may not be the case with everyone. Everyone may have difficulties during their lives, in which case they would like to contact the social services, but I have been told that the fear is not to talk, but that the child is very easily placed in custody, and this is no longer the way to keep in touch. This situation can then lead to a situation when it goes very far that parents or parents are no longer prepared to take responsibility for the child, and this is how this spiritually hard investment process begins. Of course, sometimes it is good, and it is often the case that a child is placed outside the home, but again we have to ask why. Is there something wrong with us adults? Should we be put in some kind of custody? The practice is often that custody and investment decisions are complicated, and even if the situation of the child’s parents or parents has improved, their dismantling in practice is very lengthy, that is, if the child is to be taken home, it takes an awful long time. It is good that a care and education plan is made for a child who is a customer of child welfare. Efforts must be made to improve the legal security of the child and his/her guardian placed outside the home and to improve supervision. These children are also important to many victims and grandmothers, and these contacts should also apply to them. A child must receive good care and treatment, whether in a foster home or an institution, but is supervision sufficient? Who today can see the daily lives of children, whether it is a foster home or an institution? It is therefore a good thing that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health welcomes the fact that the proposal has sought to strengthen the supervision of foster care by obliging regional government agencies to consult children in foster care on their missions. But here, too, there is another problem, at least as a practical example: a child who is placed in custody does not necessarily tell this overseer how he is there in foster care or elsewhere, how he is treated, and, for example, whether he is equal to his own children in the house. This is the harsh everyday life. It would be good if there were such visits that it would not be announced in advance. All in all, this is a step forward, but I would also like to say that there should be much more prevention here too, that our children should stay as long as possible at home and that we should give the old-fashioned home aid to families so that parents too can ask for support when everyone has the difficulties. This is what my practical experience has shown, and this is probably my last speech, and I'm not often here in the toilet. I wish you all a truly sunny retirement and, as I often say to the children, the blessing of the Heavenly Father. Even though we are wise politicians, without the guidance of our Lord, we are nothing at all. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u56	Mr President! In this Child Welfare Act, the committee decided to bring this to the Chamber because the Ombudsman has long been paying attention to the fate of child welfare children. In Finland, children must be guaranteed the opportunity to fulfil all fundamental rights, regardless of where they grow up. In the case of children with child protection, it is not always possible to talk about normal education when it is simply day after day in the use of coercive measures, and in this respect the Ombudsman's message has been very important and we have to look at the fact that children with child protection, including institutions, must have fundamental rights at every moment. Well, this work was not very easy because, in fact, at the beginning of this bill was attached to the reform of social welfare and health care, and this connection was now dismantled here in the very last few metres, so we got it here in the hall again. But even more challenging was the fact that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that, in fact, the glimmer of light in this law from which this whole reform started was that it was necessary to be able to define what would be the normal kind of education in which children's children, such as those in institutions, could in future be so that every day would not be filled with mere coercive measures. Unfortunately, we are now unable to give a proper answer to that. This law is therefore good and brought here because the grey zones and, can I say, the precise use of coercive measures are now being specified. But the most important part of this law was to strengthen self-determination as part of a larger package of self-determination, and when it failed on the Ministry side, however, this aspect of child protection, which is a long-awaited and long-awaited package, was brought under discussion. Its content is still flawed, precisely because we were not able to define exactly what the usual education that children should receive in institutions should be, and in this regard the next government will probably have to return to this and to define more precisely what this inquiry which started in the Ombudsman's office and this whole law was all about. In that respect, I wish everyone every success in the further examination of this law while it still comes. We decided, as a committee, that we would at least bring this coercive part here, and this will then be retuned as the next government continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u57	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u58	Mr President! This is about legislative changes in Keva, and it is good to say that at the very last minute we have managed to get this law here in the Chamber. Thank you to Parliament's leadership for having been able to bring this. This has been discussed both in the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and we believe that these changes, which are included in this law, are justified. There is a need for global reform throughout this area and, in that respect, I believe that the next government will return to this whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-18-ps-180.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, when this sitting is over, I will say that this is the last plenary session I have chaired in this House.
