ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u2	Congressman Ojala-Niemel.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u3	Mr President! People expect simple things from a social welfare reform. They expect everyone to have the right to professional and quality care. They expect access to treatment without waiting in line and customer fees do not become an obstacle to access to treatment. They also expect adequate and equal services for all. The government's social welfare reform does not meet these objectives. On the contrary, according to a number of experts, the government's proposal and, in particular, the soft market model of the coalition will lead to a deterioration in the position of those in need of social and health services and to an increase in inequality. [Department : False assessment! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u5	Mr President! I agree with the questioner's assessment of what people expect from this reform and also what we have agreed at national level on why we need social welfare reform in Finland. However, our assessment differs as to whether this reform can achieve these objectives. It is quite clear that prolonged uncertainty — years of preparation and different government models — has not been likely to improve the situation or the position of staff, at least in spite of the development euro used for services. With regard to the constitutionality of the proposals: When a completely new way of organising social and health services and implementing the production of services is being created, it has not been easy to meet the constitutional conditions, and there are many points where there could be hindsight. But our attitude towards the Committee on Constitutional Affairs' proposals, i.e. exact demands, has been very respectful and solutions have now been drawn up to support the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u6	Mr President! In addition to everything else, the Assembly's market model presents serious problems from the point of view of EU law. As a solution, the government has argued that there would be a kind of short cut to ensure the legality of the market model, in the words of the government, a ‘legal certainty notice’. Such a shortcut does not meet the requirements of the Constitutional Committee. This has been said by our highest experts in EU law. Nevertheless, the government stubbornly refuses to continue to do so with regard to the freedom of choice model. In order to build a house, a building permit is needed. The same applies to this building, but now the government does not have that permit. Minister: Why is the government taking such a risk on taxpayers' money that you are building a house of war without a permit? Who pays the costs of unloading an unauthorized building?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u7	Mr President! A minute would not quite be enough to clarify this rather difficult and complex legal problem, but I will try my best. First of all, this EU-notification is a general concept, under which there is also room for action in the form of a declaration of legal certainty. It is, in principle, a similar way of seeking a formal position from the EU as to whether the future model of freedom of choice for social and health care, or some of its individual components, includes State aid which may be considered to be prohibited, i.e. whether there are elements in the model that favour the public service provider rather than the private service provider too much, which is, of course, a rather paradoxical arrangement for you to blame the market model at the same time. The basic starting point of the government is that we are creating a model in Finland that maintains a strong basis for every taxpayer's equal right to social and health services. So our position is,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u8	Ladies and gentlemen! Four different parliamentary groups have asked a question from different angles of war. Exactly the same question as before Mr Ojala-Niemelä has Mr Henriksson, and that is why I will give him the next floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u9	Värderade Talman! Det är många i vårt land nu som på riktigt är oroade över regeringens stätt att hantera vård- och landskapsreformen, och det är många som inte förstår sig på det att regeringen har så svårt att lyssna på sakkunniga och på grundlagsutskottet. Nu har man valt en väg, när det gäller den ox EU-notifieringen, som fortfarande är osäker. Frågan är: Varför vill man inte läja den säkra vägen i tillet för den osäkra?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u10	Mr President! First of all, in an opinion published by the Constitutional Committee on this House, the Constitutional Committee states that this type of EU legal assessment is a matter of government. Furthermore, if legal uncertainty is reduced by informing the Commission of the proposed system of freedom of choice and its content in a procedure under a specific article, this is in line with the views the Constitutional Committee wishes to see in order to strengthen legal certainty. With the best experts from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and the Ministry of Finance, this point has been carefully reviewed and the opinion has been respected. For more than a year now, we have had informal discussions on the direction of the Commission as to whether there is support for the assessment that the Finnish model does not need such acceptance from the EU, because, in principle, social and health policy is always in national hands and the nature of the model is so strongly based on the equal rights of Finnish taxpayers. But because of this again
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u11	Mr President! This opinion of the Constitutional Committee states: ‘In the exceptional situation in which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is considering an exceptional assessment,the draft report of the Committee Now, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are using another procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u12	Mr President! I know that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in its expertise and in support of it, has consulted a number of constitutional and EU legal experts and has come to this type of position, which gives the Committee on Social Affairs and Health the power to make the decisions it considers best and, if necessary, to adopt them in the Constitutional Committee. Now the government has provided the Committee on Social Affairs and Health with the fins and the keys to a solution, how to take this forward. As this solution has been prepared under our responsibility, I will exceptionally read directly about the presentation and background which has been submitted to Ministers: ‘In the context of the Union’s Treaty,it is not foreseen that Member States will not make State aid notifications to the Commission,and only for reasons of legal certainty,when knowing that they are making a distorted competitiveplan,and that there is no presumption of legal certainty as a result of which the Commission has been referred to at the root of the Article,butit has nevertheless [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u13	I would now like to ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question, a supplementary question specifically relating to the notification of sote, to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u14	Mr President! Just as Mr Henriksson of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs said, this is a procedure under Article 108(3), which requires that freedom of choice for regional and social reform, i.e. the market model, cannot be started until notification of the EU is ensured. Now, however, the government parties are content with a mere notification procedure which will enable the reform of the social media and freedom of choice, the market model, to be launched and the model to be taken forward, despite notification. There's a huge difference. Several experts in EU law and the Supreme Administrative Court have warned about this. Now I would ask the government: when there is a risk that we may also be faced with a situation where the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will have to submit an anti-constitutional proposal to Parliament, and this, of course, also gives President Risiko a great responsibility, why are you taking this risk?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u15	Mr President! The solutions that Parliament will find in relation to the procedures between the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs from now on will be in the hands of your committee members. I would like to clarify a few points on this issue, which is undoubtedly very complicated in legal terms in relation to the Finnish national constitution and, on the other hand, in relation to the EU law which we, as a nation and as a nation, are bound by. However, it is worth noting that there are as many different social and health models in the EU as there are almost 30 Member States, and the Finnish model remains and will continue to be a strong Nordic welfare state model that entitles people to services regardless of their income background and level. This is already different from many of the models that EU terms would call economic, such as insurance-based solutions in many countries, and this distinction between EU countries is important to understand. I would also like to point out that, according to the information I have received from officials, notification is the main concept of any notification to the Commission. The State aid notification is such a notification in State aid cases,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u16	Now, if I may, I would kindly ask that, in future, the answers and questions be as close as possible to the one minute that is our common rule of the game.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u17	Mr President! The government can only blame itself for this social mess and the problems of EU law at hand. The reform would have been completed a long time ago if there had been no trade in social welfare cows in the city centre and the assembly. Hanging yourself on a problematic market model is the root cause of the whole mess and of these EU legal problems. A responsible political leadership would now be needed. Now it's time to whistle the game off. The greatest reform in recent history cannot be broken through in this kind of EU legal uncertainty with this haste and a few votes if there is a majority. Mr President! The Prime Minister should now show leadership, say that the proposal cannot and should not be taken through, convene the chairmen of all parties, and look at the signs for the next term of government, because the reform of social security must, however, be carried out. Mr President!
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u18	Mr President! The preparation and handling of the social reform is now quite close to the goal if we are to continue discussing whether or not the EU will allow this to happen. [ Hustles from the left] The citizens expect us to take this matter forward here, to give Parliament peace of work, and the committees are determined to work to the end under the guidance of Parliament's leadership.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u19	Mr President! I am looking at the statement of Professor Juha Raitio of EU law on 24 February, and he states from the legal certainty notice that it is part and beginning of this notification and that it is no longer suitable for these final words. How have officials reversed this? Especially now that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health apparently no longer wants to hear from constitutional experts, are you going to ensure these things in the Ministry? It is acceptable for the Finns themselves that we should go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. This statement of legal certainty did not come up at all in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I would have asked why, for example, ministerial officials, when they were present in these hearings, did not point out that this sort of thing might be in preparation. This must have been the case when Mr Nerg, the leading official on the same evening, announced that Mr PeV's statement contained:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u20	Mr President! You will understand, Mr Meri, that I cannot comment on the events of the Constitutional Committee or on the speeches made by officials there. These are internal debates within your committee. To the best of my ability, I will try to describe what is at stake, as I have been able to deal with this legally complex problem. Now the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has concerns as to whether the government has sufficient legal certainty to support its view that the Finnish model will continue to be in line with the EU's principles of solidarity, i.e. its solutions that do not include economic activity or the elements of state aid prohibited through it, i.e. that it would not favour more public individuals. We believe that the basis of this model is so strong in public service production and citizens' equal rights that the government has not changed its assessment of the situation, and I understand that neither has the Constitutional Committee argued that the nature of this model is different, but wants the government to seek certainty for it. Since the informal discussions have not been sufficient, we certainly respect this position and
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u21	Mr President! It is already clear that we need a building permit for this house, which was also stated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, namely legal certainty as to the type of house to be built. It must be so that there is no costly costs in terms of dismantling and even compensation for it. Now, in this case, the only question is what type of building permit to be applied for. In 2017, the Supreme Administrative Court required that a permit be applied for the construction of this social welfare house, i.e. the construction of a market model, which may include these state aids. Now, however, after the position of this Constitutional Committee — as the Constitutional Committee specifically requires, as the Supreme Administrative Court does, that this declaration of notification be made in accordance with this particular article — the government will make a different statement and, unlike the Constitutional Committee, you will also suggest that you can implement this model here, while the Constitutional Committee stated that legal certainty will only be obtained when the model is ready. Let me ask you once again: are you familiar with this statement?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u22	Mr President! I reply to the chairman of the committee that, yes, to the best of my ability, I am familiar with this opinion. And as far as this is concerned, the declaration of legal certainty is a form of request to the EU Commission for authorisation in a certain way. Its fundamental difference with the notification you have spoken about is that the law can be enforced during it. It is worth noting, in particular, the fact that the Social Centre, which is particularly concerned by this, will only enter into force in these plans for years to come as a whole, and we will then have a good time to go through this process with the Commission, whether they will confirm Finland's view of the strong nature of the system as equal to all citizens. I can't really describe what it's really about anymore, except that I might try to challenge it when, in the same sentence, you accuse the government of a market model and demand that we have to be absolutely certain of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u23	Mr President! The Prime Minister, perhaps somewhat disparagingly, described the situation when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs made 20 constitutional moves for necessary changes and, in addition, dozens of proposals for amendments that would be justified by the Constitution. It is not just a question of whether EU law and the EU Commission will allow this reform, but rather of the great need for change which must be carefully prepared in Parliament and which the government must take with deep respect. In that sense, it would be important for the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, in which the government parties are also represented, to listen to experts to ensure that these observations are fully implemented. But I would like to draw your attention to the risk that this is, if it turns out later that legal certainty is not keeping up with EU law and there is a problem here. This may lead to the imposition of even a temporary ban on the implementation of the regional businesses by a decision of a Finnish national court, in which case the public service cannot act, although the Constitutional Committee has required,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u24	Mr President! In our best respect, we have been able to respond and provide solutions in support of the work of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health with regard to all these comments on the so-called obstacles to the progress of the law. We have also carefully read through the whole text and drew attention to the comments made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs within it. When you refer, Mr Niinistö, to the possibility of ending up in a situation where, in a national court or in a judicial procedure in general, an executive ban would be imposed on these centres of health — and I will respond to it as best I can — in this respect I have a different view. Since the social centres will not enter into force until about 22-23, we have a good time to establish a common position with the Commission on this matter through this procedure of legal certainty and, if necessary, to change the details of the system which may be problematic from the point of view of state aid, thereby avoiding the situation that we would ever end up in legal proceedings.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u25	Mr President! The aim of this social welfare reform is to improve access to social and health services and to reduce differences in people's well-being and health, for example, so that the doctor can get better access. The foundations of the reform are the provinces. We assume that the provinces — Kainuu, Central Finland, Pirkanmaa, Varsinais-Suomi, Lapland, Central Ostrobothnia, Uusimaa, Satakunta and so on — will be able to decide better on matters in their own region and will not be decided here in the Helsinki Chambers. These 18 provinces are not new governments on top of the old ones, but replace the existing nearly 400 joint municipal authorities, organisations and other administrative bodies. But, Mr President, now that we are trying to bring this down on the pretext of notification or something else, I will ask the government what your assessment is if it should fall into any of this: would it be the case that the forthcoming government and the future parliament after the elections?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u26	Congressman Kaikonen, before long there was a notification. Now I hope that the next speeches will continue to do so until we move on to the next question. — — — — Answer, Minister Saarikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u27	Mr President! If I also tie my response to this first notification, which is specifically related to obtaining this EU legal certainty for social centres: the increase in the number of such services through the multi-producer model has been sought, above all, because of the faster access of people to the services — the services of a doctor and a nurse.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u30	With regard to this question, I will give two further questions, Mr Östman and then the representative of the group that has begun, Mr Lindtman. Then let's move on to the war too, just a little bit further. — Mr Östman, you have a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u31	Mr President! It is up to the EU Commission to carry out an assessment of possible State aid against the internal market. This is not something we can get over or around here in the Finnish Parliament. Legal uncertainty can only be removed through notification and must be dealt with in advance during the legislative process, not after the law has entered into force. Juha Raitio, Professor of European Law at the University of Helsinki, has taken a tough line throughout the preparation process. The proposal for freedom of choice presents risks in the area of EU competition law. It is therefore entirely possible for the EU to see elements of illegal state aid in the Finnish model. I ask the minister concerned: do you dare to claim that the professors of law are wrong?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u32	Mr President! Of course, I do not question the professor's views, but I understand that the Constitutional Committee heard a number of experts from the whole of this social welfare package and received a wide range of views for which synthesis, position, the Constitutional Committee's assessment of what should be done, not an individual expert's assessment. As far as the EU is concerned, I take it very seriously. As this issue floats over this reform at national level as a very strong uncertainty, it is important that informal interaction with the EU is taken into official form. This declaration of legal certainty can be started in practice right away, but, in principle, the position of government experts and officials is that our model is so broadly in line with the EU's solidarity principles that, if such prohibited elements were to exist individually, they could still be corrected before they were implemented and entered into force.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u33	Mr President! On this point, I agree with the Minister that it may be a little difficult for the average viewer to follow, but this is therefore a very important issue, because this may depend on the fate of your entire social fabric. Now we are talking about this EU-notification because you have wanted to bring this market element into the process of social reform. Without it, we wouldn't have to talk about this. And the Constitutional Committee has called for this procedure precisely because there will be no building without a building permit and then Finland will be compensated. But this matter, whether it is a notification or a declaration of legal certainty, can actually be resolved here and now. I have here a form in which you will make this notification to the Commission. This is the first question to ask for an answer on what kind of notification: (a), (b), (c ), (d). (b) is a notification in accordance with Article 108(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This is what the Constitutional Committee refers to. Then there is also point (d) which refers to a declaration of legal certainty.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u34	Minister Saarikko, tick the box.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u35	Mr President! This isn't exactly a lottery game or a bet.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u36	This issue of social exclusion has been dealt with at the end of this period.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u37	Next question, Congressman Olli-Son Parviainen. I think we're still in the middle of a mess.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u38	Yes, we are, Mr President. Mr President! Yes, it has become clear to everyone, at least here, that the original objectives of the social welfare reform on controlling cost growth, on seamless care chains and on better services do not seem to be realised, and an attempt is now being made to make over-regime reform of the last few metres, which, even on a few days' notice, is being carried through at committee level in such a hurry. In the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the government groups blocked this urgency, arguing that the matter should be dealt with in a normal manner. Your parliamentary groups don't work apart from you. They're part of the team you're playing in. Your parties have blocked the use of experts on the issue of social services now in the final stages. Not even written statements may be requested, but the responses provided by the government should be recognised as such. This isn't right. This does not ensure that this reform is in accordance with the Constitution, and there is cause for doubt, because the changes in the Government's response seem to be a bit of a wobbly if not a drop. Now it seems to be mainly tweeting about these issues as an option for experts. I should like to ask you, government, how you see this procedure. Do you think this is appropriate?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u39	Mr President! In this delicate situation, I am particularly careful about the competences of Parliament and the government. It is impossible for me to comment on individual cases in the committee, some of which have been heard through public debate. As a long-standing member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I believe that it is standard practice for an expert hearing to end and for a preparatory debate to begin and for the opinion of the experts to form the committee's position, similar to that of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, i.e. to come together and come together on the basis of a proposal from the government which has been heard and evaluated. I understand that this type of situation has been at stake, but otherwise I do not want to comment on it. I would just like to say that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has already gone through the report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, that is to say, the stage on which the committee has already carried out an overall assessment of the overall position on the legal aspect of the reform of social welfare and health care.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u40	Mr President! The parliamentary parties agree on the fundamental need for social reform and also on the main objectives, and, as we all know, the most problematic aspect of this package is the market model of freedom of choice, which has been mentioned a great deal here. We believe that it jeopardises all the key objectives of the reform, from better coordinated services to curbing cost growth. This has also been noted by many experts. The market model splits up services and makes the whole system difficult to manage, for example with regard to the construction of a service network. Social reform has now come across the Constitution several times, and this time again the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has drawn attention to a number of issues and there are more than ten points that should be reviewed. So, Mr Government, I would like to ask you straight away: if this is now up to the freedom of choice or the market model, will you withdraw this model? We would still have the opportunity to achieve something together. And if you are going to take this model forward, how do you expect Finland to survive in the grip of the market model?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u41	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say to your argument about the market model that perhaps the debate on the elderly services over the last few weeks has reminded us that private service providers are already here as part of our current system. For example, half of the services of 24-hour care are already provided by the private sector. The change in the way in which freedom of choice is viewed in relation to the current situation is that in future, an elderly person himself or with his/her relatives will be able to choose between the service providers, private and public, where he/she wants his/her own care and living. This is the most important change in mentality and the difference between the markets that have already opened up as part of our country's social and health care services.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u42	This same theme appears to be at issue in Mr Pekonen. I'll give him the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u43	Mr President! One of the main issues of this social welfare reform is how the model proposed by the government would ensure sufficient funding for the provinces so that the regions could provide high-quality social and health care services for all, regardless of where Finland lives. It cannot be that we are faced with a situation where vital services are being compromised when the money is running out — and the government's cutter model is now at such a risk. The opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposed facilitating access to additional funding for the provinces, but you are now proposing, in your reply, mainly cosmetic changes which do not respond to the concerns expressed by the Constitutional Committee and also by a number of experts. Additional funding would remain discretionary and subject to strict conditions. So I ask you, Minister: how do you secure equal social and health services for regions facing financial difficulties, for example when it comes to very expensive cancer treatments?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u44	Mr President! I think we have both read the opinion of the Constitutional Committee very carefully last Friday, and so much I would like to say that that opinion did not take a position on this so-called additional funding for the individual province. So it's the way it's been fixed before. But the Constitutional Committee took a position on the overall level of funding as to how it should be strengthened. The model used in the confirmation was that — we are talking about this Article 6 of the Finance Act — financing can be secured by different means, i.e. whether more than five provinces are in difficulty or then more than 35 %. These are our proposals, which will be able to secure and see that if the system does not function adequately, more funding will be needed. In addition, we also improved the regional index. In other words, with regard to the regional index, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs said that it does not take sufficient account, among other things, of wage developments.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u45	The blues seem to have a question about the same theme. Congressman Torvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u46	Mr President! The people are now looking at Parliament and are wondering whether this Parliament will be able to make major reforms any longer, as the reform of social security has been prepared for 15 years. And now listen: in all, over a thousand experts have been here in these years, and they are now being pushed out once again. Last Friday, we in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs received an opinion from the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, thus receiving it and having binding rules, requests, contributions, as is the case with the constitution, which obliges us to give about ten, six of which are serious. [Laughter — intermediate calls]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u47	Mr President, I think we're going to have to go over quite a bit. — Timetable for the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u48	Mr President! I do not remember exactly all the dates when these were imported — the first in 2017. But perhaps I personally take a different view of the work of the committees with regard to the fact that I believe that these proposals have gone in a better direction in committee, and I very much respect the work done under the leadership of the chairman of the committee, Mr Kiuru, so that a report has been produced on this big package which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has now been able to deal with. As far as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs' comments are concerned, I cannot say that some have been more or less serious. Each of them is such that if we do not comply with them, the law cannot proceed, none of these sets of laws. I would describe the differences between these comments, some of which were clearly more technical in nature, for which it was easy to think about solutions and the committee showed clear paragraphs on what to correct, and some of them were more complex entities for which the best experts spent the night, the day, more than that,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u49	Mr President! The committee has indeed heard a number of experts, but it must be said that the committee has consulted experts specifically on a proposal from the government. Now we are dealing with the government's counterpart which we received last Tuesday. This opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to which the reply now refers, contains a number of proposals behind the ponies — as has been said, 20 paragraphs — and, in addition, dozens of other comments, and now, following consultation with this response, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health should be sure that this proposal is in accordance with the Constitution and that we can take it forward. In the end, it will be here in plenary and the President will be responsible for whether the proposal can be dealt with. Minister, do you think it is unreasonable for the committee to no longer consult experts?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u50	Mr President! It was the committee's own decision to resolve the matter. There is no outside vision of what are the obstacles to the progress of the committee. I note that this government response, the proposals for solutions to the committee, has been drawn up as far as possible on a subject on which there are endless differences of opinion among experts. I believe that it is best known to constitutional experts who received different kinds of assessments from different experts about the constitutionality or non-constitutional nature of certain issues. In the end, these are political decisions. Do we have sufficient certainty that we dare to move forward and that there is now a sufficient foundation for that house you mentioned? As far as I am concerned, the establishment of a social welfare house in the EU is not based on the creation of a social welfare house in 18 regions, and the implementation of this reform will determine how we will succeed. But the laws are needed for that first.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u51	After these group questions, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask those Members who insist on asking a supplementary question, to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u52	Mr President! I think that there has recently been such a debate on notification and similar difficult legal issues that it has not opened up to us parliamentarians, and perhaps even less to television viewers. The basic question is that the government is pursuing a social and regional reform in which the basic health care is free of choice, i.e. the choice between a public and private service provider, and the price, the customer charge, is the same. So why are we driving this thing? Well, because it improves the availability of services, i.e. access to a doctor and nurse. Because it increases the cost-effectiveness of these services. And because it increases the customer orientation of these services. When there is genuine competition, customer orientation is highlighted in a completely different way than at the moment. I would now like to ask Minister Saariko: do you understand why there is so much opposition to this freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u55	Mr President! I have somehow come to understand during these years of war that it is not very easy to achieve political unity. A world in which we would be in complete agreement as to what is a good structure or the way in which services are produced — there is no such absolute truth. These are ultimately decisions in the hands of Parliament. But I am quite sure that the argument that the market is now being opened is misleading in itself, because private service providers are already here. I should like to complete Mr Zyskowicz's situation as regards the fact that, in future, the rules of the game, both private and public, when operating with common tax resources, will also become the same in terms of their periphery. This will mean an exceptionally demanding task for the regions, because it is not easy to run a system with different service providers in a country where the need for services is growing. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u56	Mr President! Contrary to what Mr Zyskowicz said, this reform, as the government is now taking it forward, increases bureaucracy, increases costs and weakens the situation of the most vulnerable in particular, those who need the most services. This is not my opinion, this is not the opinion of the demars, it is the opinion of the experts. Indeed, we have heard a great deal about them in this process. It is said that this reform has been under preparation for so long — as long as two years have passed since the first government proposal came here — that it is no longer necessary to consult experts. Well, this is the government's response, the government's response to the shortcomings raised by the Constitutional Committee and they are serious shortcomings. And now the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has been denied the option of voting by a majority in the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u57	Your Honour! The question must have been made clear in some way. I now give the reply to the minister concerned. — Minister Saarikko, you have the floor now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u58	Mr President! You, Mr Guzenina, have been here at the same time to respond to the attempt to bring the social reform to the finish line,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u61	Minister, the minute also applies to you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u62	Mr President! The words ‘shrink’ and ‘running’ contain a wide range of dimensions and The majority of the legislation that is now being finalised has been in Parliament for two years. One essential part, but only the section of the Act on Freedom of Choice has been in the hands of Parliament for a year. When the situation is difficult and difficult, the more important it is to keep in mind how these processes are going here, what is the responsibility of whom. At this stage, legislative progress is in the hands of Parliament, and this work is supported by ministries as best they can. When many people are concerned that we would have made progress if there had been parliamentary preparation, we were exactly four years ago in a situation where we had a parliamentaryly prepared law that ran into the Constitution. Let us not be afraid that the Constitutional Committee has made a few comments, but my question is — on the ground a message as to where we stand: what is the state of preparation of the provinces at the moment?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u63	Mr President! A great deal of work has been done in the regions to create new structures for the organisation of services — not municipalities, but responsibilities for the regions — which have been better thought of as chains than in the current separate special care, basic health care and separate social services. However, it must be said that, of course, this uncertainty in this House over the last few months and the many developments in this reform have also been slowing down the process of preparation in the provinces, but the message we have received from it is, of course, strongly that the work of these hundreds of professionals, who have been working full-time in preparation alone, would best be rewarded by the fact that the reform law here is now moving forward. Mr President! I also agree with the view that this really is in the hands of Parliament, because the Constitutional Committee did not see any structural problems that would require a government proposal. I did not expect the opposition to thank you for these solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u64	Next question, Congressman Immonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u65	Mr President! From an important theme to another important theme: Finnish elderly people are at a loss. The marginalisation of young people is a veritable form of folklore. The security and humanity offered to citizens by the Finnish welfare state in the past are crumbling. Even though the economy is growing, you, the government, are still cutting off the most vulnerable Finns. In addition, this year, the government will be in debt of almost EUR 2 billion more. It is incomprehensible that Finland is now living in a situation where the government is unable to take care of even our own citizens, such as the elderly, but at the same time the borders of our country are constantly open to new immigrants who are helping and exploiting our system. Mr President! True Finns feel that the well-being of our own people should always be set in politics
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u67	Mr President! During this government, the handling of asylum seekers' cases here has in itself been very controlled. As you know, unlike almost any other European country, we have a controlled situation. At the moment, new asylum seekers are becoming quite moderate. In fact, the majority of people who come to Finland are students who are coming for work, and we very much need them here to improve the age ratio. A week ago, the government announced specific additional measures to prevent sexual crime and, at the same time, to ensure that a small minority among foreigners does not stigmatise the majority of those who behave in the blame. In this respect, too, the Government will do its work until the end, so that safety is the top priority in Finland and safety remains at the best level in the world. It's the first time we've had cops in ten years.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u68	By way of exception, another minister, Mr Terho.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u69	Mr President! The questioner referred to the exclusion of young people with clearly incomplete information, because, in fact, during this term of government, the marginalisation of young people has decreased. We have just received new information on this: youth employment has improved and youth unemployment has really come down. In fact, the direction is good in this regard, although there is still work to be done. You also referred to the cuts, and I say that all cuts are the ones agreed with you at the beginning of the parliamentary term. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u70	Mr President! The measures taken by the government, for example in the field of immigration policy, have been rather modest, and many of these reforms will be transferred to the next government. Mr President! After all, politics is about value choices. You, Minister Orpo, have said that better care for the elderly would be out of place, such as home care. So you are putting these two things against each other. If you take money from something, then you move it somewhere else. This is, of course, part of the policy. But it is incomprehensible to hear that you would also take a little money away from the welfare of Finns and not, for example, from harmful immigration. We Finns, on the other hand, would take the money away from immigration, making enough money for both raising the nurse’s size and home care. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u71	Minister Orpo will answer, he understood the question of these lunches.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u72	Thank you, Mr President! It would also be good not to deliberately misunderstand what has been said. When we have a certain number of carers in Finland at the moment, who can do those important services for the elderly and help our elderly, I have been concerned that if we are making movements where nurses are quickly added somewhere, then we must ensure that they are not excluded from important services for the disabled or from child protection or from home care for the elderly. So you always have to think about making decisions, how to make them rational. So the conclusion is that when we want more nurses for our elderly, we need to train them or promote work-related immigration. That sounds good, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u74	Since this Question Time began six minutes late for a reason, this Question Time will be extended a little. The next question is Mr. Tanus.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u75	Mr President! Today is the International Day of Rare Diseases. Patients with chronic fatigue syndrome are one of our particular concerns. They may develop dramatic, completely invalidic symptoms. For some, the situation may look good, but rehabilitation or some other burden may completely collapse them to the bottom of the bed. The problem in some cases has been not only the treatment of these patients and their families but also the treatment or treatment of them on the public side. In Sweden and Norway, these patients receive treatments that are also available in Finland but only on the private side, with money. But Valvira has tried to limit this too. When the diagnosis is limited to a functional disorder, these patients often fall outside Kela’s subsidies and the economy also collapses. I would now like to ask the ministers concerned: do you have any information on the problems of this group of patients, and how are they going to be addressed?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u76	Mr President! If you are referring specifically to CFS in relation to these rare diseases — that is, the group is extremely large, the rare disease can mean something that only a few of them can be found in Finland alone and in the world, that is why medical research is also particularly important — I am well aware of the group that suffers from CFS. This is a very active group, including the parents of children or the sick themselves, who feel that our public health system has not met them with sufficient seriousness. I therefore welcome the strengthening of this research data, which, of course, does exist in itself. We are also aware of the contradiction that these results are being denied, and it is difficult to take a stand without medical training. What is important, however, is that everyone gets proper care, can maintain their ability to work, their ability to function. For example, I think it is particularly important that these children can continue to attend school.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u77	Next question, Congressman Kalmari.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u78	Mr President! Basic electricity charges and transmission prices are excessive. Selling the power grid to Caruna was a mistake from Minister Pekka Haavisto. The same mistake was made in many municipalities. Caruna and Elenia are mainly owned by international venture investors. The job is to make money for the owners. Partly responsible for high prices has also been well-intentioned by the previous government for its statutory weather-proof electricity networks. Before all land arches have been paid, rural electricity users will have to pay a long penny. Fortunately, the construction of the network has been extended, the increase in transmission prices has become a ceiling and the electricity transmission must not generate too much profit. But there is one way to go. Minister Tiilikainen suggested that the electricity tax should be graduated as in Sweden. Parliamentary working group on sparsely populated rural areas
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u79	Mr President! Of course, the issue that will certainly also concern the minister responsible for energy, because tax policy is usually always linked to that substance. I do not even want to comment on this idea just like that, but I think that we should develop and take care of a broad tax base and tax collection as a whole, but constantly look at its impact on the lives of ordinary people, what kind of tax system we have, and see to it that the cost to the level of the household does not get excessive. Energy policy and energy taxation as a whole will certainly be one of the areas that will be considered in the forthcoming Government Programme negotiations, regardless of the composition, and that is where it is good to prepare these different models.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u80	Absolutely the last question in this Question Time, Mr Vikman.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u81	Mr President! Today is Kalevala Day and Finnish Culture Day. There is no culture and culture without Finnish literature and literacy. According to the OECD, the literacy of Finnish young people is still the world's top. However, the decline in literacy has been taking place for a decade. Especially with the boys. Eleven per cent of comprehensive school leavers in Finland cannot read well enough to succeed in further studies. Minister Grahn-Laasonen has pointed out the merit of strengthening literacy and literacy. The National Literacy Forum has been working on this theme. I would like to ask the Minister for Education, Mr Grahn-Laasonen: what measures have been taken to promote literacy and
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u82	Mr President! Good, versatile literacy is the basis for all learning, and it is important to include bedtime stories and common reading moments in the life and everyday life of each child. We set up a national literacy forum six months ago to draw up guidelines for promoting literacy and stimulating literacy, and that is where we all have the opportunity to be involved in our everyday lives. This has aroused a great deal of enthusiasm. We have got a lot of people involved, and not only is promoting literacy a task for kindergartens and schools, but it also requires parents and grandparents, organisations, libraries, all the actors involved in the worlds of children and young people. Adults are good at setting an example here, that is, when we know that literacy and enthusiasm are inherited, reading to children can inculcate the seed of literacy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u83	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 22/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u84	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! I would like to begin by thanking Minister for the Environment, Kimmo Tiilikainen, for the good work he has done around land use, construction, environmental permits and other aspects of this whole. In fact, much has been achieved in this period. When I looked at the situation at the moment when we are stuck or waiting for the permits because of the various administrative processes, i.e. authorisations, we have projects, and I actually received a fresh information from January this year, and it tells me that even now, even though these congestions have decreased and the permits have accelerated, we have investments of EUR 2.7 billion in the process of granting permits. If implemented, these investments would create up to 9,000 jobs in this country. That is why we must continue to make this licensing system smoother. When you look at what has happened this season, that line has been somewhat shortened — in 2016 there were 2.9 billion projects in the queue of permits — which is not very significant, though much has been done. Jobs have been created there, with these permits waiting for some 14,000 jobs. In other words, quite a lot of jobs have been created in Finland through this too. The heart rate had recorded the treatment of environmental permits, and the positive thing is that this period has seen the processing of environmental permits speed up from 19 months now to 15.5 months, when we talk about average times. However, the difference between the fastest and slowest avi in Finland is still around 6 months. In other words, the regional disparities are significant in these authorisations. In my opinion, we need a processing guarantee in this country, and hopefully this Creative, which is supposed to start in 2021, will harmonise this licensing process as a national operator from the point of view of all these permits. The issue at issue here today is that we are coordinating environmental authorisation procedures in such a way that an environmental permit, a permit under the Water Act, a permit for soil materials, but also a number of other permits, such as an exemption permit under the Nature Conservation Act, a permit under the Land Use and Construction Act, a permit under the Mining Act or a permit under the Act on the Safety of the Treatment of Dangerous Chemicals or Explosives, could be processed or processed in the future, at the request of the applicant, so-called coordination. This round table was actually used in 2015 when the Äänekoski bio factory applied for a permit. It combined the environmental impact assessment and authorisation processes and managed to process all these permits in four months, and no law had to be changed at the time. So a lot of this depends on the will. When we bring these different permit handlers and decision-makers to the same table and make and work together to find answers and solutions to problems and not to find new problems after one decision, we will get good results here. One of the central objectives of Juha Sipilä's Government Programme has been to streamline regulation, and this is a good presentation of it, and it is good that this is still time to finish this season. This proposal does not address either the substantive content of the legislation or the right to participate, but seeks to bring together the various authorisation procedures into a single package, so that the process can be better understood from the point of view of both the applicant for the authorisation and the potential sufferers. As the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection states in its report, the proposal does not in any way affect the right of appeal of the authorities, but we have also taken measures in this period. The right of appeal of the Ely Centres to change the law was changed a couple of years ago in 2017. That right of appeal was limited in terms of planning, construction and other use of the regions to national and regional matters of major importance. In other words, we were able to make it clear that the task of civil servants is, above all, to look for solutions, rather than, unfortunately, as has happened at some point, that complaints have been made about a decision taken by another official. It is better in this round table procedure to look together for solutions and then make a decision. And as I said earlier, this Äänekoski bio factory was a good example. Its all permit issues, Yva and other permit process, were dealt with in four months, when I first told you that we currently have an average treatment period of 15,5 months and the differences are very large in Finland. Mr President! This is a good presentation, and I thank the government of our country and Minister Kimmo Tiilikainen for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u85	Mr President! This government proposal is excellent and will continue to take the line that Prime Minister Sipilä's government has always been, that is to say, red tape has been dismantled and administration has been streamlined. However, it is worth remembering in Finland today all of us who expect the economy to improve and more jobs to be created, that, even now, we have billions of euros worth of projects in different licensing processes that are waiting for authorisation because officials are unable to make those decisions. If only all the licensing processes were right, I would bet that there is a lot of unnecessary things there that are not needed at all. Take, for example, a small power plant: If you have to make a bio-power plant, it will be made a hugely heavy yva survey and everything possible, and yet only Finnish energy raw materials will be burned in most cases. All emissions from there are known when power plant technology is known, but then it stands for years, for years in that administrative bureaucracy. I know from experience when there are a few projects in my municipality. In one of the bridge projects at the moment, a bridge building permit has been extended for almost two years, and it is still awaited. You'd think that crossing a small narrow river with a bridge... For the rest, all the clarifications have been made, but the permit is delayed and delayed and delayed. The entrepreneur is going to be agonized when transport connections do not play, and unnecessary risks are taken when you have to drive around a long distance and endanger other traffic with heavy traffic. Let this be an example of how we in Finland should gradually begin to understand that the administration is not for itself, but for the purpose of making our systems play fast and efficiently, and also, of course, for ensuring the environment and making good, safe structures and good solutions. But now, for example, a building permit or a building permit for some other larger facility, yes, now, for goodness sakes, construction technology in this country has been known for a reasonable period of time. Those permits should come very quickly, but there's a delay and a delay too, I don't know why. If all these licensing projects were quickly brought into transport, we would have tens of thousands of new jobs in this country. And think about the fact that every production plant, for example, operating in the foreign trade sector, i.e. exporting its products abroad, will bring a huge amount of added value to the Finnish economy, and when the project starts, even though it is now a mining project or something like that, it will be the first year that, through the investments, the state will receive huge amounts of VAT and other taxes. So we should gradually begin to understand what this is all about. Bureaucracy is raised and raised and believed to be the good thing, but it is exactly the opposite. Then we are wasting the resources of a small nation on what should not be overspended a single cent, but rather on doing so. We know how to deal with the environment, but it seems that there is still some learning to do in the administration.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u86	Mr President! This government bill is an example of how a bill that has been carefully prepared can be adopted unanimously. I say this because we may have a legislative proposal that sounds very similar in the eyes and ears of the layman, but which then comes from the committee in disagreement to the plenary. This law allows applicants for authorisation, for example now industrial companies, to combine the treatment of certain types of permits if the applicant so wishes. The applicant for an authorisation also has the possibility that the permits will be processed in exactly the same order as they are today. The amendment to the Mining Act to which I refer is that the mining company may submit an application for a mining permit before the environmental impact assessment has been carried out but may still retain its prerogatives so that, if the mining comes to that place, then the mining company in question is privileged to do so. However, this law, which is now under discussion, in practice limits situations where an environmental impact assessment is treated in parallel with an application for authorisation, to cases where the key point of an environmental impact assessment, i.e. an examination of alternatives, is not meaningful, i.e. where there is only one option in practice, such as the extension of an existing project. Instead, the amendment to the Mining Act, which is coming to the plenary session in disagreement, would allow an application for authorisation to be made and the mining company would have already chosen one solution, even if the environmental impact assessment and the related environmental impact assessment of the various options were still pending. These two government bill proposals are also examples of how different kinds of preparation can produce different results. This, which we are now discussing and which has been unanimously adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, has been well prepared and negotiated and listened to by the various parties involved. Instead, the amendment to the mining law I have spoken about has been prepared without a single statement. Not even the other ministries' statements have been requested.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u87	Mr President! A lot of good has been done in the Ministry of the Environment during this parliamentary term. Above all, thank you to the officials of the Ministry of the Environment, but thank you to others who have contributed to this, and our Environment Minister, Mr Tiilikainen, has made these things happen. The aim of this parliamentary term was to cut red tape, and environmental management has always been at the forefront of this. This government proposal too, this law, which is now being adopted, is definitely one of the best points of red tape. This law coordinates permit matters. This is very necessary and good, and just as that has already been said, as we in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, were quite in agreement on these points, and it is nice to agree here too, because you have probably been able to monitor the fact that we in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have often had very different views. Perhaps in the matter of mining law, which is about to come to this Chamber, you will also see how we disagree on these particular matters. This law has now moved forward with a common perspective that this law will help both the parties concerned and the civil servants to focus on its essentials at the time when each authorisation is being processed. In other words, when I was an official in the municipality — as an economic agent, as a municipal secretary — there were many times that the situation was not known at which point anyone should make a statement and which statement has what meaning and which I promise to start complaining about at any time. I mean, it was all the time that it was a mess, no one knew what was going to be taken care of at any time. I wasted a lot of time on everyone. That is why it is good that these permits are now harmonised, at the same time managing what is possible, so that a great deal of resources can indeed be saved for the proper management of matters. In the next parliamentary term, this will then be done through Creative, and I am also very pleased about that, because it will help that officials can really focus on handling the matter and not on who will take care of it at any time. Let's get this over with. So thank you for this law and towards the next challenges. On behalf of the Ministry of the Environment, on the committee's side, these seem to be running out of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u88	Mr President! The aim of this proposal is to speed up and streamline the authorisation procedures for projects affecting the environment. Exemptions under the Nature Conservation Act also come under the scope of coordination, and one might say that it was about time that these different types of permits were put together in the same context. I believe that when this law really begins, many will be thanking this proposal. The smoothness and streamlining and coordination of the judicial procedure was also a very important issue here, and I think that is also a good change in this. We are constantly lacking in justice resources, and I believe that, in the long run, this too will be able to lift the pressure there when different processes can be combined, so thank you also to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for having produced a unanimous report and in this way show that things can be carried forward in a good spirit.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u89	Mr President! Indeed, I have not been involved in this committee, but this involves the new ways in which the Government Programme operates its strategic work. The streamlining of standards is a key project in this area, and it is not only about promoting entrepreneurship, employment or employment by streamlining standards or facilitating people's daily lives, but also about making complaints more reasonable. Here Mr Hoskonen said that we have investments behind complaints, perhaps 2 billion, perhaps more. The procedure whereby the administrative authorities, the ministries complain about each other's decisions is rather difficult and I would not say a bit odd. In that sense, I welcome with satisfaction this proposal, this work which the Minister has done. Tiilikainen has done something to smooth the standards. We also need standards for construction, of course, but we need better standards, not necessarily less standards, and then this streamlining is particularly important in relation to the various complaints procedures or authorisation procedures, and I welcome this, Mr President, with satisfaction.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u90	Mr President! This is therefore a new law on the coordination of environmental authorisation procedures. A very good law overall. Good speeches have been made here on this law, and when this was in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, the committee received a unanimous report on the subject — a very good starting point. All in all, this bill is based on the Sipilä Government’s plan to streamline regulations and standards by reducing standards and red tape and coordinating authorisation procedures and thus making people’s everyday life easier in practice. In recent years there have been far too many different authorisation procedures that prolonged major projects, both environmental projects and different design projects as well as construction projects, and it is therefore a very good thing that this is a matter that has now been addressed and sought to streamline practices. This government proposal, too, is to streamline regulations without jeopardising the objectives of environmental protection. It is also a good starting point for not jeopardising the environmental objectives that have been set. In this proposal of the government, I would like to emphasise this one-stop shop principle in such a way that the same visit, the same licence applications, can take things forward smoothly. All in all, a very good government proposal, and hopefully good practices will be brought forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u91	Mr President! It was good to hear that the committee has been able to move forward unanimously. This sounds very wise that it is possible to combine different types of permits if you wish, and it is of course important that at the same time, environmental protection objectives, for example, are not jeopardised. A little, President-in-Office, I was concerned about what Mr Hassi said earlier about the fact that the preparation of the Mining Act has been a little different. So there has been very poor preparation and, of course, when it comes to Parliament, it is not at all desirable that this should be the case, and that is why I would like to express my concern about this. There has been talk here of these standards and the dismantling of regulations. I think it is the right idea, and it has been done for a long time, in fact, in the previous period, through these tubs, and I think it is quite clear that if there are so-called unnecessary standards, then it could be thrown into the wastebasket. But certain standards are also needed, such as to protect the environment or, for example, the quality of construction, such things. But, President-in-Office, when we were talking about these standards, there is one thing that I would like to raise here, in fact, when there has also been a slight increase in standards in this government. In my opinion, last season, we had a very good citizens' initiative on the energy certificate initiated by the Union for Homes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u98	Mr President! Two more points of view. First of all, the general concept of dismantling standards and red tape is that it will probably be supported by most people, but there will still be practical examples of what seems to be the need for more standards and, for example, more control by the authorities. The news of what is happening in the care facilities of many companies, including the public sector, is a good example of this. Then to this government proposal: I would also like to point out that the government's proposal is written from the point of view that, as it were, the public authorities' customers would only be those companies seeking permission for a project. After all, customers, if such a word is to be used in this kind of context, are also those people who live in the sphere of influence of this project. This legislative amendment extends the period of appeal so that, when combined with the environmental impact assessment and the application for this actual permit, the appeal period should be at least 45 days and at most 60 days. The Committee on the Environment stresses that whenever a public authority decides whether it is less than 45 days or 60 days or between, it must be looked at in terms of the scope of the matter, so that the public really has the opportunity to look into it during the time of its appeal, because in a way, if citizens want to take a stand on this project, it will be a bigger one. The committee also points out that if such a project were to be announced, it would be published for comments, and if it were to take place during the holiday period, then it would prefer this time of appeal to be from a longer point of view and not to use it for the shortest opportunity, but for a week or two longer.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u99	Mr President! The representative, the chairman of the committee, Mr Hassi, raised an important issue and, as the report of the committee he is chairing points out, this is precisely what it is for those who may have a need to be affected by the authorisation process. In fact, they will have better opportunities to intervene. And, as Mr Hassi said, this period of appeal will be extended, but then there will be the one entity around which this examination can be made, and there will not be what Mrs Maijala pointed out that there were thousands of different points and different stages where one should have been able to react and influence. Now is the clear picture around which it is time to make this possible complaint or correction of those to whom this applies. I personally welcome the fact that we have also moved towards this so-called 'one-stop shop' principle: the electronic hatch, from which documents are then distributed wherever they need to go. These are good reforms that have been taken forward in this period. As I said earlier, we have been able to get more work and employment in this country, new jobs, through this too, speeding up the processes of the authorities. In 2016, there were still around 14,000 jobs in the permit queues and 2.9 billion projects, and now we have reached that 9000 jobs. There are still 2.7 billion different investments waiting for licences, i.e. they are still in the process of processing this permit. So there's still work to be done. As I said earlier, it is good that: Creative will harmonise practices, because we have too large regional differences in the handling of these permits. There is a difference of up to six months between the fastest avi and the slowest avi, and it is quite unreasonable.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u100	Mr President! The Mining Act as such is not part of this, but it is the same whole, in the sense that the clarification of environmental authorisation procedures is also at stake in the Mining Act which we are currently working on. It is also intended not to have to start applying for unnecessary permits, but to be able to deal with it more clearly with the documents already under way. In that sense, it is a very good proposal, and it is part of this same whole, which is why we are dismantling red tape and we are definitely harmonising the authorisation procedures. At this stage, it is pointless to raise the question of whether or not it has been consulted by sufficient experts before it is in the Chamber. Then we'll take a closer look at that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u101	Mr President! Unnecessary bureaucracy should be a common hobby for all of us — and at the same time it is important to see where, for example, legislation and authorisation procedures are needed to protect the environment. Of course, there are such things. However, my sympathy is with the point raised by Mrs Viitanen. After all, this demand for an energy certificate for detached houses is incomprehensible when this energy certificate does not tell us about the actual energy consumption. If it would even indicate its actual consumption, it might somehow still be understood, but when it is completely theoretical, the computational thing — let’s look at the drawings of the house and then draw conclusions from it. Nor would it be anything to say on the basis of their drawings what the consumption is, but then different coefficients are used to describe it, which means, for example, that if you live in a geothermal heating house, which still needs electricity, and even if you buy it with a Saimaa Norp label, which is completely environmentally friendly renewable energy, a penalty factor will be applied to this energy certificate. Then you have to have a certificate for sale that does not indicate actual consumption, and of course you have certified who can give it, and then you pay more for it as the cost of living. These are the things we should remove, ladies and gentlemen, completely unnecessary, which do not really take forward the idea of saving energy, this does not drive forward the idea of saving energy. In the old detached houses this energy certificate is still lying there, and nothing has been done about it, but a great deal of silence has come about. Last year, when this matter was discussed and this citizens' initiative, mentioned by Mr Viitanen, on this matter — I listened to the speeches from the President's box — I felt that everyone agreed that this should be removed, and Parliament's decision came. I shall now stay and ask: where is this matter? There are almost 3 million Finns living in detached houses who run into this bureaucratic requirement, and if you look at sales ads, it is increasingly stated that the energy certificate required by the law is missing, because people feel that this is a nuisance and not any real information in trade. It is also not good for being law-abiding. In other words, these thongs are needed, but here would be an easy target with a lot of support if the government were to finish this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u102	Mr President! This is a government proposal and the report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the coordination of environmental authorisation procedures. This is precisely what it has been hoped for, not to use the time of companies and, above all, the time of the authorities, to go through the same things, so to speak, in the context of different authorisation procedures, on the same grounds, such as those of the same company. This will not only save costs for the authorities, but also give them time to deal with the next case. As we know and have heard in a number of speeches, because of the limited resources we have a lot of different projects in the queue, and when we also know the background that many projects are also being complained about just because they are being bullied, it is important that the authorities now have procedures, how to streamline these issues and still take care of the environment and safety. What has been central to the Norm is that safety is not compromised and regulated in such a way that it is for the good of the people, for the good of the actors. We have a lot of legislation on the basis of EU standards, such as this garage issue, which Mrs Viitanen has just mentioned – it is certainly well known that it comes from the EU and has a certain size that defines it – and it has been very good that during this government, however, these Finnish supplements have been removed from these regulations as far as the EU is concerned. We must comply with it — as was the case in that Question Time debate — that certain things must be ensured — but we do not need any Finnish supplements, but minimum requirements are respected. They must always be followed, but we must not do such extra, unnecessary national regulation, which makes it difficult for our citizens and businesses to operate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u103	Mr President! Now that the debate was also allowed on energy certificates, I fully agree that it would be sensible for us to get rid of this type of regulation altogether. After all, the EU Commission obliged owners to deal with the energy consumption of their buildings, and the owner had to do this only in older houses in the first place. In Finland, the energy certificate was originally not compulsory in small houses. However, last season the Ministry of the Environment felt that this was a problem because small houses account for about 27 per cent of the energy consumed by our country's building stock. Pia Viitanen, Minister of Housing of the last government, presented to Parliament in November 2012 a proposal for a new law on the energy certificate of buildings, and the law was completed quickly. In fact, it imposed an obligation on all owners of small houses to obtain an energy certificate for their house, and in fact this is what Mrs Heinäluoma, who has already left the Chamber, referred to. This new, housing minister, Pia According to the law presented by Viitanen, old electrically heated small houses ended up in that G-energy wasteer category
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u106	Mr President! It's all right. Let's go over that history. When I became Minister of Housing halfway through the last period, this energy certificate had just become a necessity from the EU, these odds, and also old detached houses...
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u115	Mr President! Although the government's proposal to coordinate authorisation procedures is now under discussion, this debate has now turned to energy certificates and, in practice, energy certificates for detached houses, which we in Finland should have at the moment. I myself have listened warmly, with interest to this debate, and I agree with the representatives of Viitanen and Heinäluoma that we should improve the practice of energy certification at the moment. At the moment, energy certificates are very calculated and the way they are calculated takes into account different coefficients and variables. I myself would like to see an energy certificate based more on reality and on consumption, how exactly the energy consumption in a detached house goes, and also taking more account of where that energy comes from and what energy is used in that detached house. All in all, when I myself recall how this debate took place last season and this debate on energy certificates was held at the beginning of this period, I personally welcome the idea expressed by the Omatomatoliitto and how they feel that energy certificates should be drawn up. All in all, however, the issue of energy certificates has come to us from the EU and European legislation, and then it has been put into practice in our laws and regulations, through regulations. I have noticed — just as, I think, Mr Heinäluoma told me — that when you look at the sales announcements, there are still quite a few sales announcements that there are no e-certificates there, however. Personally, I hope that, now that these e-certificates are required, the e-certificate prices will not be very high either. The debate took place during the last period, in particular, where the price level rises when the energy certificate is drawn up. I personally hope that, overall, this debate on energy certificates will be brought up and addressed well and made more practical.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u116	Mr President! I will come back to this matter of energy certificates, which also falls within the remit of the Ministry of the Environment, and which is important when we talk about these red tape. I must say that I see no reason why such a witness should be required in old detached houses. Why can't I see? Because it does not tell about actual consumption and it is very difficult to estimate from these drawings what it is about actual consumption, because the question is that when houses are old, what do those drawings tell about that reality anymore. Nor should we underestimate the buyers of a detached house. They will see what form of heating is there, whether there is oil heating, for example, whether there is direct electric heating, whether there is geothermal heat or whether there is air heat pumps or water heat pumps, and on that basis they will draw conclusions. And then, of course, when you look at how much oil has gone and how much electricity has gone, you can see its actual consumption, and you can look at it for a longer time. This is a model of regulation that comes from the reality of other countries. In Finland, people still live in detached houses, i.e. nearly 3 million people, but this is not the case in Germany or France or Italy. In these countries, the starting point is the reality of apartment buildings, where this legislation with an energy certificate is easy to implement. Although I am not quite sure how many Italian blocks of flats this has been introduced — a little venture to suspect that the attitude towards these regulations is not quite the same as that we have here. But for us, this is a problem, it's being bullied. In the new houses that are manufactured and drawn, it will probably come in connection with its normal design work. But I still ask whether this should not be a common interest for us to remove this, just as Parliament decided last season that Finland should make a proposal to the EU. During this period there was supposed to be a review of this directive in which this proposal could have been made, but now there has been a strange silence. I believe that this should not be a party political issue, but a question of common sense. This requires us to consider these provisions, which we are also being offered in the European Union, and then see if they are reasonable, whether they lead to the good cause that has been said, as in energy consumption. And as you see it, it comes to the conclusion that this energy certificate in this regard is a waste of money for old detached houses and throwing money into Kankkula well.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u117	Mr President! Let us correct the mistake: the news in the big national newspaper was wrong, which I also showed to Mr. Viitane. There he had this energy certificate put on all the houses and fixed it. In other words, this was in November 2012, and Krista Kiuru was the Minister of Housing, but she was also a Social Democrat, or Social Democratic Housing Minister, and this was extended to all houses. And now I am pleased that we have a fairly consistent view here that energy certificates should be removed when they do not reflect actual consumption and do not even give a real picture of buildings. But this has now been corrected, and I regret that, on the basis of that incorrect news, I mentioned the wrong Social Democratic Minister for Housing as the author of this measure. It is also a matter of its own, then, of fitness assessments, which are very wild West activities in this country, but do not go to them this time. But that was how it was fixed, and the matter has been closed for me.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u118	Mr President! It is all right that it became clear that, for my part, I became a minister at that interesting stage — it is a great honour to be a minister and to be faced with new challenges — and this citizens' initiative really did come at once. It was wonderful to think that for a moment, now as Minister, I can act on the will of the people, at least to say that if something is wrong, then I am prepared to correct it. Not that it is said that the new law, the EU forces us, we cannot do anything, hands up, but then we have to assume that if the EU does, we too could — in those years the EU was talking very loudly about the norm, the REFIT spirit was there — then we had to get on with it and not raise our hands. And likewise, if national legislation had problems with this formula, I was ready to fix it. I sometimes had to look at the terrible records of what came out of that directive, where there was an attempt to explain why the shape factor in some form is mandatory, and I remember reading from that Parliament toilet that such a text exists here. But things have been made to be changed, and that is why this process was launched. I also thanked the Omatoliitto, who had made this valuable citizens' initiative, which was followed by two statements from Parliament. But what is the reason why we are obliged to do this at the moment for old detached houses and why we have had these formal coefficients in terms of content is that it comes from the EU directive, which initially did not, for example, include such a compulsory coefficient, and at first Finland was not even obliged to include old detached houses in it. But that directive and its interpretation changed along the way in the process in the EU, and it was then, I think, this crucial change, which, as it were, forced Finland to adopt the law to which Heinonen referred at the beginning of last season. It came from the EU during the period when the Minister of Housing was the Vapaavuori of the Coalition Party. I explained these backgrounds very carefully, and I would remember that the EU process at this crucial point will rest on those years. I'd love to review these because this was an interesting story.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u119	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 34/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u120	Mr President! We had a little discussion about this, which was a little off the table at the time. The problem or uncertainty of the situation is also well illustrated by the fact that new movements have taken place around this Brexit in recent days. Personally, I still strongly believe that the British will make a mistake if they finally end up leaving the European Union. I hope that a new referendum will take place there and that they will end up being better off, from the point of view of the people of Great Britain, but also of Great Britain, that they will continue as part of a common Europe and of the European Union. The British have been asked to register in Finland for a possible Brexit, but this legislation, which is now under discussion, actually allows some five thousand British citizens and their family members currently in Finland to live in Finland with a residence permit until the end of 2020. In other words, this is, in a way, a transitional legislation that allows people who study here, work here or otherwise live in Finland to continue living in Finland. The UK's resignation from the EU would be regrettable in many respects. It would be reflected in the direction of Britain, but also in the direction of Europe and Finland in many respects in the economy, and it would also be a major security issue, and that is why I still hope that the British will reconsider their situation. But, of course, every sovereign state and every nation makes its own decisions, and it is good that we are now in the forefront of preparing for the British people to continue living here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u121	Madam President! Just as Mr Heinonen said, so little was done and this Brexit debate, which had been here last week, or, in fact, the debate on how Finland is preparing for the Brexit to actually happen. The British people's decision to leave the EU must, of course, be respected, the vote was clear and the parliaments of other countries should not be cast a shadow over it. Of course, everyone has the right to reflect on the benefits and disadvantages of Brexit, and this will certainly happen to a very large extent. We had the opportunity, some Members of Parliament, to have lunch with the British ambassador at a meeting organised by Mr Salolainen, and there we heard his very last thoughts and views on the Brexit. After all, the situation is becoming quite clear and raises a number of questions if Brexit is to have an extension on the EU side, if negotiations may then be reopened; between the EU elections, where Britain is not setting up any candidates. This would require a wide range of rapid legislation in almost all EU countries, so it would be quite interesting in Finland too, if I may say so, to see this situation in Britain in the coming months. However, the good news is that Finland bears its own responsibility and protects and guarantees the right of British citizens living in Finland to reside here. In this way we can do and ensure that they are here in Finland in such a way that they have no worries and sorrow and do not have to consider moving away from here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u122	Mr President! When we talk about Brexit at all, we think of a modern fashion term such as ‘election influence’,the fact that foreign countries are trying to influence the results of votes by different countries. With regard to this Brexit, almost all European countries attempted to influence the British vote before the Brexit vote. Even the President of the United States came to speak against Brexit. Is it not, then, to influence the election if the consensus politicians think it is the right thing to do? But in view of this change in law itself, this is a model example of what can be done when a desire is found, when a law can really be enacted, if it is needed, if it is to be regulated and not explained, but if it is to be found. It was now discovered that these arrogant pieces of mercy in the EU were not good enough for the British. As a result, it was discovered that Britain is about to resign without an agreement, a spoon was taken into a beautiful hand and was laid down — or made such a proposal, since that law has not yet been enacted. Here is an example of a law based more on practicality than on principle. The British people are given this privilege because not giving it would lead to an unacceptable situation and, on the other hand, we expect a response from Britain. That's good. I would like to see the use of such a healthy common sense spread to other legislation, such as that if there is a country in which a Finnish cannot buy land, the citizens of that country would not be given the right to buy land in Finland. Or if there is a country that does not accept its own nationals who are being deported from Finland, there would be no aid or development aid for such a country and the citizens of that country would not be allowed into Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u123	A point of order 6 will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report TyVM 14/2018 vp by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities. A statement on the report will now be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u124	Mr President! There is therefore a report from the Ombudsman for Equality. After all, he used to be a member of the minority council, but when this task has expanded, the title has also been changed. The Non-Discrimination Ombudsman's report highlights the findings of Finnish equality. This time there are nine different recommendations in this report, some of which concern the need to amend the Equality Act, some concerning the status and rights of foreigners in Finland and improving the status of victims of trafficking in human beings and assistance systems. The various committees which have delivered their opinions on this to the Committee on Labour have stated — and the Committee on Labour agrees with this statement — that the report gives a comprehensive picture of the broad scope of the work of the Ombudsman for Equality and of the main problems it raises. This report states that it is important for the promotion of equality to be sufficiently known that we have comparable and regularly collected data and research data, which can then be used to make policy recommendations and to think about how things can be carried forward. This is why the Councillor proposes such a barometer of discrimination, and this is what the committee agrees with in its own report, there is a need for this. The second point, which is probably true for all the delegates, but especially for the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman: it is a question of resources. That is why this report, too, has focused on certain issues, not on the whole scope of the job, but only on certain issues, and apparently the idea is that every year a little more detailed examination of the different issues is always being carried out. This committee is also concerned that these resources are still quite limited, and the committee notes that we need to consider how to make better use of such common communication or administrative resources. One of the key issues is discrimination in working life, where the Ombudsman for Equality has raised questions of competence. This is actually such an old question of competence, that what are the health and safety authorities doing and what is the equality ombudsman doing? At the moment, the idea is that the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman would be on the side of such a broad picture and then the health and safety authorities, as it were in individual cases. When this was being prepared, alternative models have been the following: a model in which the supervision would be exclusively for the health and safety authorities, or it would be exclusively for the Ombudsman for Equality, or, according to the third model, they would have a parallel competence. In other words, it was decided that it is not the job of the delegate to monitor compliance with the Equality Act, but that it is the responsibility of the health and safety authorities with regard to these matters of working life. The committee had a long debate on this and concluded that it had reservations about this extension of the mandate of the Ombudsman for Equality. It was based on the fact that when the health and safety authorities have a deep knowledge of working life and include, among other things, the monitoring of compliance with general binding collective agreements — they visit the workplaces and have a network of national offices — the balance, as it were, was drawn up in committee, and the committee took the view that ‘the committee is dealing with the proposal for an increase in the powers of the Ombudsman in the field of health and safety at work’. But, of course, we understood that there are situations in which we are dealing with a wider area of competence. The following proposal has been a partial reform of the Non-Discrimination Act, in which it has been suggested that, in the case of discrimination at work, the Non-Discrimination and Equality Board could, in fact, deal with matters without naming the victim. This is why it is important that the victim is often afraid of the consequences of raising his or her case. It was also suggested that the Board should be entitled to award compensation to victims of discrimination. This package, as it were, also includes proposals for reform in the field of educational institutions and early childhood education. The committee then dealt with the proposal relating to the right of the jobseeker to be informed, in all circumstances, of the grounds on which the decision was taken if he suspected that he had been discriminated against. We had a long debate on this, and we were thinking about it on both sides. On the other hand, it sounds fair to get those criteria, but on the other hand, the risk in modern recruitment practices is that if, in every situation, the employer is at risk of having to justify the choice particularly carefully to the applicants, then perhaps more headhunters will be used or these recruitment processes in general will be hidden, and that was the concern of the committee. That is why it was thought to be worth considering, but it was not directly related to this. The committee has also supported the extension of the report on the functioning of the Non-Discrimination Act. In fact, the research project on this is underway and its timeline is 2019-2020, and if this partial reform is to be carried out, it should be given sufficient time and be able to see what that study will bring when it comes to it. One major issue was the position of people with disabilities from the point of view of this equality law, and it is in fact the second most common ground for discrimination against the Ombudsman for Equality. The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities contains provisions on accessibility, reasonable accommodation, and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities agrees in its own report that the Ombudsman’s report states that, in order for these rights to be realised, ‘the legislator needs to take active measures and to understand disability and diversity at different levels of society, and to create an accessible and accessible society and also to interpret fundamental rights and human rights’. The Committee notes that more effective measures to promote non-discrimination are needed in order to improve the equality of people with disabilities in working life and the right of people with disabilities to work and to provide us with more effective monitoring of discrimination and to raise awareness of what is discrimination. Very often, people feel that ‘individual discrimination’ but it was important to understand from a legal point of view discrimination and social discrimination. In its own report, the committee highlights the positions taken by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. In particular, the right of a disabled person to choose their place of residence was raised, and yesterday we discussed it quite a lot and fortunately in a good spirit. Accessibility and accessibility are one of the key issues. For example, the Councillor raises the risk of digital exclusion and stresses that when services are planned, account must be taken of the fact that not everyone is always able to obtain suitable equipment or is not able to use them or, for example, not getting bank IDs in order to log in to the services that, for example, public authorities transfer to the electronic world. The committee stresses the need for greater equality in these e-services, including plain language and the fact that these services are readily available. Then one thing that was on the table was the assessment of the impact on equality: how, for example, accessibility and accessibility should be taken into account proactively when legislation and reform projects are being carried out. This is where the committee agreed that we should actually have this evaluation as a normal evaluation process when laws are adopted. The Non-Discrimination Ombudsman also raised and considered the language — not only the plain language but also the native language, where our law requires services in this language — to be relevant. Then the next big entity is the status and rights of foreigners in Finland. I am not going to go through this very carefully, because there are many detailed issues here and they can be read in that committee report, but there are a few questions there. For example, legal protection in the asylum-seekers' process was strongly highlighted, and how it will be achieved in family reunification, taking into account the best interests of the child and in decisions concerning foreign nationals. There appeared to be specific shortcomings in the provision of appropriate support. The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities agrees with the views on how this scale and quality of legal aid services for asylum seekers work. The second point I raise relates to the burden of proof, how it is distributed, for example, in these applications for family reunification, and what happens in terms of living conditions. The committee stated that applications for family reunification for those who have received refugee status and subsidiary protection status should not be subject to a subsistence requirement, and this is particularly the case in the case of questions relating to the family life of one child and the care of the parents. These same cases involve ensuring uniform practice across Finland. The committee saw that the fact that these practices vary across the board is problematic and needs to be addressed. Recommendation 3 of the authorised report related to the law on the identification and assistance of victims of trafficking in human beings and to the issues underlying it. One of them was that the control resources for the implementation of the removal should be consolidated, and this was where the committee agreed. The second relates to what a firewall is when a person without a residence permit deals with the authorities and should be able to do his or her business without fear of an expulsion decision. And this is about the victims of trafficking in human beings. In this regard, the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities considered that consideration should be given to the removal of this firewall, but that this system should not create an automatic system that safeguards some kind of immunity to the absence of authorities who are illegally staying in the country. The fight against trafficking in human beings also relates to this report and made specific recommendations. Perhaps it is worth raising the issue of a system of assistance for victims of trafficking in human beings, which discussed whether there should be a separate law on this aid, or whether it can be in the way it currently exists in the legislation. That is the background to the fact that municipalities, for example, do not always know the obligations of municipalities to help victims of trafficking in human beings. The committee considered that if things were not known, would they be better known after that if there was another law in which they were recorded? In fact, we have come to the conclusion that it is rather a question of informing the person concerned, of training the person in question, and thus of increasing the familiarity of the law and the familiarity of the obligations of the municipalities. Then perhaps one more thing relating to particularly vulnerable people: when will further residence permits be issued? The Non-Discrimination Ombudsman proposes that the criteria for a continuous residence permit for victims of trafficking in human beings be changed in such a way that the victim's vulnerable status is sufficient to obtain a residence permit. Today, the legislation states that there should be a particularly vulnerable position, and this committee was behind the same ideas. Then, perhaps briefly, the efforts which the committee has made in this regard as a whole. In other words, the committee argues that Parliament would require that ‘the Council of State, after the completion of the research project on the effectiveness of the law on equal treatment,should not assess the legalrequirements for the integration of the family of persons enjoying refugee status and secondary protection status’,and that the Council of State should ‘take the necessary measures to harmonise the interpretations of the Constitution on the content of therequirement and maintenance of the
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u125	It was a lot going on, but...
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u126	Mr President! In my speech, I will focus on the issue of trafficking in human beings in Finland and the comments of the human trafficking rapporteur on it. I will base my speech not only on my work as a Member of Parliament but also on my previous career as a researcher of informal work and on the comments I have made as President of Pro-tukipiste. Pro-tukipiste is an association that has played a key role in creating the non-governmental sector of our human trafficking policy. In my view, we have serious problems with our human trafficking policy. The first is the link between the aid system and the criminal process, which has already been highlighted above. Think of it if we were to require, for example, a person who was the victim of a robbery before getting help from a health centre or receiving therapy services, for example, to participate in the criminal process. Imagine if, in child protection, we had a condition for protecting children to be involved in the criminal process. This is not what we do in social welfare and health services, but rights to social and health care services are rights to these services, regardless of the solutions that people make in relation to other public authorities processes. Well, why is this particularly problematic in the case of trafficking in human beings? Firstly, because we have many victims who are afraid to report a crime because they fear that human traffickers may persecute their loved ones in their own country or themselves in this country. They do not trust the Finnish authorities' ability to protect them and the things that matter to them. The problem is also because in many cases the victimisation of trafficking in human beings has taken place abroad and the Finnish police may not have any interest in initiating the criminal procedure. And if access to the assistance system here is tied to the criminal process, these people will not have access to the assistance system in this situation. The third situation in which it turns out to be problematic is the situation in which the investigation ends up in a lesser criminal code than the trafficking in human beings that justify the aid process or its related offences because it is not believed that there is sufficient evidence to prove the difficult nature of trafficking in human beings. In these situations, it may be that all relevant authorities and organisations are unanimous on the events of trafficking in human beings, but despite the fact that we do not believe that the documentation is sufficient and that the perpetrators are still wanted to be convicted, we cannot go on this heavier line, and the person is again excluded from the assistance that we have planned for the victims of trafficking. As a result of all of these, our system of assistance to victims of human trafficking is so unstable that many victims of human trafficking actually estimate that they will be better off without the help of Finland. At Pro-tukipiste, 13 victims of human trafficking were identified last year. None of these wanted a Finnish aid system. They felt that they had a better chance of surviving without help than the deal the Finnish State had to offer them. Okay, so this is a major problem with our system of assistance to victims of trafficking in human beings. Another problem is the proselytism clause in the Aliens Act, where suspicion of selling sex is the ground for proselytism, that is, the mere suspicion of selling sex. This leads to a situation where victims of trafficking are likely to be turned from Finland on the basis of sex sales, which naturally leads to these people not having access to the Finnish aid system, but also to the fact that human traffickers are not getting any conviction because there are no witnesses who can testify against them. The third problem is that of our legislation on access. A sectoral permit, a work-based residence permit in Finland, means that if a person has ended up in a job where conditions of employment are clearly violated, the characteristic of trafficking in human beings may be met, then he is not at all in a position to change that job as if he were in a situation where he could freely acquire a new job. Why is this a problem? Because, for example, HEUNI researchers have pointed out that there are indications that this prevents victims of trafficking from seeking help. So even then it is a matter of sacrifice for such a serious crime. We also know that in general, if workers themselves seek help for even less exploitation and exploitation, it will only happen after a new job has been found and, as it were, secure with that employer. The fourth problem in our human trafficking policy relates to the characteristic of trafficking in human beings, which is based on a number of categories, in particular on the distribution of sexual abuse, which is calculated mainly on the basis of sex trafficking, and on the other hand on the basis of occupational exploitation. This division is artificial, and it leads to the absence of sexual exploitation in the area of work-related exploitation, where the business idea has primarily been something else in the trade in human beings, such as domestic work, which very often involves sexual exploitation, although that is not the main thing about it. On the other hand, it prevents sex workers who have been victimized by sex sales from entering this system because they do not think of it as sexual exploitation, just work, and their own experience of what is the category does not face the categorisation of our authorities. Mr President! Together, all these factors lead Finland to remain a very unsafe country for victims of human trafficking and in Finland it is very difficult for victims of human trafficking to obtain assistance, support or protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u127	Mr President! The Non-Discrimination Ombudsman's report is a comprehensive document assessing the state of Finnish society from the perspective of equality. Tarja Filatov, the chairman of the committee, has already made a broad presentation, and I will briefly raise two points relating to each other: the status and accessibility of people with disabilities. According to the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman's report, disability has been the second most common ground of discrimination following discrimination in working life, which is why the delegate is contacted. We discussed the Non-for-sale Citizens' Initiative here yesterday, and it has already been pointed out that people with disabilities are not in an equal position with others. Finland has ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2016, but still Finland is not delivering in accordance with this Convention. Weaknesses exist in terms of housing, inclusion, work and work for disabled people, and also in terms of income. Under the UN CRPD, persons with disabilities must have equal opportunities to choose their place of residence and where and with whom they wish to live and are not obliged to use certain housing arrangements. You'd think it'd be obvious, but it just isn't. Effective equality between the rights of persons with disabilities and those with disabilities requires active measures from the legislator: understanding the diversity of disability at different levels of society, the conscious creation of an accessible and accessible society, and legal interpretation of fundamental and human rights. More effective measures to promote non-discrimination are needed in order to improve the equality of people with disabilities in working life and the right to work. There is also a need to strengthen the monitoring of discrimination and to raise awareness of what discrimination is and how it can be addressed. It is regrettable that, for example, there is still little employment for those who are able to work part-time, even though we have been talking about this for years — I feel that for decades. All people should have the right to participate in economic activities, to work and to feel that their work is meaningful and productive and beneficial to society. Another factor in feeling meaningful is getting paid for your work. It is therefore sad that people with mental disabilities, for example, are still often referred to as customers of the Social Services Office, even if they are entitled to use the services of the Employment and Economic Development Office. Of course, the Employment and Economic Development Offices would also need more training for employees, which means that they need more knowledge and skills, for example, on specific issues related to the employment of people with disabilities. Often, it would be necessary to go to the beginning along with others and also to guide employers. Employers should also know more about the use of reasonable adjustments and their possibilities to support people with disabilities in working life. Given the slow progress made, it is worth asking whether we should set clear recruitment targets for disabled workers and develop a range of support measures to enable disabled people to work for themselves. It is also particularly important for those who are able to work part-time to facilitate the integration of work and social security. Mr President! Accessibility and accessibility are essential for equality. Accessibility is not just a disability, as is still often heard or spoken of. Accessibility also includes sight, hearing, detection and perception, that is, the accessibility of all senses. The environment should be such that it is easy to move, see, hear, observe and perceive. A barrier-free environment is a good environment for all, and it does not cost any more to build it when it is taken into account from the start of planning, and that is why we should aim to have a barrier-free society. The digital environment must also be accessible and accessible. Different e-services create a lot of new opportunities, but at the same time they also present risks from the perspective of equality. In the danger zone of so-called digital exclusion, all those who, for one reason or another, are unable to obtain suitable equipment, use them or, for example, obtain bank credentials to log in to the services. It is estimated that there are currently nearly one million people in Finland who are unable, able or able to use digital services. Much remains to be done to promote the ease of use of online services and the use of plain language should also be invested in the design and implementation of services, guidelines and websites. We should create a system in which every citizen would have the right and opportunity to receive support for digital participation and inclusion. Libraries, free cultural work, youth work and schools, social and health services, organisations and elderly work could be used. Such action would prevent so-called digital loss. After all, this digital loss is also a problem for young generations, which are considered to be digital, which means that young people may well be able to operate in social media or social environments, but they may not be able to use official forms online, and this can easily lead to the digital exclusion of even young people. Mr President! Accessibility and accessibility should be taken into account proactively in the context of reforms and legislative projects and, as stated in the report of the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, consideration should perhaps be given to consolidating equality impact assessment as part of the legislative process and the preparation of Government projects. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u128	Madam President! In this first speech, I will focus mainly on two points. First of all, this is the first report by the Ombudsman for Equality produced in a very high quality and with high ambition, and that is why it has also been read very carefully. The observations and speeches that have already been made here are also to be welcomed. I shall now focus on two issues which I believe have not been addressed by the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman and which I would have liked to have been addressed because both of these are very obvious in Finnish society. First of all, discrimination against citizens with Christian convictions at a university. It is well known that a person known to have Christian convictions has much less access to any university in Finland than other people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u131	Madam President! The Non-Discrimination Ombudsman's report covers a wide range of sectors. However, I would like to point out and draw attention to certain issues raised in the report and which I consider to be clear misconceptions. First of all, it is unacceptable that the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman has paid very much attention to the rights of the undocumented, their care, care and housing. In fact, the Finns believe that they cannot agree with the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman on this matter. The report by the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman also highlights strongly the so-called hate speech and its importance for society, which is able to point the finger at the population and its speeches in the current social situation. The Finns of Peru also want to pay attention to the issue of family reunification, which was widely mentioned in the report. In these situations, it is quite problematic that people who have arrived in Finland have also used our system in such a way that, especially in 2015, and since then, almost only young men and young boys have come here in search of family reunification. Similarly, the Finns of Peru consider it problematic that the importance of the family for integration is taken into account so crucial that it is considered that in these cases the income requirement should be removed. We cannot support this development. The Finns also want to remind you that we want to continue to consider the availability of labour for workers from outside the EU and the EEA. This is because we want the primary aim of preventing labour market distortions through cheap labour and thus also to protect the Finnish worker. I therefore raise an objection to the report of the Ombudsman for Equality, which reads as follows: ‘The Board of State requires that the Council of State refrain from taking any action on the basis of When you look at these recommendations here in the second paragraph, it is precisely this that ‘family reunification applications should be made subject to the incomerequirement’,even if there is no apparent hope that families will be maintained,so that they can be taken to the whole family. In Recommendation 3,the receptionservices did not stopthe adoption ‘For persons residing without a residence permit,it would be possible to consult with the authorities on the implementation of the We cannot be the social welfare office of the whole world so that we treat illegals, those who are illegally present in this country, all sorts of measures and services. Will we then go to the point that when the prisoner is on leave and decides that I will not return to prison, he will be allowed to deal with the authorities without fear of being arrested, he will have an apartment, food and livelihood, and never have to go back to prison.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u132	Mr President! From the outset, I support Mr Lehdo's views and support the amendment he has tabled in his protest. This is an important subject in itself, particularly as regards the rights of people with disabilities and the discrimination at work that have been raised earlier in the debate. I am also pleased that the representative: Mr Laukkanen also expressed important views on religious discrimination with regard to the native population. As far as this report and the report are concerned, it is a pity that this delegate, like many other similar delegates, is going out in its duties of really harsh and flagrant ideology, influence and politics.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u137	Mr President! Just briefly, when the group that the committee has heard was questioned, I would remind you that the committee unanimously elected all those who had been consulted. It has also included the representation of the Finns of Finland when they have been selected.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u138	Madam President! Unlike the representative of the Finns of Peru, who spoke here before Mr Filatov, I would certainly be the first to thank the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman and his entire office and staff for this very extensive and comprehensive report, which in any case seems to me to be nothing as if a gesture of one ideology or direction or whim or will, but is based on fundamental human rights, equality and equality, not only on national views, but also on the international agreements which we have committed ourselves to, and for which we have worked long-term for decades, for centuries, and we must certainly do so in the future and from now on. It is good to remember that when we talk about equality, we talk about people, individuals, identity and equal opportunities for everyone to build their own life and future in Finnish society. With all my heart I hope that this is a goal and a state of will that everyone in this house wants to join. Regardless of the political background we represent, every person's life and potential has value and should always be supported. The report is very broad and comprehensive. It's done a hell of a job. It raises and takes a strong stance on issues such as the implementation of the rights of Sami, Roma, disabled persons, foreigners and victims of trafficking in human beings. The committee's opinion is also comprehensive and deals with a number of issues. Perhaps the part of this which, in my view, is missing in part, which I would like to raise, is precisely hate speech and racism, because, according to the Office of the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman, the origin of man is still the most common ground of discrimination, which is reflected in these complaints as regards the Office of the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman, and that is why I would like to raise this particular point. This, of course, also goes hand in hand with the fact that these issues have not been made clear in the Committee's opinion, even though they exist in the report. And this is also mirrored by the fact that when you look at the list of people who have been consulted, there has actually been no consultation of people with different ethnic backgrounds other than the Roma Advisory Board. For example, the Advisory Board for Ethnic Affairs could have been one of these gathering bodies. I would like to point this out, not as an accusation, but as an observation, that these are precisely the points we are talking about, for example, structural discrimination or racism. I am not saying that this act is, as it were, racism, but it raises the question that not all people still have the same access to those situations and opportunities to be heard, make their own voice heard and also affect society so that they can also be dismantled. A short time ago, an extensive study was published at EU level on the role of black people, Being Black in the EU, and unfortunately Finland became the number one. In other words, when we talk about racism, it is perhaps even more acute for us at the moment than ever before — interlinking with working life, interlinking with living, studying, wealth, pay, cross-cutting all sectors and sectors of society. In this way, I personally believe that we should make an urgent effort to create a very systematic, long-term anti-racist programme, which is precisely addressing the structural problems, so that we can take the next step, as it were, in saying that we do not accept racism or that racism is wrong. Then we have to go into those structures, understand that today, for a great many people, simply because of their identity or background, the possibilities are not the same, but in different ways they come forward at different stages of life. When we talk about a long-term anti-racist programme, we have one reference next to Sweden, where work has already been done on a very broad and long-term basis. I was at the ministry myself, where it was presented specifically from the perspective of the black Swedes, which is their position in Swedish society today. The results of the study were alarming, but what gave us hope was that we finally had statistics and figures. And I saw the shock, at the same time, but at the same time the relief, on the face of the many people who attended the event, because it understands that their own experiences are not, as it were, personal experiences or something that is wrong with me or wrong with me, but they are phenomena associated with the experiences of many people in the population. An alarming study was also that when studying the position of black people in Sweden, it really did not matter whether a person was born in Sweden or had moved there at some point. The experiences of discrimination were very similar, both in the education sector, in employment, in pay levels and in opportunities for progress in working life, for example. I believe that this is the data we need to collect in Finland as well, so that we really get the real picture of where we are going, and through it we create systematic steps, which means anti-discrimination and the dismantling of these structures, when we talk about education, when we talk about the position of people at work, the possibility of employment, the possibility of moving forward in working life, the establishment of a family, livelihood, housing. Like I said, these are cross-sectional questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u141	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Toivola for his excellent speech. Always a representative After the Toivola, it's hard to come here and give speeches. Thank you also to him for his tremendously good work, the tremendous work he has done in this house over the last eight years. I don't like the feeling that Jani won't continue in Parliament after this season. You are very important to us, and I would like to say that you have been a pioneer in this house, the first Afghan MP. It is amazing, and I feel that you have opened up, for example. for us immigrants like myself and many other doors to enter this society and this Parliament. — Okay, this speech may have gone a little in the direction I had not planned for it to go. I would like to thank the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman and his office for this valuable and necessary review. This is a very broad overview and deserves tremendous thanks. Equality should not only be a word or a set of words used in solemn speeches, but it should be everyday, and thank you for your work on what you are doing in these matters. Your work is necessary. I came here to criticise a party whose name is the Finns, but of course their representatives went away. This is an exciting situation when they dare to come here and criticise this absolutely brilliant report but then do not want to listen to the answers we give them. This was actually one of the strangest protests I've ever seen in this house, and I've seen strange protests in four years. I want to go over a few points when the weird throws were right here: First of all, this objection begins with the fact that ‘the Basic Finns cannot accept that the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman attaches a great deal of attention to the rights of the undocumented. “ Wow. This is kind of an exciting angle. It is a very human matter, in a way, to concentrate partly on the rights of the undocumented. In Helsinki, we made provision for the necessary action that the paperless will receive additional health care with a very small amount of effort, and it has been very effective. It also preempts many health expenses, and that is wise, very wise. But it is exciting that, in this protest, the Finns of Peru link it to the fact that they say this: “The Finns of Peru consider that such provision of services weakens the situation of the population. “ This is really thick. Now the same party that has spent two years in the government cutting students, pensioners, unemployed people into the hall and is trying — excuse me — to make a little of this. It's a cheekless situation. The second point relates to criticism of hate speech: it is quite incomprehensible that it is a problem that the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman is talking about the need to reject hate speech. As a person who experiences hate speech, threats and all sorts of inappropriate comments, I find it strange that there is a party here that is obviously totally OK, that people are being barked at, that people are being silenced and that people are being threatened. Hate speech is a very serious matter, and it must be taken seriously. In fact, if we are talking about the police budget, for example, it would be good to draw attention to the fact that the police are given the necessary funds to eradicate this phenomenon. Moreover, I personally feel that there are so many grey areas in this hate speech that need to be narrowed down. The third point I want to address is that the Finns of Peru are now criticising family reunification, but it is exciting that, after a few sentences, they are talking about the fact that only young men have come here. Well, is there any reason why a majority of men have come here, that you sort of closed the doors? You set income requirements that only a few ten per cent of the so-called People's Republic of Finland do not meet, and then you complain that there are no women and children here. This is incredibly thick. Then this is linked to such a comment: ‘We cannot support such development because our population is a substitute for other people who may lose their jobs. “ I mean, excuse me. I thought that family reunification, for example, would improve people’s integration into Finland and thus help people to participate in this society. I thought, perhaps naively, that the Finns of Peru have such an intention that people would participate in society. How on earth is it away from some so-called centra Finn? This is a very strange identity policy that this party is building, and it is really strange to listen to it here, and it is very damaging. To this end, I would like to thank — I feel that my time is coming to an end — the Ombudsman for Equality once more, and thank you, the committee, for your work. This is a fine overview, and we should all be even more familiar with it. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u142	Mr President, ärade talman! I believe that this report by the Ombudsman for Equality and its handling in Parliament is a tremendous achievement and an indication that it is important to build such institutions, legislation that actually monitors, builds up, collects information and can be used to improve our activities and society. This is a unique institution, and we have every reason to protect it very strongly. I, too, would like to thank the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman. I can see that the whole office, or part of a small office, is up there on the balcony, and the work is really great. I hope that this report can be printed so that it can also be available to the next Parliament. It contains a wealth of information, researched information on different areas related to equality, non-discrimination and prevention and fight against trafficking in human beings. I believe that it is part of such a modern policy, a human rights policy that critically examines its own activities in order to learn and develop for the better. The realisation of human rights or the realisation of equality is a process and must be constantly considered how to respond to new challenges in society. This report is based on researched information, collected information, people's contacts, monitoring the implementation of human rights treaties, the implementation of our prohibition of discrimination and also the way in which equality is promoted in our society. In fact, for the first time Parliament has dealt with it so extensively, I believe that for the first time, if I remember correctly, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has also dealt with it, and I was glad that the opinion was in fact unanimous and that the other opinions of the committees and the report were almost unanimous. There is also talk in the EU that unanimity minus one is all right, and that is why I am not going to focus on what this minus one is. I think it is worth talking more about what the committees are saying and what the report is about. This is where Mr Toivola spoke of racism. I think it was a very important speech, and it is of course the case that the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman could certainly do very much more if he had the resources to do so. I do not believe that they are opposed to it, but it is also necessary to focus attention on some things from time to time, so that they can be thoroughly explained what has been done here, and there is a link between racism and the status of foreigners and the weakness of asylum seekers. I would argue that racism is one of the reasons why the status of foreigners is so weak, which is why the position of the undocumented is so weak in Finland and why insufficient attention is paid to the enforcement of asylum seekers' rights in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u143	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The Non-Discrimination Ombudsman points out in his report the accessibility of the digital environment, and the committee's report points out that various e-services create many new opportunities, but at the same time involve risks from the point of view of equality. In the danger zone of exclusion, all those who, for one reason or another, are unable to obtain suitable equipment, use them or, for example, obtain bank credentials to log in to the services. We in the Committee on Transport and Communications have had this same concern on several points. In connection with several legislative proposals on e-services, we have written in the report that the Committee on Transport and Communications considers e-identification services to be basic services for the information society, and we have been concerned about the equal status of citizens with regard to e-identification tools. The issue of access to an identification tool is fundamental and important for all citizens and consumers, as it is very often necessary today for access to and online access to e-services. According to the Finnish Competition and Consumer Authority’s Banking Services 2015 report, approximately 400,000 people do not have online banking credentials. These persons included, in particular, pensioners, unemployed persons, enforcement debtors, low-skilled people, young people and low-income people. Mr President! I therefore consider it absolutely essential that we ensure that electronic means of identification are made available to these categories of persons mentioned above. There are also other categories of persons for which electronic identification tools are a problem. There are, for example, persons who, because of their minority, illness or other limitations, cannot themselves do business electronically and another person is not entitled to act as an agent in electronic services, i.e. to do business on behalf of another person. Family carers often have similar problems when caring for their relatives, and parents of children over 10 years of age Kela has denied the use of Kanta services, in which case the parents do not see what the school nurse has registered for the child who has been 10 years old. It's a mess right now. As long as not all national laws have electronic identification devices, i.e. bank credentials, communication by letter cannot be abandoned. This is already guaranteed by the Accessibility Directive. I recently noticed that there are no important forms on the website of the enforcement offices under the Ministry of Justice, such as the application form for free months, so that the form can be printed and mailed to the enforcement officer by letter. The free monthly form will only open if you have BICs and if you are a customer of the enforcement. As a guest of a group that I led here in Parliament — a group called the Supporters of the Executioners in the Parliament — I told the Reichsvoud this observation that I made, which was revealed in the way that I tried to help an elderly lady and could not print out her application for the month off. This elderly lady herself did not have bank IDs and was therefore unable to log into the Ministry of Justice system, where the forms only open to enforcement customers, not to others. Progress has now been made so that the Kingdom Voyage has added these forms to its pages so that they are visible to everyone, and in that case the person will be able to print out the form and fill it out by hand and by letter. This traditional option, to act by letter, must be considered possible as long as we have people who do not have e-identification tools. And I would like to point out that there are 400,000 of them. Mr President! This week I have been told by the citizens that there will be one additional day for the processing of Kela's income support if the application is submitted on paper and not electronically. I am going to deal with this, because this is absolutely not the case. People must be treated equally in the granting of aid and no one must be discriminated against on the grounds that they are traditionally applying for it. If a person takes the income support application to Kela's office, it must be marked with the same date. The processing time of seven working days is absolutely absolute, and it is truly intolerable that Kela violates this law. Mr President! I warmly thank the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman for the important work he has done and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities and its chairman for this report and for the precise comments he has made.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u144	Madam President! A few words on the issue of digital exclusion, which this report has also drawn attention to. Digitisation increases as the obligation to do things digitally grows, and this is because it is no longer just an issue for older people, but is also related to many disabilities that a person can have. For example, there may be such a bad dyslexia that you cannot get different passwords properly in order to use different programs and authentication methods. This is an issue which should be dealt with in society at a much greater seriousness than is currently being done. Are we creating a crowd of people and living conditions for them that they will not want to be excluded? In social activities, a framework must be established for these people to be included in the services as well. Then I would like to draw attention to this dissenting opinion in the opinion of the Administrative Committee, which was very rightly and carefully focused on a number of issues relating to immigration, asylum seekers. I would now like to raise one point about this: the possibilities for family reunification for beneficiaries of international protection. These conditions have been significantly weakened and family reunification is becoming almost impossible. People who have lived here for four or five years, whose children know the language and are in school, suddenly get an announcement that they will be expelled from the country. It is good that the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman has paid attention to these. This is a flaw, and in Finnish society, which still considers the family to be a key social player, it should be assumed that family reunification of asylum seekers is also a central part of integration. I hope that this too will get the attention it deserves and, in the coming term of government, this too could in some way be taken into account again, that the family reunification of these people who have already been integrated into Finland would not be unduly restricted.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u145	Mr President! When that presentation was more like the whole committee minus one, if this is the new term, the vision, then I would like to say a few words from my point of view. I find it sad that we in this Chamber are questioning the behaviour of our delegates and accusing them of being ideological. The mandate and the legislation that the Parliament has decreed for them are in place by the delegates, and if there is a difference of opinion about the agenda as it were, then there is in fact a difference of opinion about what the Parliament has legislated for, and it is not worth blaming the delegates and their views. If, for example, the Ombudsman for Equality and his office, which has done a tremendous job here and has brought up topical issues in particular, it is worth noting that the task laid down for them by law is a key social objective in promoting equality, and that is when we talk about equality in a very broad sense about the matters which belong to them through the law. From this point of view, the fact that paperless people are strongly present in this report is quite the right choice, because it is a relatively new phenomenon in our society, it is partly the result of our own legislation and it involves a lot of things that affect the lives of other people, not only of undocumented people, but of society as a whole. That is why we should strive for a policy in which every person here has equal rights and where we would have as little paperless as possible. We should, as it were, reduce the number of people by means of legislative measures and not, as it were, by putting more and more people in that group and then accusing the group that we ourselves have achieved. I don't know if you understood what I meant, but I hope so.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u148	Mr President! It is so important that there are more speakers. Equality means that all people are equal. No one shall be discriminated against on the basis of age, gender, colour, ethnicity, sexual orientation or any other personal reason. The aim of the law is, among other things, to have equal opportunities for all to train and develop themselves and to oblige authorities and education providers to promote equality. The Non-Discrimination Ombudsman sheds light on the issues in which Finland has succeeded in equality, but also on those that need to be corrected, such as operating practices or legislation. My attention was drawn to the equality of children and young people in early childhood education and school. After all, it has recently become clear that private day care centres have many qualitative problems that stem from the pursuit of economic gain. It is not a coincidence or a small matter, because private early childhood education companies have taken on more and more farms and there are already many of them in our country. Currently, there are municipalities in Finland where up to 40 per cent of early childhood education is bought by private companies through service vouchers. The Non-Discrimination Ombudsman notes that this trend is intensifying as municipalities move more and more to acquire early childhood education with service vouchers, and problems arise in the fact that although the grounds for equality in the early childhood education law and national early childhood education plans apply to all providers of day care services, the obligation to promote equality in private day care centres is very poorly known. The old saying ‘out of the eyes, out of the mind’ applies, i.e.the principle of promoting equality is not known,so The business of private early childhood education involves, in principle, the pursuit of financial profit. This can be seen in action, for example, by minimising costs by employing as few staff as possible. When there are few nurses, there will be an increase in urgency and anxiety at day - care centers. There are days when nurses can barely cope with the basic needs of children. There will be no time for the child’s other needs — intimacy, upbringing and individual attention. When these private day care companies reduce costs, they have become truly unequal practices, such as the termination of a child’s care agreement, if the child needs special support, or when, for example, the child’s food allergy requires special arrangements, or if the child has specific linguistic requirements or other requirements which, in the opinion of this company, cause them special arrangements and costs. The reason is therefore that the company does not want to pay any extra costs because it would reduce its financial profit, but this is discrimination. Such practices are not in the best interests of the child and are certainly not conducive to the equality of children. I find it very bad that, at the same time as the Basic Education Act, the High School Act, the Law on Vocational Education and the Law on Liberal Education and Education clearly prohibits the provision of education for economic gain, this is possible in the early education of children under the age of seven. I therefore very much welcome the fact that the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman's report stresses that municipalities must select only those service providers who know and fully implement the objectives of the early childhood education law. For example, there must be no bypass lanes for the conclusion of contract terms for the child to be able to terminate a care contract because of the specific needs of the child. Quality, equal early childhood education is the right of each child and an important part of the children’s school path. Even in school surveys, the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman highlights problems encountered in the realisation of equality in schools: bullying, sexual harassment, intimidation and lack of friends. These are all factors that directly affect school comfort, school survival and the risk of dropping out of school. The loneliness of children and young people has emerged in the school health report last autumn, for example. Loneliness significantly reduces well-being because it reduces the sense of life management for children and young people and reduces satisfaction in life. The differences between young people are big, as fewer than 30 per cent of lonely young people are satisfied with their own lives, while 80 per cent of other young people are satisfied with their lives. Loneliness is also seen as fatigue and absence from school. In addition, almost half of lonely youths suffer from moderate or severe anxiety. And it is no longer news that children and youths repeatedly report bullying at school. Yet, bullying is still a distressing reality for some of the primary and secondary school students who are harassed at least once a week. The positive thing has been that bullying decreases when moving to the second degree. In all age groups, boys experience more bullying than girls. Mr President! I think we're running out of time. I will continue with this topic in another speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u149	Madam President! Mr Filatov said that there should be no guilt here or any charge against the Ombudsman for Equality, and I agree with that, but at the same time I would like to say that the Ombudsman for Equality does not enjoy any immunity. There are also different opinions and views about his solutions and his views, and I have been in contact with the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman on a number of issues in which I have had a very significant difference of opinion about his solutions and have not considered them to be fair. I have therefore wondered who you can complain to when you feel that you are not equal and do not promote equality. Then, of course, I will have to turn to the Ministry of Justice and perhaps the Minister of Justice. I just think it is important to understand and see when you read these reports that they are being done to us precisely because we are familiar with the work of the Ombudsman for Equality. And I say it here so that there is no misconception that I consider the work of the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman to be very highly valued and almost all solutions to be good, but then, on some of them, I would like to be able to draw the attention of the Office of the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman and perhaps initiate a constructive dialogue on how we can better understand each other. So, in my own speech, I do not want to blame or judge, but rather by my incomplete ability and way of initiating the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u150	Mr President! Of course, no one is outside the scope of criticism and is always allowed to criticise and debate, but I think that if all our delegates are labeled as ideological actors, it is sad. I did not mean Mr Laukkanen's speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u151	Mr President! The Non-Discrimination Ombudsman is, of course, a very good expert on what our legislation says and what human rights conventions say, but then it is probably the case that when you think about practical life, how to act and do it, there can always be different solutions. But I really trust the expertise of the Non-Discrimination Commissioner to keep an eye on what is happening around us all the time. In fact, I would like to say that important things are also happening, and I would just like to draw attention to them. This is related to the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman, but in fact it is a question of the decision of the Equality and Equality Board, in which the display of the Nazi swastika flag has now been clearly found to be contrary to the Non-Discrimination Act. I think this is significant. This will also make it easier for the police to act when this kind of racist or hate-inspiring activity is clearly being carried out, so it is good in the sense that this part of the equality law will also be introduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u152	Mr President! This has been a very interesting and opening debate. In addition to the discrimination experienced by Christians in the past, this has also been credited with the fact that men and boys as genders are being discriminated against — or are being discriminated against, whether or not they are being discriminated against — in the form of school bullying and exclusion, for example. If the concept is extended, then it is said that men even die younger than women, and it is because of something: what is it about the structure of society that causes it? Perhaps this would go further in favour of the Equal Opportunities Commissioner's camp, but in his report, as I recall, the Equal Opportunities Ombudsman indicated that he did not take a particular position on men's affairs, which was a very interesting position. But it will then be discussed separately when dealing with his account. There is a feature here that if someone is ideological, then they must be called ideological, and yes, there is such a clear ideology here, how is equality or discrimination perceived: what is meant by the word, where is the scope of the concept extended, what are the issues raised when dealing with it? We are not bringing men or boys, we are not bringing discrimination against Christians, we are bringing up completely different things. I think it is ideology if you bring up these issues in support of your own agenda and do not talk about others. I am surprised that the committee has not raised these issues of discrimination or equality other than those raised in its report by the delegate or asked him to do so later. In other words, there could be such improvements in this debate in the future. As for who can be questioned, where can be questioned, where can one question be questioned, if not in the plenary session of Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u153	Let us take Mr Filatov's reply and then Mr Taavitsainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u154	Mr President! I do not wish to prolong the debate, but I would just like to remind you that the delegate acts independently; he gives his report independently. The committee, on the other hand, takes the view that it either shares or does not share the views of the delegate, and I believe that this is the role of the committee. Then again, with regard to the role of boys, I think there will be more to that debate when we discuss the report on the report from the Ombudsman for Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u155	Mr President! I'm gonna go on with the school world and the bullying I just got left behind. This report by the Ombudsman for Equality states that young people from sexual minorities also experience more bullying and lack of friends. In order to improve, the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman invites schools to draw up an equality plan, taking into account individual learners and their families. In drawing up the plan, the students and their parents should be listened to. It is important to heed the instructions, for all means must be used to reduce the loneliness and bullying of children and young people, for as loneliness also has a negative impact on school attendance. Young people who are victims of bullying also face more problems in school and health, as well as drunken drinking. Mr President! The Non-Discrimination Ombudsman states in his report that equality is one of the fundamental rights and values of democracy and the rule of law. I warmly support the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman's proposal to strengthen equality work in early childhood education and schools. Equality must always strive for better, and there must never be room for discrimination, and this applies especially to the educational and learning environments of children and young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u156	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. Now, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 43/2018 vp, the opinion on the report will be decided. The Council of Presidents recommends that the debate take place at a rapid pace, following a presentation by the chairman of the committee, with a maximum duration of 5 minutes. Furthermore, in the order in which I am considering it, I agree with the response. Mr Jalonen, chairman of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u157	Mr President! So now we have a long-awaited report on this national transport system plan. This 12-year plan, as it is more clearly known, has long been long awaited and built in earnest. This has actually been based on a chain of three parliamentary groups, of which, of course, the latter is the source of this, but it has been built by all parties on a very stable and long-term basis. The first of these parliamentary groups has already been on the side of the last period, and it dealt with the debt of correction, then came this financial side, and now, finally, this system itself, which is now being dealt with. This is a big whole. The report describes the objectives and objectives of the national transport system plan, the process of drawing up the plan and the starting points for financing it. This is therefore a whole which deals with the road, the infrastructure, from the small road to the highway and from the railways in every direction, all modes of transport, including new modes of transport, which must be taken into account as new types of services and intelligent transport develop. This is therefore a long-term plan which, according to our view, will be based on such sustainable planning, which will also make reasonable urban construction and transport planning for the needs of business and competitiveness and also of course for all of us, the whole population. In other words, regional needs are also taken into account here, and these must also be harmonised according to regional and local authorities' own activities and plans, without forgetting the lower road network. And what is this system, the plan? This is an ongoing process which develops step by step and lives in time but does so in a systematic way. Since this is so extensive, we must involve all the key ministries, agencies, provinces, the largest urban regions and also the various actors operating on our transport network. On this timetable, I will read a section in order to get more involved: ‘Included in the report,the preparation of the national transport system plan can be narrowly divided into four main stages. The first phase sets out social policy objectives and targets for the transport system. The scenarios established at this stage and the targets at the level of the transport system will form a common vision in the Parliamentary Steering Group on the basis of impact assessments and stakeholder cooperation. In the second phase, an actual plan will be drawn up, and in particular an operational programme including a state funding programme. In the third phase, the role of the parliamentary steering group will be emphasised when deciding on national transport system planning. After the parliamentary examination of the reporting phase, the Government will decide on the national transport system. The fourth phase consists of the implementation and monitoring of the plan.’ When these steps can be seen as a sort of four - year package, or seasonally, this will really last and always see it 12 years away. In other words, this is very thoroughly prepared, combined and well thought out, but there must be an opportunity to react to changes in society. If a factory is erected somewhere — this report has taken the example of the situation in the Äänekoski plant — then the infrastructure must also be built in order to benefit society from this investment, so, in exceptional circumstances, this plan can also be made more flexible. But this parliamentary agreement, which is at the heart of the matter, must be respected and cannot be overtaken by the government according to its own opinion: let us go together in a structured manner and build up according to needs. Funding is, of course, an issue which is linked to this whole, and that parliamentary group has also been involved in it. Without stable funding, which takes into account the overall financing of society, this cannot be properly built. Nor can there be bypass lanes, but in new, big situations it must also be possible to build more rational entities through new policies and systems.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u160	Madam President! I found this parliamentary task force on the transport system to be a very constructive and pleasant experience. It was very ambitious and it was very clear that these current long-term lacks of planning were being dismantled and set out on the road, just as previous parliamentary groups had thought that something more long-term was needed than what has been so far. We understand that this repair debt in our roads, especially in our railways and bridges, is currently untenable as a situation, and that is why I thought it appropriate to join together in this group in considering these different options. The planning and long-term development of our transport system is key to the report. We need long-term funding and a plan that goes beyond government periods for the development of the infrastructure as a whole. However, good plans alone do not solve these problems; clear implementation is also needed. There must be a common understanding of the key objectives, which are the ones we can first, at the first stage, make greater progress, and which also have the most significant and most important impact for the whole economy and industry. It is therefore not possible to have a system which, as it were, tries to meet the whole need at the same time, but rather has to be long-term in choosing the areas of development that are most important to us in terms of competitiveness. Significant investments are needed to achieve the objectives of the development of the transport system. The working group therefore asked the Ministry for a very comprehensive assessment of what funding models could be used. We have been briefed on a very broad package, on the various options that the next Parliament can then apply and introduce. However, in the case of rail transport, the most important aspect of many new projects seems to be the development of the main line now in order to make it work, and also that, when it is put in order, it makes sense to develop and maintain it. There was also a great concern about how this eastern route and the settlement of all Eastern Finland and the activities that are and will take place there can be secured. It seems that Finland is strongly divided in two vertical directions. We have strong areas in Western Finland where there is a strong way of doing things that are getting new, evolving, where employment is improving, and then we have Eastern Finland, where the situation in many cities is getting worse. Tracks could be one such functional solution, if their development was also promoted to an important role in that direction. Since then, these different hourly tracks, both to Turku and Tampere, have become central targets. The cornerstone of this overall debate is the financing solution we will find. It should be so long-term that the effects of the economic cycle would not have as much impact on it as they might have on other activities. Nor should the use of debt money for carrying out these infrastructure projects be feared or excluded, but let us see what financial means are most beneficial to us. At the moment, Finland's access to funds for such projects is very good, our credit rating is good, interest rates are so low that even at a very high rate there is an opportunity to obtain money from the European Investment Bank or the Nordic Investment Bank. I think that this could be the kind of target that should be applied for, because this investment produces so much other good for domestic tax revenue and other income that debt should not be feared here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u161	Madam President! The chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications, Mr Jalonen, presented the unanimous report of this committee very well — and it was a unanimous report. This is a very large package, as we have already heard, a national transport system plan. In my opinion, it is very good in that report by the Committee on Transport and Communications that, when the debate took place, there was no single transport corridor project raised separately, but that it was the national transport system plan that was adhered to. But when Mr Laukkanen raised a few railway options here, I would like to say, as my personal opinion on those railway projects, that I hope that in the future all three major railway projects — the so-called main track and the so-called hour track to Turku and also the eastern railway project — will all be equal and will then be taken forward together. Everyone's very important. It is good that the preparation of the national transport system plan moves towards long-term, sustainable planning, which takes into account the needs of both urban construction and transport planning, as well as the needs of the business community. This is a large entity that must take account of all these issues and also of how urbanisation will be placed around these transport infrastructure projects in the future. It is also important that the development of transport system plans is a continuous, interactive and collaborative process: not just planning transport routes, but the whole, and involving large groups of stakeholders. As the chairman of the committee pointed out, the preparation of the transport system plan can roughly be divided into four main stages, the first of which will be social policy objectives and transport system objectives. Then, in the second phase, a real plan will be drawn up and, in particular, an operational programme including a financial programme. The third step would be the role of the parliamentary steering group when deciding on national transport system planning. Then the fourth stage is in practice the implementation and follow-up of the plan. It is also important that this programme is always updated and reviewed every parliamentary term. I personally hope that this will be a good plan and this can go a long way to the future in terms of how Finland develops.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u162	Madam President! We have had a new practice in recent years on the side of transport policy for this type of parliamentary cooperation. During the previous period, there was a corrective debt task force which issued its recommendation to reduce the amount of the correction debt, and the current government has carried out its task. Then, during this period, there were no fewer than two parliamentary groups: the first to reflect on this financial aspect of transport and to give its views on its planning, and now there is this second parliamentary task force, which was planning the 12-year planning process. And this has, of course, been a pleasant and interesting process in these last two working groups, since we have been able to tackle these major issues and problems in our transport and transport systems with a very large consensus. This new parliamentary planning process actually begins after the elections at some point by the new Parliament, and those who are there will then be responsible for how the planning is going. After all, the idea is that this parliamentary planning process will have to be rolled in such a way that this plan will be updated at least every four years, and that is why Parliament will always have its views on this plan to say and write it down. When the plan for that parliamentary process becomes — it does not take 12 years, but hopefully the first plan will be discussed by the Government and here in the Chamber very quickly during the next Parliament — the Government will, however, take the final executive decisions, even if this plan as a Government report comes to Parliament. And this is a good thing that the last word, however, is for the Government to take account of the prevailing economic conditions. So the long-term and parliamentary nature of this new process is good, which will hopefully lead to quality, far-reaching projects and greater certainty in the implementation of the projects. It is important that this parliamentary process does not revolve around individual projects but focuses on the overall system and its design from top to bottom. This new process is particularly welcome at this stage, when we have perhaps been in a somewhat exceptional situation during this period, the past four years, in the sense that there is currently no current report on transport policy that would be followed, but the last of these projects, which have undergone the transport policy reporting process, have been planned by the Jyrki Katainen Government and have been implemented, as a rule, for a long time now. Now we are in an intermediate phase like this when we move on to the new system. I am naturally in favour of this new procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u163	Madam President! It is an important parliamentary activity for Parliament: traditions, practices, including the order of business in a good way, taking them forward, but also good behaviour. Mr President! To brighten up this evening, you will recall the turn of the 21st century when Vice-President Mikkola, the late Vice-President Mikkola, guided me by saying that the representative always talks to the President here. For example, the representative does not speak to parliamentarians, not to mention the gallery audience, those who sit by the television or the Internet. Some Members of Parliament have always taken it upon themselves to embrace the whole world at once. I will stick to the good old teaching given me by the then Vice-President, so: Madam President! Let's get to the This whole report on the transport system is, in fact, a much broader and larger package than the report and opinion paper. In particular, the Sipilä Government and the Minister of Transport and Communications, Anne Berner, have now received an excellent document in cooperation with our parliamentary working groups, in which I myself have been involved in all three of them, so that we can also get a kick out of this transport policy. During this parliamentary term, it has been possible to bring an excellent sum to remove the correction debt, nearly EUR 1 billion. Of course, we need more for this year, there is certainly a deficit for this year, but the past period is good evidence that this funding can also be managed. Now it is a question of how, in the context of this transport system plan, the project companies and project planning raised by the parliamentary working group can be promoted in this regard. This issue of the Finnish Railway Company and the capitalisation of EUR 100 million is an excellent starting shot, with which the Turku railway, the Tampere railway, the Ostrobothnian railway, Oulu and so on and also the eastern track are launched. All three of them together, apparently over time, are total investments worth EUR 10 billion, which would not be financed by the state budget, unless some other projects were allowed to lapse again. Depending on the method of calculation, we currently have little investment needs for the infrastructure at between EUR 50 and EUR 60 billion. Each of us can understand that even future parliaments at this rate, which we can even think forward, would not be able to meet that need. New solutions are also needed. The state must act as the owner, as the director, to take things forward, but it must be said that this line of government and the Committee on Economic Policy is the right line and takes things forward. The comprehensive development of the railway sector and the promotion of major rail investment are at the very heart of this decision by the Government, and when the amount of government shares transferred to the balance sheet is in the background here, this will provide an excellent basis for the new government, for new government negotiations, for the way in which concrete financing decisions will then be made. Of course, they go along the path that the projects are ready for, then it is to Turku, which is certainly a project to be supported in its own right, as well as the railway to Tampere, the Ostrobothnian railway, how far it is thought of, as well as the eastern railway. Mr President! I would like to say that when it is said here that projects are being carried out according to the needs of the business community, that this must of course be done, but it cannot go that way, it is stated, for example, that in Finland there is one of the most powerful industries in the world, and then society also invests resources there. It is up to Parliament to look at — and it is also one of the spirit and idea of the plans of the transport system — the overall development. Eastern Finland has lost over the years. We have had wars, we have lost land, we have lost wealth, people have moved to America, Sweden, southern Finland, tens, tens, tens of thousands of people. It is also visible in Finland’s development. Therefore, when fast connections are made, i.e. this so-called project to Kouvola, it opens up connections to St.Petersburg and Moscow, but also the connections to Kuopio and Joensuu on the railway of Savo and Karelia — it is also the development policy. It responds best to the climate challenge. Take my municipality of residence, Kuopio, for example. If both this eastern rail project and other rail investments bring the four-hour level down by one hour, i.e. about three hours, it will play a significant role in the development of Finland as a whole. In this respect, Mr President, this project and Mr Berner's work must be given a full ten and hope for a good follow-up to him and the whole government and the next governments in the development of these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u164	Madam President! In my speech just now, when I gave the floor, as it were, to the consensus of the working group and to the good spirit, I shall now take a little home as a neo-national MP and promote an hour's course towards Turku. The reason is very simple. In the Ministry of Transport and Communications there has been such a good idea in principle that the projects where all the plans are already in place should be carried out first. This is Espoo’s urban track, which would be part of this hour’s track to Turku, which is why hip hurra and the pace of the projects, and especially the hour’s track to Turku.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u165	Mr President! This is therefore based on three parliamentary groups. I'm not quite sure I'm the only one who's been in all of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u166	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Audit Committee on TrVM 10/2018 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided. First speech, chairman of the committee, representative of Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u167	Mr President! The National Audit Office is an independent agency and, in order to be able to do its work in a reliable and good way, its position is organised within the Parliament. It is not, therefore, work in conjunction with the Government, nor is it subordinate to the Government, i.e. the government of the country. This position of independence of the agency was taken over by Parliament just over ten years ago, and it can be said that this arrangement has proved very successful and good. However, the Agency regularly provides Parliament with information and, of course, wide-ranging information on its own work and key audit findings. The annual report of the Audit Office for the State Economy is part of this reporting and the purpose of this reporting is, of course, to ensure that the Agency's activities can also be evaluated. When the work of the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman was discussed above, of course the same high level of integrity is also a matter for the Audit Office, and equally all the evaluation of its work is a matter for Parliament, and this annual report also serves this. This annual report shall take into account for a longer time the key audits carried out by the Agency by the end of August 2018 and also the audit reports for the financial year 2017. The Agency will also issue a separate report on fiscal surveillance, as well as on the audit of the state accounts and the Board's annual report. They are also the subject of discussion here at regular intervals. The committee has gone through this largely routine paper and has nothing to say about its general lines, but in this context the committee is particularly concerned with risk management and the findings of the Inspectorate in this area. In connection with this report, the committee, i.e. the Parliamentary Audit Committee, has also gone through a separate report from the Audit Office on the risk management of the state administration and the continuity of operations — a very valuable piece of paper. In this regard, the committee has found findings which should be brought to the attention of the whole Parliament. In this report, the Audit Committee focuses on risk management and on how government agencies and institutions are prepared to ensure the continuity of their activities in the event of disturbances. The findings of this special report were, in some respects, alarming and, you might say, surprising. We have a long tradition of state administration and society as a whole in preparing for exceptional circumstances. In general, it has been done very well in Finland and in a very high standard in Western terms. Then, in the course of the report by the Audit Office, it became clear that there are still a number of incidents where preparation is not very high or has not been planned at all. So it is about things such as electrical disturbances, large fires, deliberate harm, or terrorism, for example. They fall under the category for which government agencies and institutions are not sufficiently trained. It was a big surprise that this separate reporting indicates that in one third of the 180 state-run agencies or institutions, including ministries, there is no such risk management or continuity plan at all. Of course, that is an alarming figure, and it is not acceptable at all. Consequently, the committee considers it important to adopt a clear position on this issue and to improve this planning in a timely manner. In addition, this work has shown that the responsibility for risk management in the state administration, including ministries, is inadequately defined and the relationship of responsibility is not sufficiently clear. When responsibilities are not clear — for example, there is no special ministry responsible for this guidance on risk management — one can of course understand such a high figure as a third that is not prepared for such exceptional situations at all. The Audit Committee therefore considers it important to bring about a change in this situation. There is a need for a comprehensive risk management programme for all state functions and related responsibilities definitions. The right procedures must be considered when crises are not in place and they must also be properly practiced so that citizens' rights can take place in the real situation and operational solutions that safeguard the smooth functioning of society. The committee therefore proposes that Parliament adopt a separate position in this respect, the content of which is that Parliament obliges the Government to take immediate action to improve risk management and, in this respect, to define, by the end of 2020, compatible and effective procedures for the management of risks at government level, at administrative level and at agency level, and to continue to determine the responsible ministries and other necessary responsibilities. The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u168	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. First signatory of the initiative, Mr Elomaa, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u169	Mr President! In this legislative initiative, I propose to amend the criminal law to include a criminal provision in the law on the violation of the ban on the keeping of animals. A penalty scale for non-compliance with a fixed-term or permanent ban would be a fine or imprisonment of no more than 6 months. On the basis of this initiative, the Criminal Code would also be amended to allow more effective control of the ban on the keeping of animals. By the time of the initiative, the perpetrators of various animal-protection offences and animal-protection offences would be better placed to take responsibility for their criminal acts. In practice, the control of the ban on keeping animals does not currently prevent those responsible well enough from breaking the ban flagrantly. Control simply does not have enough resources. The defenseless animals are at the mercy of their owners. The owner determines the quality of life of the animal, whether it is a pet or a farm animal. It is therefore important that animal welfare is protected as well as possible by law. The abuse or neglect of animals is simply wrong and completely incomprehensible. Animal welfare crime is a crime in which one or more animals are treated cruelly or with unnecessary suffering. This could be intentional or gross negligence. An animal welfare offence can be mild, ordinary or gross. Furthermore, the penalties for neglect or cruelty against animals are currently light enough not to act as sufficient deterrents to prevent acts. In most cases, only a small fine can be recovered from an animal protection violation. The current provisions do not take sufficient account of the fact that the authorities are not able to enforce the bans effectively enough. Monitoring is very important for the functioning of animal protection. At present, compliance with the ban on keeping animals must not be controlled within the framework of domestic peace, as the maximum penalty for its non-compliance is only a fine. This differs from other similar criminal security measures, such as a business ban. A ban on the keeping of animals may be imposed on a person who is convicted of an animal-protection offence or a minor animal-protection offence. A ban on the keeping of animals may also be imposed on a person who is convicted of a breach of animal welfare or an infringement of the transport of animals or who can be considered unfit or unable to care for the welfare of the animals. The ban on the keeping of animals shall not be granted ownership, maintenance or treatment of animals or otherwise the responsibility for the welfare of the animals. The purpose is to prevent the same person from repeatedly causing suffering to animals. Regrettably, despite the ban on keeping animals, the person who has been banned from complying with the ban often fails to comply with the ban. The result of a violation of the prohibition is a penalty and a penalty for loss. The penalties are quite mild in view of the non-compliance with a specific ban, especially in cases where animals are not properly kept even after the ban has been imposed. Mr President! In 2015, a total of 156 persons were convicted of an animal welfare offence. As many as 109 of them were fined. Indeed, absolute imprisonment is rarely condemned. There has been a steady increase in the number of people convicted of animal welfare offences. In the same year, bans were imposed 85 times, none of which were permanent. As a rule, animal welfare offences are punishable by fines and a fixed-term ban on keeping animals. When the deadline expires, you go to animal trade — incomprehensible. The statistics are worrying and partly reflect the lack of control resources. There is no regulation on the control of bans on keeping animals, so the enforcement of penalties is based in practice on suspicions of a breach of the ban on keeping animals known to the animal welfare authority. It is therefore highly unlikely that those who violate the ban will be caught. Due to the cruelty of animal welfare offences and the lack of defence of animals, the penalties for animal protection offences should also be re-evaluated and considerably tightened. The threat of punishment serves as a deterrent which may have a preventive effect on the violation of the ban on keeping animals. Control of the ban on keeping animals is also relevant to the credibility of the criminal justice system. This bill has been well named across party boundaries, and I hope that animal welfare will take a step forward and the changes proposed in the initiative will be implemented. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u170	Madam President! I'm sure Congressman Elomaa is quite right about that point of view. Animal - protection violations and crimes are always scandalous and scandalous. My own experience is just like that, as a rule, Finns treat their domestic animals, farm animals and pets well, some very well, but then there are these problems. The effect of tightening the penalty scale is certainly worth considering, as the honourable Member said in his speech. In some cases it certainly has the right effect, that is, when it is known that even imprisonment can take place instead of a fine, it helps to guide the conduct of people. But there may also be a point of view here, given the higher level of punishment, that the police will also investigate matters more easily when it is known that they can lead to greater penalties. It may also be one of the reasons for the fact that the police today have to think about it and to prioritise in practice the level of crime they are going to investigate. Bicycle theft today does not get the pippa car going yet. In practice, unfortunately, this is the way it is. How people’s morals and development go on all in all is a big question. It is a major issue of social policy and, in that sense, it is appropriate to reflect on this type of issue. However, when we look at it globally, I believe that Finland is still at a very good level. When you see, for example, how animals are transported around the world under very poor, weak conditions, actually those countries that produce a lot of meat and bring it over long distances must in a certain way be put on their own. Finnish production in this respect can take a comparison, but unfortunately there are always those bad exceptions. In that respect, Mr Elomaa's bill is a good one. Unfortunately, it will of course lapse in these parliamentary days, but hopefully it will come to life during the new parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-28-ps-167.u171	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Ross for his excellent speech. That is precisely the essential point that this bill is a very good one and now raises matters to reflection and discussion, hopefully — and hopefully one day it will even go through this bill. As a rule, Finland treats animals well, it is true, both production and pet animals and why not also natural animals, but there are always serious exceptions, and that is why this bill has been taken. In a few words: the Animal Protection Act is being reformed, but now it seems that it will also be passed on to the next government. It's still stuck out there somewhere. There are a lot of important things here in Parliament now, and it may be that this animal welfare law will now be left behind and then go into the next period. Let's see. Around 700 animal welfare offences are recorded annually in Finland, and unfortunately this figure is constantly increasing. Earlier in Helsinki, the investigation of animal-related crimes was scattered across groups, and due to lack of resources, some of the offences were left unexplored and not investigated. Last year, the Helsinki police set up an investigation team on animal protection offences, which has proved to be really necessary and has done a very good and good job. It has contributed to animal protection. This group is working with the vets. It facilitates everything that is related to animal welfare and the care of such matters. The responsibility for animal welfare is now being transferred to the provinces, and there will probably be no change at local authority level, no improvement. I'm really worried about that. Cooperation between the authorities is not very good at the moment, and the new Animal Protection Act, which has now been presented, will hardly include greater cooperation between the authorities. The practice is that when a vet learns that there is a suspicion of an animal protection crime, he goes there and he can get a police officer to go with him. The S.O.D. will only ensure that this veterinarian is allowed to conduct his inspection in peace, but the S.E.P.D. is unable to start an investigation or report it to the police. The S.H.I.E.L.D. is just making sure that this process, what a veterinarian does, works without interference. Now that the Helsinki unit has this special group, all of this has become smooth. The suspicion of a crime is speeded up immediately and it can also be reported immediately that the crime has taken place. Everything is moving fast: it is no longer going to be as it may have been at its worst, even a few years before this process progresses. We are now making decisions quickly, and the animals are not suffering so much. It has also happened that when you go to check the situation and there is a special unit on the spot immediately, you can take immediate action and you do not need to stop the animal. Often those processes last so long that the animal is half dead, and often the only way is to stop suffering immediately, to end the life of this animal because it — or if there are several — is in such poor condition. So I hope, and I would like to do something about this, that for each of the 11 police departments that there is in Finland, there would be such a core unit, a few people who are focused on animals. That leaves the police with resources to deal with other crimes, so this basically allows the police to investigate other crimes in a much larger volume. - Thank you.
