ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u1	The election of the first Vice-President will now be followed by compliance with the provisions of Article 34(2) of the Finnish Constitution and Articles 5 and 6 of the Parliamentary Statute. So the election will be delivered on a full-time basis. Representatives shall bring their ballots to the urn according to roll call, which shall be delivered in alphabetical order. Where appropriate, the name of the candidate shall also be identified with sufficient precision using the first name. As assistants for checking ballots and counting votes in the election, I would ask the following representatives: Kristiina Salonen, Arja Juvonen, Jukka Kopra and Esko Kiviranta. I note that the votes cast are not made public.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u2	The result of the vote shall be read.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u3	When Mr Antti Rinne has received more than half of the votes cast in the election, he has been elected first Vice-President of Parliament for the remainder of the 2019 Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u4	I would ask the first Vice-President to give Parliament the solemn assurance provided for in Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u5	I, Antti Rinne, assure you that, according to my powers as President, I defend the right of the Finnish people and parliament according to the Constitution. Jag Antti Rinne försäkrar att jag som talman effecter all min förmåga skall försvara finska folkets och ricksdagens rättigheter enligt constitutionen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u6	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 3/2019 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 10 December 2019. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u7	Mr President! I will propose an amendment to section 9 distributed on the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u8	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u9	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 10 December 2019. In the debate Ville Vähämäki, supported by Sami Savio, has proposed that 3. the draft law is rejected. In addition, with the support of Heikki Autto Mia Laiho, two proposals for statements under protest 2 have been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u10	3. the proposal to reject the bill must be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u11	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u12	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate ended on 10 December 2019 in the plenary session The debate, supported by Ville Vähämäki Heikki Auto, has proposed that 1. the draft law is rejected. In addition, Ville Vähämäki, supported by Sami Savio, has submitted a proposal for a statement in accordance with protest 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u13	1st motion to reject the draft law must be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u14	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u15	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate ended on 10 December 2019 in the plenary session The debate, supported by Ville Vähämäki Sami Savio, has been followed by two motions for statements under protest 1. In addition, with the support of Heikki Autto Matias Marttinen, he has tabled a proposal for a statement in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u16	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided. The first vote will take place on the proposal for a statement by Heikki Automotive against the proposal for a statement by Ville Vähämäki 2 and against the report that has subsequently been won.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u17	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate ended on 10 December 2019 in the plenary session The debate, supported by Mrs Juuso Jari Koskela, has tabled a proposal for reasons of objection and proposed that the first draft statement contained in the report be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u18	Finally, we have to vote on the rejection of the 1st draft statement and the proposal on the reasons for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u19	Since Parliament has adopted the first proposal for a statement in accordance with the report, it is not possible to take a vote on a proposal for rejection of the grounds relating to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u20	The 11th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 10 December 2019. In the course of the debate, Ms Laiho Matias Marttinen supported three statements of opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u21	Finally, the proposals for statements made in the debate must be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u22	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate ended on 10 December 2019 in the plenary session The debate, supported by Mrs Matias Marttinen, has been followed by an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u23	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u24	The 13th item of the order of business is presented for the presentation of the interim question. Jussi Halla-aho and 73 other representatives have asked an intermediate question about the repatriation of Finnish citizens at the VK 3/2019 vp al-Holi camp or the proper functioning of the Isis families who have ended up in Finland. I now give the floor to the first signatory of the intermediate question.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u25	The 19th item of the order of business is presented at one reading. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on PeVM 5/2019 vp. The draft law can now be adopted without amendment in substance by a decision which has been supported by at least two thirds of the votes cast or rejected. The committee proposes that the draft law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u26	Mr President! This is a change in the economic system of the Åland Islands Autonomy Act. At the 2018 Parliament, Parliament has agreed to rest on the bill that is now at issue. This amendment to the Act of Self-Government builds on the solution agreed in the context of the comprehensive reform of the Act of Self-Government of Åland on the proposed regulation of the economy of the Åland Islands. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes the adoption of a draft law without amendment. In its report, the committee draws attention to the fact that the government's proposal on the adoption of a draft law has assessed the economic impact of the reform in the context of the reform of the regional and social welfare and health care sectors which was pending at the time. Following the expiry of the legislative proposals for the said reform, the evaluation situation has changed in some respects. The committee considers it justified that the provisions of the Autonomous Administrative Law concerning the management of the county's finances should be revised in the Government's proposal HE 320/2018 vp. However, no such changes can now be made to the law that has been left to rest. The committee therefore proposes that Parliament adopt a statement on the modification of the countervailing criterion laid down in the Autonomy Act. Proposal for a decision of the committee: ‘A legislative proposal contained in the proposal LJL2/2019 which Parliament shall adopt one statement.’ And the committee’s proposal is worded as follows: ‘The Commission requires that the government make a delay without delay from the amendment of the criterion laid down in This was the main thrust of the proposal and also contains an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u27	Ärade Herr Talman! Det vilande lagförslaget om ändring av Ålands självstyrelselag handlar om en ändring av det ekonomska avräkningssystemet för Åland. Det är är en del av den stora självstyrelselagsrevisionen som pågått de senaste åren under ledning av den Parliamenttariska komittén som leddes av President Tarja Halonen. På grund av tidsbrist blev man förra mandatperioden inte färdig med hela självstyrelselagsrevisionen. Man beslöt ändå att frikoppla de constitutionella problema som landskaps- och vårdreformen antars hade spat. Det är det som det ox vilande lagförslaget handlar om. Vid sidan av förnyelsen i det ekonomiska självstyrelsesystemet skulle också en höjning av grundfinansieren med 10 million euro göras. Detta behövs effectsom ingen justering har gjorts i avräkningen till Åland på över 25 år sedan det nuvarande systemet trädde i kraft, samtidigt som Ålands befolkning vuxit dubbelt så snabbt i förhållande till hela landets befolkning, Vilket innebär att Åland relativt sett får tillbaka allt mindre Skatter per capita. Ärade Herr Talman! Alla ålänningar betalar Skatt till staten på exakt samma grunder som alla andra finländare. Eftersom många functioner på Åland upprätthålls av landskapet Åland genom självstyrelselagen och inte av staten så får Åland tillbaka en bestemd andel av de skater man betalar för att kunna finansiera den ox offentliga servicen. Problemet är att den kraftiga befolkningstilväxten på Åland gjort att de Skatter man får tillbaka inte längre räcker till för att på sikt klara av att upprätthålla den raus servicen, och Åland vill också fortsutta växa. Det är i det raustahänsedet viktigt att betona att Åland enbart villha tillbaka en tillräckligt stor andel av de skater man betaar så att man kan upprätthålla och fortsutta utveckla Åland, varken mer eller mindre. Ärade Herr Talman! Problemet är att då landskaps- och vårdreformen inte genomfördes på det ätt som var tänkt under förra mandatperioden betyder det rai lagförslaget inte längre någon egentlig ökad grundfinansiering till Åland. Det rauh förslaget innebär ett now system som är en del av totalreformen av självstyrelselagen som varnkt att träda i kraft då självstyrelsen phyller 100 år 2021, men förslaget innebär inte längre någon ökad grundfinansiering på 10 million euro till Åland. Av den anledningen constaterar grundlagsutskottet i betankandet och i ett förslag till uttalande att regeringen snabbt behöver ge ett nytt lagförslag till riksdage som höjer avräkningsgrunden till Åland, så att grundfinansieringen ökar med 10 million euro per år — något som man kom överens om under förra mandatperioden. Ett sådant lagförslag behöver man förbinda sig till att göra för att den ärringen ska få det nödvändiga samtycket av Ålands lagting. Den ändringen måste också göras genom ett separat lagförslag eftersom riksdage inte kan göra ändringar i detta lagförslag — detta eftersom en ändring av självstyrelselage bara kan göras i grundlagsenlig ordning med lagtingets bifall och en ändring som vilat över riksdagsvalet bara kan godkännas eller förkas. Av den anledningen är det också så viktigt att ricksdagen nu godkänner det är förslaget. Ifall det inte godkänns så går det inte längre att under denna mandatperiod återkomma till frågan effectsom processen med att ändra självstyrelselagen är så långsam. I så fall kan nsta ändring i practicen, och hypotetiskt sett, tidigast träda i kraft effecter nasta riksdagsval. Grundlagsutskottet har behandlat lagförslaget grundligt både under förra mandatperioden och under den nuvarande. Grundlagsutskottet föreslår att lagförslaget godkänns. Lagförslaget är en viktig och central del av totalrevisionen av självstyrelselagen och är viktigt för förtroendet mellan riket och Åland. I detta heisende är det också viktigt att påminna om att Ålandsfrågor aldrig i något avsende får behandlas som dagspolitiska frågor efftersom självstyrelsen är en internationalell construktion och självstyrelselagen är så svår att ändra på efttersom ett bret samförstånd behövs över TVå mandatperider då en TVå tredjedelars majoritet behovs för att få ändringar till stånd. Det är också viktigt att påminna om, Vilket också grundlagsutskottet tidigare gjort, att Ålands självstyrelse inte påverkas eller rubbas av andra förvaltningsreformer samt att man inte kopplar nädringar av självstyrelsegen med andra lagstiftningsprojekt. Det är åsikten av de författningsexperter som grundlagsutskottet har också hört. Irade the Talman! Grundlagsutskottet föreslår som sagt ett uttalande om att regeringen nu snabbt måste åtgärda höjningen av grundfinansieringen som man kom överens om förra mandatperioden men som inte längre sker med godknande av detta lagförslag. Det rauta uttalandet är således viktigt för att kunna få lagtingets förtroende att ge sitt samtycke. Samtidigt behöver regeringen i snabb takt komma överens med Åland om det practiceska med detta och ge ett utkast till lagförslag om höjningen av avräkningen till Åland så snabbt som möjligt och innan lagtinget gett sitt bifall som sedan kan avges till riksdage under nästa år. Det är mycket viktigt att vi nu godkänner detta lagförslag. Tusentals timmar arbetstid har lagts ned på det förberedande arbetet med detta, och det är viktigt att vi nu kommer vidare och kan fortsätta med de övriga dellarna i självstyrelselagsändringen samt övriga frågor mellan riket och Åland som delvis fått stå tillbaka på grund av att detta arbete tags så pass mycket resort i anspråk både på Åland och i statsförvaltningen. Det är nu viktigt att kompa vidare med den arv frågan. — Tack.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u28	Mr President! In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Finns have objected to the report on the motion. We require that the change in the countervailing criterion should not lead to financial overcompensation for the Åland Islands. As far as this legislative proposal is concerned, it is no longer possible to amend the proposal at this stage, so it can be accepted or rejected. I therefore object that the bill should be rejected. In addition, I propose that the draft statement contained in the report be rejected, and finally I propose that the statement contained in the objection be accepted, which reads: ‘The Parliament requires that the government make a delay without delay from the amendment of the criterion laid down in Article 47(1) of the Åland Self-Government Act to 0.42%, with a view to the amendment of the criterion laid down in Article 47(1) of the Charter of
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u29	Mr President! On these grounds, which are included in this objection, I support the motion made by Mr Immonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u30	Mr President! I was also involved in this Committee on the Reform of the Åland Self-Government Act and there, on behalf of the Finnish People's Party, I already made very critical contributions to this increase in equalisation funding for Åland. In this context, this reform of the Autonomy Act was intended to come here as a whole. If I understood correctly, Mr Löfström forgot to tell me in his speech that this proposal, which came here last season, is precisely due to day-to-day political reasons. Mr Löfström stated that matters relating to the Åland Islands and the Act of Self-Government should not be dealt with for day-to-day political reasons, but when you look at the opinion of the Constitutional Committee on 11 February of this year, it is stated on page 3 that this proposal itself is now linked to the regional war reform which was then under way, and that this economic situation had to be compensated for the Åland Islands. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs made it clear that the Government's statement was an expression of the political position of the day. However, in the view of the Constitutional Committee, the Government's statement may give the impression that the amendment to the Åland Act of Self-Government would only be considered as an ordinary legislative by-product and this was not considered appropriate. So there was a situation here that we had to move forward with the reform of social services, and it involved the financing of Åland. This amount of compensation was discussed with Åland, and this Government proposal 320/2018, which is the basis here again, considered that the neutral basis would be 0,45 %. — No, I'm sorry, 0.42% would be neutral. I'll fix it now that there's three different chapters. — In other words, 0,42 would be neutral, according to these studies. This was the starting point from which we had to start. Then the Province of Åland did not accept this 0,42 and was therefore changed to 0,45. Last season, even then, the Group of the Finns Party considered this to be overcompensation, and that is why our group last voted on this in the Chamber before he rested. I am not in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs this season and I have now heard that 0.47 are being tabled here, although the chairman of the committee, Mr Ojala-Niemelä, also said that there has been no new economic impact assessment in relation to the previous government proposal, which is now the basis for this, which is why this figure is rising all the time. Mr Löfström said that it would be necessary for the province to accept this 0.47. In the last period, therefore, it was said, let us repeat, that the level of neutrality was supposed to be the starting point. Let's make up for what the province would lose if the war came. Well, it didn't come out of nowhere. Where's the need? Well, let's just say it's coming. The calculations were 0.42. Åland said that we will not agree to this in our head when we need the approval of both Åland and this hall. Åland stated that we do not accept the 0,42 that would be neutral. We want the over-composition, 0.45. And now, in this Chamber, the number has risen again, it is 0.47. Now I would suggest to Mr Löfström that you tell this gym, as a representative of Åland, what this is all about when this figure rises every time and it is not about small sums. As I have said many times, the province of Åland is debt-free, and we are in real trouble. We have spoken in this Chamber about how municipalities are really in trouble, municipal taxes are rising, we have the state in debt, the municipalities are in debt. For what reason do you want overcompensation, could you answer?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u31	Mr President! First of all: as a general principle, this change in the law on self-government and the change in the criterion of equalisation seem justified. As has previously been heard in these explanatory statements, for 25 years this amendment has not been adopted and in that sense it is appropriate to do so at this stage. Unlike the Group of the Finns Party, which was willing to give the Åland Islands a negative gift in 2021 at the time of the 100th anniversary of the entry into force of this Act of Self-Government as an international agreement, the rest of us — at least it seems that the rest of us — have a different view on this matter and we stress the importance of this Åland Act of Self-Government, both for Finnish society and for the development of relations between Finland and Åland, and, above all, for the recognition of the internationally significant achievement that this Åland Act of Self-Government means. It is very important to identify the process by which this so-called solution has been made in Åland. After all, there are two essential international agreements. The first agreement, which defines Åland's position as an international crisis area, was the solution made after the Crimea War in the demilitarised Åland zone. I am aware that views have been expressed on the direction of the Finns, even at ministerial level, that this should be reconsidered. It is a scandalous proposal in a situation where we have known that that demilitarised zone station has a major international exemplification effect, and it has also been very effective and stabilising the position of Åland in this whole of the security policy situation in the Baltic Sea region. It dates back to 1856 and was specifically confirmed by the Paris Peace Agreement after the Crimean War. It's a remarkable, significant deal. The second major agreement was, of course, the post-Finnish civil war. We are well aware that during the Finnish Civil War there were so-called foreign troops in Åland, there were German troops, there were Swedish troops. This situation in Åland was very difficult because a referendum was held in Åland after the civil war and 98% — if I remember correctly — of Åland voted in favour of joining Sweden. They felt that Swedish, Swedish, was the object of identification for them, then Ålanders, and co-existence in turbulence in Finland, Finland, was then in the process of civil war. The Finnish Government was, of course, strict: Åland is part of Finland's territory, Finland's sovereignty. This is exaggerated, but it was very close to the fact that the two neighbouring Nordic countries were at their worst even in armed conflict, because they had military forces in traffic in many ways. This self-government solution of Åland was the first decision of the League of Nations, which was founded after World War I, a compromise solution, well negotiated, in which the church was in a way placed in the middle of the village. The starting point was interesting: all the parties to the dispute, both the Swedes, the Finns, even the Ålanders, felt that this compromise solution of the League of Nations was bad, but in the end it has been an ideal situation, the best possible solution. Åland has started to flourish in a fine way through this self-government law. Finns have also found the solution wonderful, and so have Swedes. Now, through the Nordic Council and Nordic cooperation, we can see how the Ålanders are able to contribulate this joint Nordic debate, and in this way I would like the Finns of Finland to respect this historic process, which is at the root of this process. Åland's self-government model, including this demilitarised zone model — many of us, who have also been involved in international peace negotiations, have been in situations where we have marketed this Åland model to very difficult conflict situations. See how self-government, an autonomous solution can be made so that, in the event of conflict, a model can be found that satisfies the needs of all parties in a certain way, while respecting the interests that are in it, and yet a solution is found so that everyone can live with it. This self-government legislation in Åland, which has been built in the background here, is an exceptionally fine example. I also emphasize the meanings of the solution of the demilitarized area, and in that respect I also appeal to the Finns of Peru: See this whole thing we're talking about. It is a great thing that we have an autonomous region like Åland in Finland. We genuinely respect it, and they also respect the fact that they are Finnish in this overall context.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u32	Ärade Herr Talman! Jag vet att det är många procental att hålla reda på, och ledamot Leena Meri bad mig reda ut dessa procental och också begreppen kring det ox. Förra regeringens förslag var inte att den ox reformen skulle bli kostnadsneutral. Det var sannfinländrannas förslag, men det var inte regeringens förslag, utan regeringens förslag var att den ox ändringen av självstyrelsegen skulle öka grundfinansieren till Åland med 10 million euro per år effectsom det behövs för att trygga den ökande befolkningen som Åland har haft. Det raus skulle genomföras genom att man skulle hålla avräkningsgrunden oförändrad med 0,45 percent, och effectsom statens intakter skulle öka med 12 billion euro så skulle den ärändrade avräkningsgrunden och det nya systemet göra att Ålands finansiering i practicen skulle öka med 10 million euro per år. Nå, nu blev inte det fallet effectom det inte blev en landsskaps- och vårdreform, och det betyder att 0,45 percent fortfarande är 0,45 percent effectom statens intakter inte längre ökade. Och det förslaget som nu finns i sannfinländarnas reservation om att änka avräkningen till 0,42 betyder de facto en klar minskning. Ledamot Immonen tar i sin reservation upp ett factum att det ska bli en vårdreform, men saken är den att det finns inga konkreta förslag på brodet kring den vårdreformen och inga förslag som vi har fått till riksdagen om, när och hur den ras vårdreformen ska genomföras. Det vi dock vet med Hundraprocentig säkerhet är att ingen reform kommer att vaa i kraft 2021, från detåret när sannfinländarna föreslår att man ska ha 0,42 i avräkningsgrund i ställett för 0,45. I reservationen som ledamot Immonen har tagit fram säger man att det raus kostnadsneutralt, men förslaget i reservationen är ju att man minskar finansieringen till Åland med 15–20 million euro per år, och därför vill jag fråga ledamot Immonen: varför vill manska den rus grundfinansieren till Åland med 15–20 million euro? Ålänningar betalar statsskatt som alla andra finländare och får tillbaka en andel av detta för att finansiera polis, sjukård och andelar till kommuner som går till äldreomsorgen och give service. Minskar man Ålands finansiering med 15–20 million euro per år, vilket det rauh förslaget till uttalande som ni har lagt fram i grundlagsutskottet innebär, hur ska Åland då kunna finansiera den raus service? Och varför ska inte Åland ha mosma tujlighet att arangera offentlig service som alla andra finländare?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u33	Thank you, Mr President. To Mrs Löfström, I should like to say briefly that, depending on the method of calculation, the various experts in the committee have pointed out different figures and calculations as to what is the correct level for this equalisation criterion, and I myself have interpreted these figures as they are presented in this protest from the Finns of Peru. I would consider the figures and levels of the Ministry of Finance to be the closest to the right. This increase in the level of compensation is justified by the war and by the regional reform. We are not yet sure what will happen to these, but we will see that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u34	And back... Well, ledamot Löfström, 1 me.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u35	Ärade Herr Talman! Ännu till ledamot Immonen: Det är sant att vi har hört sakkunniga, men vi har inte hört sakkunniga sedan landsskaps- och vårdreformen inte blev av gällande finansierengen. Finansministeriet har inte gett några siffror som skulle peka på 0,42 eller någon sännkning i avräkningen sedan landsskaps- och vårdreformen har fallit, och det arv finns tydligt eftersom alla utlåtanden som har getts till grundlagsutskottet ju är offentliga när grundlagsutskottet har behandlat det rai och alla kan se den arv informationen. Så vi har inte fått några nya siffror sedan landsskaps- och vårdreformen som skulle göra det öjligt att man kände sänka avräkningen till 0,42, utan det betyder att det facto det facto de facto blir en sännkning till Åland på 15-20 million euro per år.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u36	Mr President! Here Mr Kiljunen spoke very thoroughly about how we should look at and understand Åland, and I really liked what he said. Last season we had the opportunity to visit Åland with the Legal Committee. At that point, we have just carefully reviewed this need to amend the Autonomy Act and related matters and we have stated that there is a great need for overall change and clarification. So this reform that we have is more like an overall reform, an update that is essential to the changed situation. The revision of this financing base was not, as it were, a cost-neutral solution, but was specifically aimed at seeking a financing solution that meets current needs and future needs. Knowing this order of regulation, which is the case in Åland, they are not quite simple things, but they were intended to make a long-term decision. This current situation in Åland requires this proposal, demands this increase and must be seen as a solution for decades, not just as a political act at the moment. That is why, last season, I supported this and continue to support it and I am pleased that Åland can be well and can develop itself as an independent actor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u37	Mr President! This debate is not about Åland's self-government or its legitimacy or its goodness. That is a fine thing, and as I have said before, there is a certain area of self-government in international agreements and certain rights and so on, but there is no definition of the amount of money there. This is the money we are discussing here, which is just in the kingdom, what is the state of the kingdom. This is what I have been talking about all along, not that I do not appreciate Åland. That's why it's pointless to involve this conversation. This is not a moral statement; it is a question of money, precisely. I am still calling for this statement by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to really point out this 0.47, but nevertheless it is pointed out that all the broadest financial impact assessments of the reform have been made when this government proposal came to us during the last period. That is to say, in your discussions, that someone in committee said it, that this is not a comprehensive assessment. At that time, I will go from the last time these have been extensively assessed, and it has been stated in the government proposal and in the hearings of the Ministry of Finance and in the statements of the Ministry of Finance which, I think, were still in this development group of the Ahvenmaa Autonomy Act, that the neutral level of this compensation basis would be 0.42. The Constitutional Committee has stated in 2017 that this compensation must be made, but the need for compensation came from the social welfare reform that we do not currently have. All this other stuff is cool. Kimmo Kiljunen talked about gifts. I'm sure a lot of municipalities would like gifts, too. There are currently 5% municipal tax increases, which means that we cannot afford gifts now. We must remember that we are talking about the economy. The Province of Åland is debt-free. There you could reorganize the structures yourself and think about how to produce more efficiently. I'd love to, too, if you could. On Hyvinkää, we could live like this, and then I would just say that I would insist that these state subsidies be increased, because I just want to do so and that's all I'm willing to do — when we could do this. I do not understand that if 0,42 were neutral according to previous calculations, what I have seen impact assessments, how it would be 0,45 now in this performance, but when you already talked about 0,47 and said that this was clear from all the more recent statements,that this has been a matter of total policy,the Ahvenland does not accept,fromAhvenland to my country,as well as being last said,there is little more of a taste of cross-appealing that it has to accept in two places,for us
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u38	Mr President! With the legislative arrangements between the self-governing community and the Republic, it usually has such extraordinary arrangements, to which Mr Meri referred. So there must be one-way political decisions both on the part of the provincial government and on the part of the kingdom, in this case in the parliament. Of course, it makes it difficult to adapt the legislation to changing situations. It is not only an element of these changes in the legislation of the kingdom, but also a question of how, for example, jurisdiction is organised between the province and the kingdom as regards taxation. These elements are quite difficult to balance at all times. Then economic development varies. After all, Åland has now had a more positive economic development than the country's average, and that also affects what would then be a fair equalisation figure. But this presentation has now sought such broad consensus, and it certainly can be accepted in this Parliament. Then that change in the compensatory percentage referred to in the draft statement relates to this interim period. When that social reform did not come on schedule, it would now have to be corrected to the same extent as it has been without this social welfare reform and the resulting changes in the financial traffic between the municipal sector, in this case the Åland Islands, and the Kingdom. And when, in this statement, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs refers to that need to submit a proposal from the beginning of 2021, it is also a matter of a fixed-term arrangement, which would be the safest way to write that it will remain in force until this social reform is implemented. From then on, if bigger changes are made, either within Åland in the division of labour between municipalities and regions or in the division of labour between the kingdom and the province, then, of course, this future self-government legislation and the corresponding economic arrangement must be affected.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u39	Mr President! Mr Koskinen has already dealt in part with what I wanted to say. In part, Mr Merelle also replied that the status of the Autonomous Community in the kingdom is always different from that of a normal local government. Nevertheless, I can understand Mr Mere's reasoning that if there are difficulties, then we will meet. And even in Finland, municipalities are also met when there are real difficulties. In this case, it is not a question of difficulties for Åland. Now it is more a question of principles. And I too have been left open in this way that why, under the conditions of the Finns, I would like to count to 0.42 this basic funding. It's a clear signal of something. If it were 0.45 about cost-neutral, then this 0.47, which is now being sought here, it is clearly some kind of level increase that is being taken into account here when the 25-year equivalents have not been made. And now, Mr President, today's policy or the current situation has to do with the fact that we are talking about a hundred years of perspective here. 2021 The Act of Self-Government of Åland is 100 years old. If level increases are made at any point, that is — I used the term ‘gift’in the past, but I use it symbolically — a fine point will check this contract and find a level that corresponds to the cost development and cost development that has been experienced in Åland. This is a symbolically great moment also to make this level increase here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u40	Ärade Herr Talman! Till Leena Meris fråga varför det är just 0,45 som är kostnadsneutralt nu och inte 0,42: det rauh har helt att göra med att social- och älsovårdsreformen inte blev av som det var tänkt. Med det förslaget som fans då hade den ökat statens intakter med 12 billion euro per år, och då hade 0.45 percent av det gjort att Åland skulle få en 10 million euros ökning i grundfinansiering, men på grund av att den reformen föll innebär 0.45 inte längre en tillaggsfinansiering, och just därför måste man justera avräkningsgrunden till 0.47. Det rauh framgår klart också i det utlåtande som finansministeriet har gett till grundlagsutskottet, och jag rekommerar att de som vill veta mera om det, också Leena Meri, bekantar sig med det utlåtande som finansministeriet har gett. Sedan gällande Leena Meris påstående att Åland skulle vara skuldfritt: Åland har 16 stycken kommuner, och precis på samma sätt som landets övriga kommuner är de åländska kommunerna skuldsata, så Åland som sådant är inte skuldfrittt. På samma sätt har också Åland en andel av hela statens skulder, så Åland är inte på något vis skuldfritt. Jag vet inte varför man vill ge sken av den saken. Även om landskapets ekonom som sådan är skuldfri är Åland inte på något jätt skuldfritt.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u41	Mr President! This law, which has been left to rest, is now before us after the elections, and I think this is a good thing. Although this is a question of this economic system, especially in the case of Åland, for years it has been an attempt to reform self-government, to develop this self-government of Åland. I myself was part of the Alec Aalto task force and then also the Åland Committee chaired by President Halonen, and I am sorry to say that I have to say that the work of this committee could not have come to the conclusion that we could have reached a common goal, that we would have done this kind of overall reform in it. But I think it is important that we proceed here, and this is now being approved by Parliament. It is true that Åland is doing relatively well in comparison with mainland Finland: gross domestic product and employment rates are high there, but I would rather see the idea that we should also look at a little example of what has been done well there. And so it makes sense to me that when this is such a special kind of self-government that we have in Åland, I do not think it is a bad thing that we give Åland a carrot in a way, that when things are done right and taxes are collected, they themselves will also get a little more and benefit from it. I think this kind of bottom thinking is pretty good for encouraging this. Åland is part of Finland. It is a great province, and perhaps the greatest concern to me is more that we can keep Åland and the Åland Islands involved in this development of our common fatherland so that we feel that we are the same Finland and that when we develop Åland, we will also develop this whole Finland. I am in favour of this proposal being adopted here in the post-election Parliaments, but then with regard to these percentages and figures, I think that Mr Koskinen here quite well illustrated the basic idea and thinking about how to deal with this: timeliness, and what changes and reviews might then be needed when the social reform is completed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u42	Mr President! Indeed, this proposal is not a compensation law, but a financial reform law. After this proposal, the economic system of the Åland Islands would be built on the current equalisation system, but it would be more flexible. This slowness in how this funding follows the development of Åland's expenditure and so on has become problematic for the development of its entire region. The current tax credit scheme is proposed to be replaced by a new tax adjustment system. According to the Government’s proposal, the proposed system change has two purposes: on the one hand, ‘the purpose of the tax adjustment is to act as an incentive to increase the ability of the tax to pay more effectively than the current tax credit On the other hand, the proposed tax burden must be neutral in relation to planned and future tax administration reforms." Finland will be reformed, Åland will be reformed, tax solutions will be renewed and will have to match each other, offering similar opportunities both in Åland and here in Mainland Finland. There is no way that I can see this as just some sort of law of repair due to the war, but there is a much bigger issue here, and I am delighted that this is progressing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u43	Mr President! However, I now have to rely on these documents. However, this is the law that has been left to rest, and so this government proposal is still the same, i.e. 302/2018, it has not changed. At that time, the Government meeting pointed out that this was based on the preparation of the overall reform, but it was found that this was related to the need to reform social welfare and taste and to resolve the financing issues of Åland. This was confirmed at the Government meeting in February 2019, even if such a solution would not be acceptable as a separate solution. So the idea was that the overall reform should be carried out — it was necessary to move on. This is the same thing I mentioned earlier about that toilet when I gave the speech, and I said what the Constitutional Committee then said in its opinion: this is a political expression of opinion, and this law was a by-product of ordinary legislative requirements, which was not considered appropriate. This has been the political framework why this was taken separately, and that is why I rely on the calculations that were made at that time in the Åland Committee led by Halonen, where I was involved. You have heard experts in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but as you say in this unanimous opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and as the President has also said, these major reports are based on this government proposal, which is this one from the last period. In other words, I am not very convinced of these calculations which you are now producing — especially since it became clear last season that the level of neutrality had to be compensated, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also called for: compensation for the costs of the change. Well, now there was no change, but if any increase was made it would have been neutral according to their calculations, and it was assumed that the provincial government would not accept 0.45. I understand that this is an arrangement, but then it was the idea that we could not get the social media to move forward. Now I don't understand where this 0.47 comes from. It is terribly great, as Mr Kiljunen said, ‘for a hundred years ‘and’becomes’and ‘gifts are given’and‘untowards municipalities in financial difficulties’,but as MrKoskinen said, thereis no economic difficulties in the Åland Islands. In fact, Åland is doing better than we are elsewhere. This is about money, and that is why I do not quite understand why it is always drawn to this that the Finns of Finland do not understand Åland and the Åland Agreements. This is not a question of this: it is a question of sharing good times and bad times and financial burdens equally. That is our starting point.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u44	Mr President! Perhaps as an explanation for these reactions and this debate: Both Mr Meri and Mr Immonen of the True Finns have given numbers and stated that the numbers are numbers, this is an economic issue and there is no morality or question here that relates to the broader assessment of Åland's self-government. There are no economic facts that are separate from this morality, from this broader view. That is why I say why many of us here have reacted quite strongly, perhaps even slightly emotionally, to this numbering game which we are now going to do ourselves with this little amendment on these compensations or this basic funding that is coming to Åland. It comes from the fact that over the years we have heard very strong criticisms from the people of Peru towards Åland, even criticism of this system of self-government there, even criticism of this demilitarized zone and so on. We have heard a very fundamental assessment that we should reflect on perch painting, even such things have been created with a little “catherine atmosphere” and its janinedelle. This is the reason why we are reacting, and we ask why you are still putting this type of numbering game here and not following, for example, what representative Salmon here has very clearly pointed out. Åland is an example for us of a province that has managed to rise in a handsome way. We certainly have much to learn, just as they have to learn what to do on the continent. In cooperation we go forward, and it is not worth this kind of dispute to count on this kind of number play, but, appreciating this cooperation, which, let's say, continental Finland and Åland have had, let's move forward. That is why this proposal of yours raises these strong historical assessments, even in the longer span, and they are strongly highlighted here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u45	Mr President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs clearly stated that this is not a day-to-day political matter, and if we are now reading the Constitutional Committee's report on the last parliamentary term, it says about such things: ‘The committee hasconfirmed in the Constitution that the changes to the projects do not take place In the Committee's view, it is also relevant to change basic solutions of fundamental importance in the Åland Islands Self-Government Act. The proposal to amend the Self-Government Act is based on the solution agreed in the context of the overall reform of the Åland Self-Government Act on the proposed regulation of the economy of the Åland Islands, as described in the Government's proposal. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it is possible to assess that the change has been prepared appropriately and thoroughly in relation to its importance.’ Now it is not a question of whether it is cost-neutral or overcompensation, but I would like to ask, Mr Meri: Why do the Finns in Finland want to cut basic funding for Åland by 0.42 per cent? In practice, this means cutting basic funding for Åland by EUR 15 or 20 million per year. How, then, can Åland pay the police, handle nurses' questions and trainings? So why do the Finns want to cut basic funding for Åland?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u46	Let me now turn to Mrs Merelle.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u47	Let me tell you more than once that, as I said, I have to rely on the Government proposal 320/2018, which is also the basis of this opinion. This is now before the two parliaments, because this is the subject of the constitutional system. And these figures and estimates are based on that work. This latest opinion, which has now been issued a moment ago, states that these deeper calculations are based on the time that this government proposal has been submitted. I am counting on this 0.42 equalisation criterion, as is stated, to be cost-neutral, and this would be a fair and reasonable percentage. You yourself have presented this 0.45 and 0.47 — or the Åland Islands in fact, you cannot be blamed in any way for this situation, and I do not think that you, as a person, would have called for overcompensation if you were not. But what I don't understand is why it has to be more than it needs to be. We are prepared to give it to you as necessary. Not according to the fact that it is the 100th anniversary or that it is used to the fact that the province does not need to be owed, or some other reasons of this kind. I'm going to leave this in that Congressman Scream who's already gone. I'm sure he's reminiscing about what the Blue Minister Niinistö said, and somehow it felt that way. He still does not... — it is worth getting to know the representatives: the blues are no longer in the parliament, and they have not been part of our party for several years; they have defected there somewhere. - That in answer to him, I don't know what he's talking about. But when we talk about money and distribute it fairly, it is not a moral statement. It is exactly the same as having our climate policy and its focus, immigration policy, its focus. They focus on economic issues and Finland’s carrying capacity and many of these types of issues. It's always easy to attack the fact that you have something against people, just like you do here. For once in my life I have not said anything demeaning about people in Åland, and yet every time I talk about this money, I will be told that now would you respect Åland and other things. This is not about respecting Åland or not respecting it, but it is about money that we are deciding here. But this is all I have done now, I have tried many times to spell this out, and if this is the best I can do, then there is nothing you can do if you do not understand it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u48	Let's let Congressman Immonen try.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u49	Mr President! I am well aware that, on that side of the Chamber, there is certainly a very emotional view of this issue, but here, on the other side of the Chamber, we are trying to look at matters from a rational point of view. And the reason why the Finns are now raising this issue is that we Finns are a party of accurate economics. Tax money collected from the people — not state money, not politicians’ money, but primarily citizens’ money — must be used responsibly and fairly. And I will continue to insist that this 0,42 is the cost-neutral level, 0,45 is overcompensation, and 0,47 is even more overcompensation, and this is unacceptable to the Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u50	Ärade Herr Talman! Bara sista ordet jag tanker saga i den bull debatten till ledamot Immonen. Det materialet och det som finansministeriet har sagt till grundlagsutskottet är helt tydligt — 0,42 är inte längre kostnadsneutralt effect att sote-processen har fallit. Det ox kan man tydligt se i de utlåtanden som finansministeriet har gett, och antars bör du konsorera de ruus uppgifterna med finansministeriet just gällande den saken, för 0,45 är nu det kostnadsneutrala eftersom det är nuvarande nivå utan att någon landskaps- och vårdreform har kommit. Det är ingen emotionalell debatt för någon, tror jag, utan det ox är en helt rationalell debatt förla som är är i salen, men titta på finansministeries utlåtande till grundlagsutskottet en gång till gällande den rauhen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u51	The 20th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on PeVM 4/2019 vp. The content of the proposal for a decision is now decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u52	Mr President! This is about correcting the reference provision in the Rules of Procedure to reflect the new law. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the debate was limited, swift and unanimous. The amendment is proposed for adoption as it stands and will enter into force on 1 January 2020.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u53	The 21st item will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 18/2019 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — Chairman of the Tax Section, represented by Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u54	Mr President! As President of the Tax Section, I will present our report. So, all in all, it is an exit tax, which of course is an excellent one, which is to safeguard Finland's tax base and prevent aggressive tax planning. The minor changes made by the committee in its report are mainly technical and then, President, we will also make one statement, which I will come back to later. All in all, this is the background to an important directive, namely the European Union directive on tax evasion, and then to the previous OECD BEPS project, which, in many ways, aimed specifically at preventing aggressive tax planning and tax havens and all this, and this is also a very good purpose, overall, for the national implementation of this directive, which we are now doing in the context of this report. All in all, in this law, the way in which it is regulated is very closely in line with the provisions of this directive, and it has been implemented at this stage in compliance with such minimum standards that this does not go far beyond what the directive requires at national level. But it must be said that we in this report are also considering other issues which may be ahead of us in the future, and so we are also calling for an end to be followed up and then to return to these matters as a whole. First of all, we are considering this scope of application in the report, which is that at the moment this law is based on applying to corporate taxpayers, such as limited liability companies, but does not include, for example, passenger companies such as open companies and limited companies. That is something we have to reflect on, but we note that it would be a little difficult in this situation, especially in the envisaged timetable, for this to come into force at the turn of the year, to go through this in such detail, and that is why, in this situation, the committee is also in favour of this limitation, that the company is not involved. All in all, however, as I have already mentioned, we also refer to the need to monitor the impact and to assess developments and also possible development needs. So that is what the committee's contribution is about. All in all, we are also considering the concept of ‘goodwill’and that at this stage of the taxon exit,it also included goodwill. This is also what other experts have said is that it would be good and justified to include it, and some have considered it not so good, but the committee — and the government itself in fact — states that a further report must also be carried out on goodwill. In other words, the committee considers it important for the government to look at the income of goodwill as a whole in a separate report, taking into account the different corporate restructuring situations, in line with the government's proposal, which means that, although the government does not present it here, the explanatory statement states that this issue will then come back to us at a later stage. President! On that statement: I am not reading it now from word to word, because I actually described it already, that is, the idea is that the Government will monitor the effects, including international developments, assess development needs, possibly take action. The assessment should be carried out by the end of 2020 and it should assess, inter alia, whether and in order to safeguard the tax base, it would be necessary to extend the value gain tax to the business of the fixed establishment of passenger companies in Finland. This is unanimous, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u56	Mr President! As the President of the Section stated earlier in the presentation of this bill, the proposal is based on the European Union Tax evasion Directive of 2016, which obliges Member States to implement a tax on the increase in value of the Communities by the end of 2019. This new regulation would enter into force from the beginning of 2020. The VAT will ensure that intra-corporate transfers of assets are subject to taxation. Otherwise, the taxation of increases in the value of corporate assets in the country in which the increase occurred could be avoided. The regulation thus prevents aggressive tax planning, protects the tax base and defines the boundaries of national tax law. The Social Democrats are very pleased with this proposal and, as the section president said, this is a kind of start for future development. For the Social Democrats, closer tax bases and the fight against aggressive tax planning are one of the main objectives of our tax base consolidation and tax policy. The Social Democrats supported the tax avoidance directive in 2016 when it was discussed in Parliament, but at that time no specific position was taken on the content of the Article on corporate tax. It is important that the tax on companies' gains in value is finally introduced and thus the Finnish tax base will be better safeguarded in the future. At the same time, it is also important to assess in the future how the tax base could be further strengthened in order to safeguard the Finnish tax base and fair taxation. It is therefore necessary to assess whether the value increase tax should also be extended to persons and partnerships. This would ensure the tax base in all situations and ensure a level playing field for all. It is good that clarification is also included in the government programme and is supported by the Social Democrats. Preventing aggressive tax planning and tax evasion contributes to ensuring the tax base of the welfare society. It is also very good that the committee has made a statement which specifically requires that the impact of this bill be monitored and evaluated and that any necessary legislative needs be implemented after 2020, once this overall assessment has been carried out. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u57	Mr President! A strong welfare state is in the interests of all of us and also of companies. The fact that there is a stable operating environment, a skilled workforce and, for example, day-care centres while parents are working are all key competition factors for Finland. It is therefore in the interests of all of us as well as of companies to ensure that the funding of the welfare state is also on a sustainable basis. International tax planning is a key threat to the sustainability of this base. When it has not been possible to ensure with sufficient precision that the transfer of funds or the establishment of a company or any other artificial transfer is not capable of obtaining a tax advantage for itself, we have lost an ever-increasing amount of tax revenue abroad. Attention should be paid to the fact that this has been an activity that is not possible in any way for small Finnish entrepreneurs, especially self-employed people. Here they have to pay their taxes and assume their responsibilities, while it has been easy for quite a large number of larger international players to take advantage of these loopholes. That is why it is great that the EU has been determined to tackle this and that Finland is now finally implementing these joint agreements from the EU, which specifically ensure that there can be no situation between two or three countries which, through regulatory gaps, is able to avoid tax liability. This is precisely an issue that needs to be dealt with internationally, because if each country alone is considering this problem, then that is exactly where the gaps will arise. It is also good that, in this particular area, the committee has drawn attention to the fact that, although it is now taking up the transfer of company funds and the relocation of business premises, attention should be paid in the future also to individuals and companies, including partnerships. For example, Lidl, a large company, is a limited company, and such companies are currently outside the limits of the legislation. It is therefore important that the form of company cannot achieve an unfair tax advantage either, and it is therefore good that the committee also requires that these companies be regulated. Otherwise, interference with tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning is at the heart of this government. It is not always the most fascinating subject of all, but it is ultimately the way to ensure that welfare is maintained for future generations and that we are able to continue to provide sustainable funding for services.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u58	The 22nd item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 19/2019 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — Mr Viitanen is still present, in his capacity as president of the tax section.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u59	- Yeah, we're here. — And once again, I think that the Tax Section has done a good job of this and then decided unanimously in its report to describe a number of points which are very important. In other words, it is also a question of the same subject area, namely, ultimately, the joint decision taken at European level to prevent tax planning and to address cases where tax evasion is clearly desirable. This is also the background to this BEPS project that I mentioned, and then also to these directives relating to the exchange of information, the services directives which we are now implementing at national level. And here, too, we propose minor changes. One is that, following the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, we are making a change in this case, and the term ‘intermediary’ is also replaced by the term ‘service provider’ in order to improve the understanding of the law. In other words, the issue here is that tax consultants, lawyers and all tax planning service providers and taxpayers themselves should be subject to reporting obligations, i.e. the tax administration should be informed about cross-border tax planning arrangements that may include elements of tax evasion or avoidance, and then the idea here is that this information would enable the authorities to react quickly to harmful tax practices. Appropriate risk analysis and tax controls can also be carried out and legislation can be developed in all respects. In other words, I believe that there are good and important objectives in this way. With regard to the regulatory model, at this stage, the government is not proposing that there should be very few national extensions to this directive, but that more should be done on the basis of the minimum required by the directive. All in all, however, in this committee's report, for example, we are in favour of the model chosen in the government's proposal, according to which the need for reporting by national organisations and the extent of the relevance of reporting will be examined and evaluated at a later stage. In other words, once again, the government has already recorded in its own presentation that this issue must be returned to later and then evaluated with all the further development needs. We also consider it important, as a committee, that the government monitor the impact of the proposal and evaluate separately the content of the reporting arrangements and the measures taken on the basis of the arrangements. President! Just a few details on these issues, which we are dealing with in this report. As I said here, this legal secrecy was one for which we also asked the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for an opinion and, in the light of this opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, this becomes a certain clarification and this obligation for lawyers to communicate is limited to the so-called alternative model of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This is a condition that this can be adjusted in normal order. With regard to the reference number contained in these arrangements: we are going to consider the subject matter separately and say that the committee considers it appropriate to allow this reference number to be used as a voluntary basis for these declarations. This also relates in its own way to the fact that the person concerned may decide whether to use the reference number or to make a declaration himself. With regard to administrative sanctions: the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also considers it necessary for some clarification to be made, because the problem with this law, in fact, on many points, is now and certainly in the future, of course, that there is a need for clarification. In this respect, we will then specify in the explanatory statement. We do not make any changes to certain aspects, for example regarding the reporting date that since it is considered that this kind of reporting will be done. And then there is the definition of what is known as the test of the main benefit: there is then a text in the committee's report. As a committee, we note that we attach great importance to monitoring this issue, of course, but also to the fact that the tax administration gives a more detailed guidance on this reporting. Since this is still a little less accurate at this stage, the deeper guidance is then the way in which practices become clearer in the future. We also consider it important that customer advice can be provided from that tax administration. Administrative sanction: Here is a non-compliance fee of up to EUR 15000. In this regard, we write that, especially in this first year, when we start putting this into effect, we stress this reasonable imposition of a penalty default payment before the procedures become more precise. In this first year, in situations where you may not report an arrangement, these sanctions would only follow in the first year when the taxable person's or intermediary's conduct manifests a clear indifference. All in all, however, in general terms. I will finish with a proposal for a statement which is important. In this context, therefore, we are making a statement in which Parliament requires the Government to have a follow-up report published by the spring of 2022 on the experience of reporting and on the information and measures taken in the reports on the tax regime. That is why I think that this statement is important that, on this basis, we increase the transparency of the legislation as a whole. And the fact that this will become a report in a few years' time, that what sort of arrangements have been made, what kind of perception of how the system will work, it will give researchers, the media, us policy makers a better chance to assess, for example, the responsibility of these different cross-border arrangements, perhaps the need for further regulation. All in all, reporting and being as transparent as possible will also, of course, contribute to preventing non-appropriate tax planning. Thank you, Mr President, and this is also unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u60	Thank you to the president of the tax section.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u61	Mr President! As the President of the Tax Section has just said, the proposed legislation implements a directive aimed at improving the information of the tax authorities of the Member States of the European Union on cross-border tax planning arrangements which may contain elements of avoidance or avoidance. In that respect, this bill, which has now been adopted unanimously, is also very important and very important to support the previous legislative proposal which was discussed here. Mr President! The proposal relates to aggressive tax planning and tax evasion, which has been an important theme for the SDP for all these years. Now that we have a new finance minister On my corner, I am happy to say that as early as 2013, the then Finance Minister, Jutta Urpilainen, raised aggressive tax planning and tax evasion as an important issue both at national and international level. Among other things, he invited all his colleagues from the European Union to Finland as the first finance minister to discuss how to tackle this unfortunate issue at European level. That is the way Finland is still on, and that is the way that this government will continue to work. Mr President! This proposal is relevant because the reporting of the arrangements, as the section president said, will provide more information and information to the authorities and to us decision-makers, organisations and researchers on tax avoidance and on how to address it. The reporting obligation may also prevent the most insolent arrangements. The proposal concerns the fight against harmful tax competition and aggressive tax planning and tax evasion and the implementation of the relevant directives. Just as I have just said, the government has taken this issue seriously and we have also written it in the government programme. It notes, inter alia, that ‘Finland must contribute to the elimination of competition from harmful tax bases through a commitment to a common, fair game rules within the framework of the OECD, The government is also The aim is to provide the most intensive and wide-ranging tax bases The Government Programme has also agreed on the fight against the international This work and other measures to combat tax avoidance in the Government Programme must be launched as soon as possible. Mr President! This is the work we are now doing. Not only do we commit ourselves to these objectives, but we also need to put these principles into action, and this bill is one step in this direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u62	Mr President! It is important for Finland that when profits are generated in Finland, those profits are also taxed here in Finland. That is why, over the years, we have been trying to develop our own tax legislation, especially the Business Income Tax Act, in order to prevent the transfer of profits to another country for tax purposes. Among other things, in so-called undercapitalisation situations, the right to deduct interest has been limited and so on. We now have a legislative proposal on the same whole, based on the directive and therefore on European regulation. It is now intended to introduce a legal obligation for companies to report on cross-border arrangements that may involve tax avoidance, tax evasion, aggressive tax planning. In principle, I think this is a very good thing when it comes to international arrangements. This does not mean that every arrangement should be reported. There are different tests in the law that need to be done. If they are met, they will always be subject to the reporting obligation. I would like to raise three points here. One is the one which has perhaps been briefly overlooked here, and which relates to the fact that this committee’s report states: ‘The committee side agrees with the model chosen by the government’s proposal, according to which the appropriate scope of reporting on the need for reporting of national arrangements will be clarified and assessed later, taking into account the expected benefits of thereporting of nationalsystems, as well as the administrative burden and costs involved. “ I think it is good that this kind of assessment is being made, but I would like to say at this stage that international arrangements that transfer profits to other countries for taxation are quite different from domestic arrangements. This regulation, if and when it is thoroughly examined, must of course take very careful account of the fact that we already have a domestic tax avoidance code, and of course it cannot be the case that any kind of business arrangement is somehow still subject to a special reporting obligation. I'm on a rather cautious line here, but it's good to make a statement. The second point I would like to raise is that it is a good thing that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was asked for an opinion on this subject and received a very good opinion there. The committee is now proposing a change in the section so that, in this situation too, legal secrecy is always guaranteed. The third point I would like to raise is the committee's proposal. I think it is good that we follow where this is going. In the spring of 2022 at the latest, we will then have a follow-up report on which we will be able to see what has been going on and whether there is a need for some legislative changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u63	Mr President! As the President of the Section, Mr Viitanen, has already pointed out, this legislative amendment is part of the larger package that has been promoted in the EU to tackle international aggressive tax planning and other activities aimed at avoiding corporate responsibility for paying taxes. In this proposal, I think it is particularly good that this contributes to the very values that are also the main strengths of the Finnish tax system, namely transparency and transparency, but also administrative relevance. The fineness of the Finnish tax system is that the information is available quite openly, so that everyone is able to assess whether our system works in the way that voters want. Above all, it is possible to gather information that will enable us to make a better policy. I believe that this is a key objective of this bill: to learn more about the cross-border arrangements that companies make in order to minimise taxes in order to tackle problems and change legislation if necessary, thereby ensuring a sustainable financial basis for the welfare state. It is precisely the reporting that is at stake, not in itself, that we are now going to ban or prevent certain types of procedures, but that it is as transparent and clear as possible how to optimize taxation. Of course, we must at the same time ensure that the system is as smooth and easy as possible. There should be no unnecessary burden on anyone, and a good reflection with the Tax Administration on how to make this as meaningful as possible for everyone has already been started during the committee debate. In this, Finland is a pioneer. We have a largely automated, efficient, good tax administration operating system, and that is why it would be great to see that Finland is a pioneer here – that we can set an example for other EU countries, how intelligently, efficiently and easily this kind of transparency reporting can be done. At the same time, as has been said, care must be taken not only to ensure efficiency and the sense of regulation, but also to ensure that legal secrecy is safeguarded. We received a very comprehensive opinion from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and stated that there could be situations in which a lawyer does not actually process anyone's personal data but, for example, generally tells us what tax arrangements can be made. In such cases it is not a matter of secrecy, but when it comes to personal data, then, of course, we all aim to ensure that legal secrecy is carried out. However, this is a strong fundamental right. But, Mr President, I believe that this is a very meaningful package and I hope that this same sensible reporting procedure will be further extended.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u64	Mr. Speaker! This is where the representatives of Viitanen, Anneli Kiljunen and Suomela have already explained well the objectives that this legislation seeks to achieve. I should just like to add a few words on this point of law and what specific changes had to be made because of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and Mrs Salmon has already referred to them. In other words, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs drew attention to the fact that the actual substance of the case laid down in paragraph 1 of the prohibition of proof in Chapter 17 of the Rules of Procedure is not covered by the proposed provision, i.e. when such advice is given as to what kind of business arrangements can be made. This limitation was justified by the fact that the reporting of the arrangements under the Directive is preliminary in nature and therefore the Directive cannot be considered to be directly related to that provision of the Code of Conduct concerning the provision of information in relation to an ongoing or threatening trial in administrative or criminal proceedings. In the Committee's view, the argument must be understood in itself. However, due to the diversity of application situations, the Constitutional Committee did not consider the argument sufficient and then presented two alternative models for correcting this in the proposal. The Committee on Finance and its tax section came to the conclusion of this second model, which extended the provision of reference to Article 6(1) of the first draft law from the rule of law to the length of the proceedings, so that the obligation to notify does not apply to the prohibitions of proof laid down in Article 13(1) and (3) of Chapter 17 of Chapter 17 of the relevant period of proceedings. This was considered a condition for the ordinary legislative procedure. Well, if this is simplified by such a parable that doctors have an absolute obligation of professional secrecy regarding patient information and care related matters. Similarly, legal secrecy is quite comprehensive when it comes to concrete legal aid and personal data and so on. But then if a doctor goes on to practice nutrition counseling, for example, to the public, then his activity will be compared with what nutrition therapists or other food experts give. And then, if it were included in such reporting obligations, for example, it could be just as extensive as any other who engage in such activities. Similarly, here in corporate arrangements lawyers operate on the same market as tax experts or accountants, and they must be treated as neutrally as possible in their advisory work and should not act in such a way that, on a case-by-case basis, they get this kind of monopoly in the advice on corporate arrangements. And this one.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u65	Mr President! As has been said here, this bill is very good. Finland has been a pioneer in cross-border tax planning or tax evasion, and this work will continue. Now there is also a debate at European Union level about continuing this work in such a way that country-by-country reporting is also required, and now Finland has taken the initiative and moved it forward. I was told today that this issue is also progressing in a positive debate, and Finland has also received very good feedback from this point of view, that this activity will be developed in so far as country-specific reporting is to be carried out in the same way as this bill required.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u66	The 24th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u67	Mr President! The National Centre for the Evaluation of Education is governed by law by the National Centre for the Evaluation of Education. It is an independent and independent authority for the evaluation of education, which acts as a separate unit of the Finnish National Board of Education. The Centre produces evaluation-based information for decision-making in education policy and the development of education and early childhood education. The proposal proposes to amend the Act on the National Education Evaluation Centre. The law would specify the rights of access to information of the National Education Evaluation Centre. The Agency would be given the right to receive information necessary for the performance of its statutory assessment tasks free of charge and without prejudice to confidentiality rules. The aim is to enable the current evaluation activities of the National Training Evaluation Centre to continue. Mr President! The current provisions of the Basic Education Act, the High School Act and the Act on Early Education contain an obligation to provide information to the National Education Evaluation Centre. However, in the case of education and training other than vocational training, the law does not provide for the right of the Centre to be informed in order to carry out its assessment function without prejudice to confidentiality provisions. The evaluation centre needs information on specific support for pupils and students for the evaluation of statutory learning outcomes in schools and educational institutions and on the corresponding information necessary for the evaluation of learning and teaching, such as placement in a special institution or a special group, or learning according to an individualised course. With regard to the disclosure of classified information, the provisions of the legislation of the teaching act are inadequate in this respect in terms of the performance of the statutory tasks of the National Training Evaluation Centre. The aim of the initial evaluation plan period was to assess, among other things, the implementation of individual learning pathways for learners in basic education. As part of the evaluation of the implementation of individual study paths, the organisation of specific support will also be assessed. From the point of view of equality and equality, the evaluation should also provide information on the educational pathways of learners who have a decision on specific support. The purpose of this proposal is therefore to enable the evaluation function of the evaluation centre to be carried out in such a way as to enable the National Training Evaluation Centre to obtain and process confidential information on persons to the extent necessary for the evaluation in respect of the forms of education and early childhood education covered by its field of activity, as currently provided for in the Vocational Training Act. Assessment data based on the right background data provide versatile and reliable follow-up information on the implementation of early childhood education, education and training, the level of competence and the realisation of educational equality. As part of the Finnish National Board of Education, the Evaluation Centre has adequate systems, resources and expertise for the safe processing of personal data. The regulation on the disclosure of confidential sensitive information to public authorities should be assessed in the light of the protection of private life and personal data provided for in Article 10(1) of the Constitution. The legislator must safeguard these rights in a way that can be considered acceptable for the whole system of fundamental rights. In the presentation, the right of access to information is limited to the information necessary for the statutory assessment tasks of the student or student in relation to early childhood education, education and training, as well as to the information necessary for the performance of the assessment task in relation to the organisation of support provided for in the legislation on education and early childhood education. One of the central objectives of the evaluation centre is to increase equality, equality and the best interests of different learners. The education arrangements and learning outcomes of pupils in need, such as disabled children and young people, should be properly evaluated. The proposed regulation is assessed to be precise and precise and proportionate to the objectives pursued and acceptable. This Act is intended to enter into force on 1 March 2020.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u68	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Andersson very much for his clear and clear presentation. The proposal therefore proposes to amend the law on the National Education Evaluation Centre. The law would specify the rights to information. The National Education Evaluation Centre needs information on specific support for pupils and students and on the corresponding information necessary for the evaluation of learning outcomes, such as placement in a special school, a special group or learning according to an individualised course. The right of access to information does not extend to medical or psychological assessments underlying the organisation of the support, medical or social care professional documents or other student care documents. This point is very important to note. So the bill and its content do not give up medical or psychological assessments, for example. The need to process confidential or sensitive information relating to support and special education arrangements must always be assessed in relation to the equal implementation and treatment of pupils, students or children in need of support. The proposal will allow the assessment of basic education and other levels of learning outcomes to continue in line with the principles set out so far. The proposal does not extend the obligation of municipalities and other education and training providers to participate in an external evaluation of their activities, but allows for the continuation of the current evaluation activities. The right to receive confidential information directly from the national data reserves maintained by the Finnish National Board of Education reduces the work of municipalities and other education and training providers and improves data protection and information security. It is therefore essential that the proposal facilitates administrative obligations and removes the bureaucratic burden on municipalities. Mr President! This is a very worthy proposal which the Committee on Education and Rural Development is therefore considering. It is important to note that the bill seeks to clarify and clarify the rights to information that serve understanding and conclusions from the educational and educational world. The draft law is not based on the need to consult irrelevant information but on the ability of the National Education Evaluation Centre to perform better and interpret. It is important that the rights of information serve our objective of improving early childhood education and better education. The review of access rights is about living in time and a step towards stronger support for children and young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u69	Mr President! Thank you, Minister. Mr Kivisaari gave a rather comprehensive speech, and I am not going to repeat it, but I would just like to emphasise that our well-being in this country and also our development and future depend on our education working and that there is enough information, how our education is being developed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u70	Mr President! Thank you very much to the Minister for a clear presentation. We are very happy to take this amendment of the law to the Committee on Culture. Finland continues to be one of the leading countries in education and learning. We get to be proud of our school. It is important for everyone to find their own strengths and talents along the school path. However, there is no reason for us to be swimming, but we must develop this great school system as a whole, as a whole, as school trails. This requires researched and analysed information and evaluation of activities, and this change of law is therefore important. In order to be able to develop in order to be evaluated, there must be conditions for data collection. Karvi’s role is to evaluate the activities of education and training providers and universities. It assesses learning outcomes, carries out quality system audits, supports training providers and universities in their evaluation and quality management issues, and develops the evaluation of training. This is all the more needed when the world changes so quickly. In order to keep education in the wind of change, it is precisely for this that systematic evaluation and data acquisition are needed. Karvin must continue to operate in a way that is independent of outside bodies and that is in line with the principle of developmental evaluation and actively communicating the results of its evaluations. It is also important that, in due course, it calls for external evaluations of its own activities. The Government's proposal concerns the rights of access to information of the National Education Evaluation Centre. The Centre shall be entitled to receive information necessary for the performance of its statutory assessment tasks free of charge and without prejudice to confidentiality provisions. In order to carry out these statutory tasks, Karvi needs information on decisions concerning specific support for pupils and students. The Government is to map out and investigate the functioning of special education and inclusion, and I think this is very important. As Minister Andersson said, the identification of individual paths requires information on specific support, for example. From the point of view of the Constitution, it is only necessary to collect information that is necessary for the assessment, because it is also a matter of sensitive information and its exploitation. We have to act ethically. It is good that data collection is not exported to documents such as student care or medical and psychological assessments. This amendment of the law is very necessary. It facilitates the work of municipalities, such as a representative Stone Island, right there, pictured. Mr President! The law contributes to equality, equality and the realisation of the best interests of the child of different learners. That is why I warmly support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u71	Mr President! Having heard part of Mr Andersson's presentation and then these discussions, I was convinced that this was a good government proposal, a good one and a necessary one. When this National Assessment Centre for Education was established — it started operating in 2014 — it was located in Jyväskylä. I don't know exactly, but today I think most of the staff and activities of the Centre are in that Postitalo right in the middle of the city of Helsinki. So the development has led to the fact that it has, however, come from the Finnish atheena to which it should belong, here in Helsinki's traffic jams to increase these problems, which is what we have here about such concentration. In this context, when the law is open, I ask, Minister: is there any plans to develop Karvia specifically in Jyväskylä rather than here in Helsinki? I understand the need for such an organisation to be, to some extent, close to the Ministry of Education and Culture and other such national actors, but, nevertheless, this regionalisation would be quite appropriate. When Mr Kulmuni, the Minister for Finance, is also present in the Council of Ministers — good luck with this new task, success — you said in the autumn, Mr Kulmuni, that you are a strong advocate of regionalisation. I would also like to hear from you what your point of view is as to whether, in this case, Mr Karvi, we could act as I said here, that is to say, move activities to Jyväskylä even more and develop them there. There is a large university on the educational side, with good connections, and Jyväskylä is excellent in location and excellent in beauty. It is easy to get a qualified workforce there and all the benefits that can be found. So, a very serious question: are you prepared to do this? Then, of course, on the second occasion, I will probably ask Minister Kulmun how you have moved forward with the objective of regionalisation, which you promised to make a great deal of commitment and which I warmly support.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u72	Mr President! The bill is very good. Thank you, Minister Andersson. Mr Kinnunen has just spoken of very special children and the various service needs of these special children. I myself have worked at the Support Foundation for Disabled Children and Young People, and there we have also discussed a great deal about the rights of disabled children to access the necessary services so that they can also learn and go to school. This bill provides for those who give information. The National Education Evaluation Centre receives information from providers of education, education and early childhood education and, to a progressive extent, from data reserves maintained by other authorities through technical interfaces. Now really this kind of problem, just like this, which has clearly risen in the case of disabled children and young people, is that there are disabled children, for whom enough good, quality learning may vary according to how they receive such services as disability services or rehabilitation, personal assistants, how they get aids and other similar. These, for example, have also been relevant to how a child can attend school and participate on an equal basis, on an equal footing, in joint activities and lessons between other pupils or children and young people. I also think it is important that, in these situations, the necessary information should also be available here at the National Education Evaluation Centre. And I would like to ask about these interface areas how things in these areas, such as the Disability Services Act, will be possible and this data collection will be made possible. I would like at least to think about it in some way, particularly for these special children who are severely disabled or long-term ill.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u73	Mr President! As a representative Kinnunen made a good point in his speech, it is important to rely on the information studied in the reform of education, but also to find courage and courage to try new things and not fear failure.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u74	Mr President! I believe that this government proposal will make an important contribution to education and training, particularly through information management. I would like to thank Mr Andersson for his excellent introduction and for the thorough presentation of the Government's proposal. In my view, this is an extension of the right to information to the National Education Evaluation Centre, Karville, more familiar with it. It obviously needs information to find out, among other things, the need for student support and equality. The centre assumes that each child has the same right to receive education in the school that is closest or best for the child’s growth. I believe that with this extension and with the government's proposal we will actually be able to examine what is the best place to teach and get support. Knowledge management is not only a promise of this Finnish government, but it must also be a promise to develop education, and I see that in this government proposal we can extend these rights in the right direction to Karville. At the moment, for example, we are certainly not in an ideal situation, but it is very difficult to verify or examine how our children get their support, for example, if there is a need for support — ADD, ADHD, of whom there is much talk, or diabetes or, for example, some other kind of situation in which support is needed. I see that this extension is critical for us to be sufficiently informed so that we can develop. It cannot be the case, as is happening at the moment, that a child is always sent far away from its surroundings where there is no support, but that we go on the child's terms, in accordance with the rights of the child in these matters of support.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u75	And now, Minister Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u76	Mr President! Thank you for a good debate. I am pleased to hear that Mr Kankaanniemi has two offices at the moment and one of them is located in a city known as Jyväskylä, which is known as Finland's athenana, in other words, I think that Karvi is actually doing quite well with this idea that there can also be activities outside Helsinki. Another issue that was strongly raised here was information management and how this might be done, especially for children from special groups. It is quite true that there are, at least for some groups, problems with the flow of information and access to information. One example of which has also been in contact with the Minister is sign language children. In their situation, the problem is that not all children who speak sign language as their mother tongue, for example, have a civil status record indicating that it is their mother tongue, and then information is also very challenging for the authorities. In other words, it is essential to develop the flow of information in the future and to develop data collection in such a way that knowledge can genuinely be used to manage our entire educational system.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u77	Now it is starting to be the 30 minutes that were reserved for this debate, full. — — — — Are the speakers Kivisaari and Kinnune speaking for less than 3 minutes? Well, then let's continue this part.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u78	Mr President! The representative Kankaanniemi highlighted this beauty of Jyväskylä. I know an even more beautiful place, Reisjärvi.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u81	Mr President! Yes, Jyväskylä and Reisjärvi are great places, as are the Seinäjoki River. But, President-in-Office, Mr Koponen pointed out that things should be based on researched information — that is exactly what they are. There is a great deal of information about the incubation that has been studied, but above all there is information about the challenges of incubation at that grassroots level, and I am pleased about it. I have listened to Mr Andersson's speeches on several occasions, and the challenges of this kind of integration, or perhaps even the pressures of change, are well known and I am delighted to hear that. At the end of the day, education, education and training are about providing sufficient resources. And unfortunately, even in some municipalities there has been a situation of various austerity pressures in which special attention has not been given to the special children who need special support. This proposal in the referral debate today contributes, on its own property, to the responsibility of increasing the resources and, above all, information of special support.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u82	The 25th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u83	Mr President! In 2016, the so-called BEPS project to prevent the loss of the OECD tax base and profit transfer was agreed on a multilateral convention, the so-called MLI. The agreement implemented BEPS measures in connection with the tax agreement by allowing for the adaptation of a large number of bilateral tax agreements through a single multilateral agreement without the separate amendment of each bilateral agreement. BEPS measures are designed to amend income tax agreements so that the tax treaties clearly state the objective of preventing avoidance and avoidance. The tax agreement between Finland and Germany has now been amended in the sense of this Agreement so that the preamble to the Agreement mentions the objective of preventing and avoiding tax avoidance. In addition, the agreement defines the circumstances under which a contractual benefit should not be granted in respect of income. In the case of Finland and Germany, the amendment has been made in normal negotiations with the parties to the tax agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u84	Mr President! Congratulations to the new Minister for Finance Katri Kulmun for this presentation! The proposal itself is quite technical and short, but with the strength and strength to carry this larger portfolio of the Minister of Finance. Of course, these issues of tax evasion and avoidance are important and need to be reformed and updated accordingly, as well as with this agreement with Germany and the next agreement. It will also update our legislation to this day. — — — — This is very brief.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u85	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for his first appearance in this connection. Unfortunately, there are quite a small number of us here in terms of quantity, but the best in terms of quality, I'm sure. [Department : Yes! ] In the previous debate, I can say that in Jyväskylä it is by the way still a house on Cygnaeus Street, where this Karvi is located. That's where the Director-General should be moved, and the Minister. I'm sure my eyebrows can help you a lot. In this context, I would like to ask about plans to prevent tax evasion and the shadow economy at the moment in the Ministry of Finance. Have you had time to look into it yet? I don't think that's very deep. I understand that. But does your agent play an important role in actually tackling this problem?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u86	Mr President! On my side too, my warm congratulations on a new, demanding task, and as a partner in the government, I can say that I am sure that we will also give you all the support we can. I believe that this work, cooperation, is starting to be strong together. But, Mr President, with regard to this bill: The bill is very far from Parliament’s point of view technical. It will be updated and it will clarify the proposal. In order to avoid double taxation on tax revenues and to prevent tax evasion, Parliament approves the protocol amending the agreement with Germany in November 2019, i.e. the proposal is welcome and supported. A similar proposal is the next one, which then covers other countries, but — if I have understood it when I have seen it — there is a very great deal of the same type of proposal that I can support both proposals in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u87	Mr President! Thank you for these questions and for your comments and encouragement. Indeed, these two government proposals are quite technical updates in relation to existing tax agreements. Of course, in the interests of honesty, I have to admit that I have not yet been able to clarify all the details in this day and age. But of course there are generally the entries in the Government Programme to curb aggressive tax planning and, of course, Finland has also been very active in the OECD for a very long time, especially at the international level, which would then be able to balance these various problems with tax evasion. The positive thing, of course, from the perspective of Finland, is that, from the very smallest point of view, our tax deficit is from the very smallest point of view, which means that in Finland this issue is well dealt with. But it is important that we work together through the OECD first and foremost, and in the spring many of those Government Programme records will proceed, and Parliament will certainly be able to discuss them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u88	The 26th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-11-ps-80.u89	Mr President! In brief: The proposal proposes that Parliament give its consent to Finland's termination of the agreements it concluded between 2004 and 2005 with Anquilla, the British Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands, Guernsey, Jersey, the Isle of Man, Montserrat and the Turks and Caicos Islands on the taxation of savings income. These agreements have become redundant as all parties are currently applying the OECD International Standard for Automatic Exchange of Financial Account Information in the Tax Sector. It is therefore a question of technical legislation.
