ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Audit Committee on TrVM 9/2018 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided. Let's open a conversation. — Presentation, Chairman of the Committee, Mr Heinäluoma, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u2	Mr President! The National Audit Office has submitted us with a fiscal assessment report for the whole parliamentary term, i.e. for the years 2015 to 18. [Fresh—The President-in-Office]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u5	Mr President! In this respect, I believe that the committee has raised very important points which Mr Heinäluoma has just presented very well. As far as this assessment of the spending limits procedure is concerned, it is important that the treatment of investments will be assessed separately in the future. I would also like to underline one: the committee clearly states here that it was the right solution to move the YLE outside the spending limits. That was based on the views of the parliamentary group, all of them, and that is what we say separately in the report. The European Union's fiscal rules: it is a good thing that it is said that, for example, the structural residue code is very difficult and can be interpreted and that these must be developed and considered. Then I think it is very important, as Mr Heinäluoma has said, that we are also talking about the economic situation in Italy, among other things, and that it is very serious and we should be prepared to see that there are still certain problems to follow, and I think that the committee is quite right to say that, in this economic situation, it cannot be overemphasized that, in these times when EMU is being developed, attention should be paid to the principle that everyone is responsible for their own finances and their own debts. I think it is quite right that responsibility and caution should also be taken into account when developing EMU. President! I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this report by the National Audit Office stated, among other things, that this government will not achieve its objective of sustainability deficit. I would recall that it said that it was about 10 billion at the beginning of this reign and now it is about 9, so we are a long way from the sustainability deficit target. And, of course, when we look at the next term of government, there are certain dark clouds in this respect, because something has to be done, and it has been very unfortunate that the restructuring of this government was virtually at zero levels. And even with the war that is at that point, experts have said that when the wish was that the sustainability gap would be reduced through it, it could have been that if it had gone this way, the sign would have been quite different and difficulties would have arisen. This, in my view, brings us to the important issue of the direction of general economic policy, because the economy is still challenging. We still have value choices ahead of us next season, and I do not think it is right that the government has at present used it for its leeway for the upturn, which has been mainly for tax relief for the well-off: the tax relief for millions of inheritances, the tax relief for large-scale forest holdings, and yesterday, for example, we discussed these equity savings accounts, of which 160 million have been estimated to be lost again in the next parliamentary term. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, we are discussing very serious issues here in Finland, whether, for example, our elderly will receive valuable, good care, and we all know that today the situation is not at all satisfactory. There are shocking situations and we need more resources. We need, for example, the law to be its guardian,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u8	Madam President! I agree with Mr Viitanen that important value choices must be made in budgetary policy. But when Mr Viitanen said that they have not heard clearly the opinion of the Assembly on this number of carers, I would like to say unequivocally that we believe that all elderly people are well cared for, we believe that more carers are needed. But the government is now setting up a group of experts to consider the whole of this problem, and we do not think that this whole thing can be solved by putting a chapter in the law, but we are waiting for the work of this group of experts, which will look at the issue as a whole, taking into account, among other things, home care, informal care. We are very open-minded about this work, and when that work is done, then we will assess the outcome of its work. So we are not against it, we are not driving, we are evaluating it after the expert work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u9	Let's take a short debat here. I would ask those Members who wish to speak to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u10	Madam President! When the Katainen Government enacted a law on the services of the elderly, which was extremely important, the expected law, and when it was passed here — both the then government and the then opposition considered it important — it was missing this staffing dimension. And the lack of staffing was due to the fact that, although all the other government parties were driving and representing it, the Coalition Party objected. The Coalition Party was against it at the time and apparently is against it now. At the time it was found that if voluntary measures in one care centre — which according to the convention are sufficient — do not reach the conclusion that adequate care is available to the elderly, these minimum levels will be laid down at a legal or regulatory level. Well, now we've seen what the result is: no proper treatment. Yet this has not been laid down, and the coalition continues to oppose it. After all this, when all the other parties and experts see,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u11	Mr President! In this context, I would have spoken about that fiscal policy and said that perhaps one of the biggest challenges of this parliamentary term is that the major structural reforms have not been implemented, but that fiscal policy has followed a very pro-cyclical line. I am surprised that, when we know that there is a boom in 2017-2018, even at the peak of the economic cycle, we should then be able to freeze expenditure, but the structural deficit has been substantially increased, and it is precisely in it that the coalition has been the most important player as the Finance Minister's Party. I would also like to ask in view of the next parliamentary term where the Convention's tax policy programme is. Among other things, the Social Democrats have brought their own programme, the Greens have brought their own policies. I hear from the assembly quite often when Mr Vartiainen, Mr Suutari, Mr Lehti and many others speak, but where is the common line in order to discuss what will be done in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u12	Mr President! During this period, the Audit Committee has discussed the fiscal programme and the report annually. In fact, the starting point is that experts have always been more pessimistic about what has been achieved. It is also evident from the report that employment and economic objectives have been achieved even better and prematurely than anticipated. That is a good thing, and Mr Viitanen may not have been able to emphasise that. Then, of course, resource issues will continue to be addressed about how public finances are sufficient in Finland and Europe. Each Member State must play its part. Of course, care for the elderly is one for which we need more hands to care, which are not necessarily trained at the moment, and then the municipalities also need money. Here in Helsinki, we could share dividends from last year, but the municipalities in the rest of the country are:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u13	Mr President! First of all, when it really is that the sustainability gap is almost as great at the end of this parliamentary term as it was at the beginning of the parliamentary term, it is clear that there will be challenges in the next parliamentary term. But it is clear that there is a need to put care of the elderly in order. No one could have been surprised by this news, but it is good that this is now being discussed. The question is: are we prepared to take action here? Mr President! Mrs Zyskowicz and I have had a debate on this before. He now stated that the assembly does not object to the nurseship. In the past, contrary to what Minister Saarikko has said, the government has not announced that it will determine the size of the carer, but only the number of staff, which is contrary to what Minister Saarikko has said. It seems that this is what Minister Saarikko has proposed. Congressman Zyskowicz, did the board reject the determination of the nurseship in connection with the reform of the old-age service law?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u14	Honorable Speaker! In this context, VTV rightly points out that the economic impact of the social reform proved to be so difficult to predict that it could not be done. Now we are faced with the fact that we do not know what is going to happen with the reform of social security, and for the next parliamentary term we have anticipating that some 500 million should be able to save annually. This is a very problematic situation when we consider that we should nevertheless stick to the long-term, medium-term public objectives and the spending limits procedure. One of the key points I made about this transparency of the spending limits procedure: VTV felt it was a problem that Yle was taken outside, while the committee saw it as positive. This is what I'm wondering.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u15	Madam President! This committee's report did not specifically deal with the issue of the old-age service law, but when the President allows this to be debated, I think we do have very strong evidence that these recommendations do not provide good care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u20	Mr President! Of course, with regard to these measurements of elderly services, if there is a preparation of experts, it is quite an owl to begin to demand in advance what should then be recommended by its preparation of experts. In any case, anyone who makes promises here about different dimensions and additional resources should also answer the question of where these additional resources will be taken from.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u21	Madam President! When we were asked where the money could be found for these claims, here I would like to quote a respected member of the Committee on Finance. Olavi Ala-Nissila, who tweeted with regard to the voting rights: ‘The National Finance Minister’s political assembly has promised to remove the transfer of funds, the inheritance tax and the gift tax, as well as the abolition of car tax and the low income tax, Pension improvements are criticised, but tax populism has no limit.” [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u22	Madam President! There is no one magic chapter to solve these problems of care for the elderly — there is no such thing as an election near. That is why, Mr Lindtman, the government does not specifically deal with the inclusion of a nursing allowance in the law, but the government is carrying out a broader study by experts on the situation of care for the elderly as a whole, looking at the number of carers and also at home care, family care, prevention and so on. As far as the position of the Assembly is concerned, the Assembly believes that more nurses are needed, and the Assembly believes that measures are needed. The Coalition Party takes this expert work, which has left or is about to start, very open-mindedly. We do not impose pre-conditions that we should increase the dimensioning or not increase the dimensioning, but that we should be open-minded about it and evaluate the work when it is ready.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u23	Mr President! It is true, as Mr Zyskowicz said, that the government will not be able to cope with a separate legislation on the provision of services to the elderly, and no one has demanded that this work be carried out separately in connection with the reform of the old-age service law. Mr President! What is news is that even in the context of the reform of this old-age service law, even in the context of it, the government is not going to be able to cope with the carerisation. The fact sheet from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health states that there are only five entities here, one of which is the number of staff, competence, targeting, the need for experts. There's no nurseship here. And if the Minister has suggested that, either separately or at the very least in the context of this law, there will be an investigation into the nurseship, but it is not here, then, Mr Zyskowicz, was the assembly the one that prevented even the appointment of the carer in connection with the reform of the old-age service law?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u24	Mr President, Mr President! It is important that we discuss this exercise, but at the same time we discuss the budgetary policy and its situation throughout the parliamentary term. Mr Zyskowicz made a good point about the positions of the coalition on the management measure, but I would have liked to ask about taxation: does the assembly have a position on the tax package as to how it is to be carried forward? That's what I'm talking about. It is conditional that the employment rate of 75% should be achieved and that the sum of EUR 3 billion should come from somewhere. However, these are also things that are a little in the hands of the Lord, and in practice that immediate need for adaptation is quite great. That is why it is essential to discuss taxation, what type of solutions the Coalition Party is ready for. Is there, Mr Zyskowicz, on this matter, on the whole of taxation, going to be a response from the assembly as to how the whole of taxation should be carried out during the next parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u25	Madam President! Now that we have reached the status of the elderly service in this debate, it certainly sounds rather strange to the viewer that we are here to consider what kind of studies could be made when it is high time to recognise this state. We've got to get this thing into the law, otherwise it's not gonna work. This whole package must be evaluated and dealt with. Older people in Finland, who are the victims of this lack of care, deserve to hear that this is where this matter is now being put right and quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u26	Madam President! Even if Mr Zyskowicz's attempt to speak to the assembly somehow suggests that other parties would agree that simply recording the minimum size of personnel in the law would solve these problems alone — no, we do not think so. There is a great need for other measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u29	Mr President! Representative Aalto has already asked twice about the Convention's tax programme, and I must say that the Economic and Tax Programme of the future Prime Minister's Party will be of interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-22-ps-164.u35	Mr President! Here Mr Vähämäki asked for the framework for clearing the costs of the Finnish Broadcasting Company, its statement. The change to the previous one was that the government first moved to the framework of the Finnish Broadcasting Company at the beginning of the parliamentary term. This was considered to be bad for the independence of YLE, and the parliamentary working group unanimously argued that we should return to the old practice that YLE is outside the spending limits, so that there will be no situation in which the YLE will be forced to print with the help of the economy in order to achieve its journalistic objectives. So this was the unanimous position of the parties, and the Finns of Peru were also involved in this. The most important aspect of the framework is that spending limits are not circumvented during the parliamentary term, that it is credible and reliable to bring stability to central government finances and that it also facilitates the assessment by creditors of the state of central government finances. When the YLE was transferred outside the spending limits, it was cost-neutral. In this context, there was no change in the expenditure of the Finnish Broadcasting Company or also in the expenditure of the State, leaving some additional room for manoeuvre for the Government. That is why the committee considers that: [The President knocks ]
