ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u2	Congressman Urplainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u3	Mr President! We live for our children. In the name of the future of our children, many discussions are taking place in this house as well. On the weekend we heard dark news from Oulu and Helsinki that stopped us all. These suspicions of sexual crimes against children are, in a word, shocking. Sexual crimes are always deeply reprehensible. They are particularly repulsive when they target children. I would like to thank the government and all the parliamentary groups who took up the proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to look together here in Parliament,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u4	Mr President! The events that have taken place in Oulu are shocking, totally reprehensible. No woman or girl should be the victim of such shocking sex crimes. It is a very good thing that there has been a government-opposition-cross-border debate on this issue. I appreciate it, and we appreciate it very much. The fact that there was a common will in Parliament to ensure that the three proposals already submitted by the Government to Parliament to address these phenomena receive the support of all the parliamentary groups for their rapid passage is an extremely good thing. In addition, we also have two other important legislative proposals here, which I would also like to see widely supported in this Chamber. I would also like to say that the image that nothing has been done before is wrong. The government is determined, determined
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u5	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to register by pressing the V button and standing up. — Mr Urplainen, a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u6	Mr President! Indeed, sexual crimes against children are too common in today's Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u9	Mr President! As far as police resources are concerned, this government has, throughout its term of office, significantly increased police resources. When I was Minister of the Interior, I decided to increase the number of admissions to the Tampere Police College to the maximum of 400, and it has been kept there by the government. In addition, we have made sure that every policeman and woman who graduated there has been employed. This year we will be able to achieve even an increase in the number of police officers. We are — and I believe everyone is — committed to keeping this number of admissions to the Police College of Applied Sciences at a high level, leading to a higher number of police officers. As far as the amending budget is concerned, I now believe that these measures are essential, which we are actually doing to provide crisis assistance to the city of Oulu. They are being studied together with the City of Oulu. But when the government prepares further measures — the preparation has actually started in December before the new events in Oulu — if the content of these measures is such that more budget appropriations are needed already this year,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u10	A supplementary question, Mr Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u11	Mr President! I would also like, on my own behalf, to thank both the government parties and all the parliamentary groups for the fact that we really made rapid progress here, because this parliamentary term is at the end. The idea here was precisely that, if we find a common, strong message, a common vision of the rapid measures we can take during this parliamentary term, then the stronger message, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be sent out of this house. The message is that such acts, which we have read about, are totally reprehensible and totally outrageous and absolutely unacceptable here in Finland, as, of course, nowhere else. Mr President! There was also a consensus among parliamentary groups on these resources. It is an exceptional situation that Parliament now has common support for the fact that if the government wants to bring an additional budget to Parliament, there is support for it. In addition, we said together that it was important to pay attention to prevention, to prevent
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u12	There are two ministers who have asked for the floor, and I will grant them both this time, namely Minister Mykkänen first and Minister Saarikko after him.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u13	Mr President! I'm sure last weekend's news stopped us all. Some may have been surprised that such a phenomenon exists in Finland, but unfortunately this did not come as a surprise to the Ministry of the Interior, but we are already talking about a longer-term issue. Undoubtedly, the number of sexual crimes has increased. Measures have been taken — this government has been active in various ways to reduce the starting points for sexual offences in particular — and now even more. We are very pleased that Parliament has also stopped at this point and we will find broad support for the government's proposals that we have brought here in the autumn and for the specific measures that we are, of course, taking within the ministries at the moment, but we may also need an amending budget as the Minister for Finance said. What is particularly important is that when we are attracted to our young people on the Internet, unlike we were 20 years ago, we need to get in the way. There are effective concepts in online police activity,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u14	Mr President! Our particular task and responsibility for adults is to protect the child and the child, and its central element is the integrity of the child. There has been a strong case that has joined Oulu in the strongest but also in Helsinki, but when there is also an online approach and the result is always a serious attack on the sexual integrity of a child leading to crime titles, it is good to remember that this phenomenon does not know municipal boundaries or necessarily even the borders of our country. As far as the service system is concerned, we need to look at homes and support parents. I believe that even this wide-ranging social debate and action has brought this serious issue to the fore in Finnish homes. I am delighted and I am grateful for the work done by many of the Finnish organisations that we appreciate on this issue, and right now the government is discussing a whole that is related to support for organisations in the coming year, and that is where we are going to go through them,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u15	Ladies and gentlemen! Since there are more than one question coming up on this subject, let us now spend a lot of time, perhaps 40 minutes like that, if necessary a little more. Now, Congressman Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u16	Mr President! These sexual crimes did not come as a surprise to the True Finns, Minister Mykkänen. These pending legislative projects are a step in the right direction, but they are inadequate and, unfortunately, they are very late. Today a survey was published that 91% of the population want to banish foreign sex offenders, 68% consider Finland less safe for girls and women today because of asylum seekers, i.e. 68%, in Helsinki as much as half of sexual offences are committed by foreigners — today read. These statistics, which are quite shocking to read, will only be corrected by tightening up immigration policy, which you have not had enough desire to do. Today I have sent an invitation to the opposition to make an interim issue of internal security, and I hope that you will answer yes to my call. But I ask the government: are you finally going to take at least those who are illegally present and those who have received negative asylum decisions into custody in order to guarantee the safety of Finns?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u17	Mr President! According to representative Mere, the government has been slow — the government that negotiated the asylum policy agenda with the Finns, [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u18	Mr President! So you said at the end that you already have something on the table to tighten these up. Is there now clear guidance and legislation on the detention of illegal persons and those who have received a negative asylum decision? I want a clear answer to this. You were talking a lot more than that. And as far as this asylum policy programme is concerned, it was it that went quite well when the Finns of Peru were in the government, but we were thrown out because we were demanding that it be completed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u21	Mr President! There will be clarifications of the detention and arrest provisions which will be able to better address the problem. I'll ask you here, too, if anyone disagrees. In other words, if all those who have received a negative decision were detained — EUR 200 a day, 10,000 people at the moment about — it would be EUR 365 million a year.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u26	A supplementary question, Congressman Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u27	Mr President! Apparently, you always have to go back like a dog to vomit on the same question, but let's go back when you have to. In the summer of 2017, the only demand from the Finnish people, Jussi Halla-aho, was that Foreign Minister Soini should be changed to Foreign Minister Terho. There were no other demands. [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u28	Mr President! Now, after the turn of the year, crimes punishable by a penalty of more than a year, including these serious child abuse, can be dissolved and, in an accelerated procedure, expelled without even waiting for the court’s decision on the validity of the law. It is a very strong, sort of judgment from Finland as a nation for this phenomenon, and as far as the rule of law can go. More often, the challenge is that the host countries do not necessarily agree with this. This is, of course, something that we are also promoting together, that all countries of the world have an obligation under international law to take back their own citizens if they do not have the legal right to reside where they are and that country is returning them to their country of origin. But, as we know, we are faced with challenges here for a number of countries of asylum that are important to us. Of course, this work is carried out under the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but in very good cooperation, of course, we do what we can from the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u29	A supplementary question, Mr Adlercreutz.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u30	Irade the Talman! The RKP has been talking for a long time about these sexual crimes and preventing them. As early as 2005, Mikaela Nylander took a bill that focused on this grooming phenomenon. Today, a large proportion of sexual offences remain unreported. The notification threshold must be lower than today. Victims of crime need help and support to report a crime, not to mention mental support.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u31	Mr President! Thank you to the representative for the good question which I said earlier that it is precisely this Internet temptation to commit criminal activity, the exploitation of children, that is a special area where, of course, we do not have decades of tradition when the whole field of action has not existed. That's where we need to invest more. The number of million we are talking about is still under preparation, and then, of course, in the amending budget negotiations, if that is the case, we will look at these issues. I am pleased that the will of the Parliament seems to be broadly the fact that in this respect, Finnish society must make a definite blow to the fact that the Internet becomes safer, especially for children and young people. Of course, there is also the fact that we now have multi-professional Ankkuri teams, for example, where the police, social worker, child welfare worker sit in the same room, together solve problems in families or young people. We need more resources for this. Since the beginning of this year, we have increased the resources for suburban police, but we need a longer period of visibility. I hope this will mode is passed on.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u32	A fifth question has been asked on this subject. Congressman Päivi Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u33	Mr President! According to a UN study, most Arab men do not believe that equality is compatible with their own culture. Therefore, it is particularly critical at the outset to teach asylum seekers the rules of the Finnish society, and are you aware, Minister Mykkänen, that there are no statistics and no follow-up of participation in social courses in reception centres, and that in practice the reception allowance can be reduced by 20% if there is no participation in these courses, but at least this sanction is generally not fully applied, and often in the fear of disorder? Would you be prepared to make the reception allowance a consideration, so that it will be paid only if it is accepted to complete these courses, and to make access to asylum conditional on having completed the course and also having understood it so that it would be tested by experiment?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u34	Mr President! The reception allowance is in itself a consideration. We have imposed an obligation on all residents of reception centres over 16 years of age to complete the basic course of Finnish society, which also deals with equality and sexual rights and equality as its own entities. Now, in November, new equality and equality materials have been sent to reception centres and a new video series has been made in December. As far as asylum criteria are concerned, as Mrs Räsänen is sure to know, asylum applications are dealt with through the threat of personal persecution and torture, whether this criterion is met, and if secondary protection is involved, whether the country of origin is so dangerous that no human being can be sent back to it, and this is a question that we do not have the possibility, in the framework of the ban on the return of the Constitution, to include the requirement for a course. However, the reception allowance is free of charge, and I agree with the representative that we have already included as one measure the clarification that each reception centre will hold to this obligation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u35	Mr President! These appalling suspicions of crime in Oulu have shocked Finland as a whole, and our primary responsibility as decision-makers for the Finnish people in this situation is to consider, together and objectively, ways of genuinely effective and feasible ways to prevent violence and sexual crimes against children and young people and to improve victim support services throughout the country. Mr President! Non-governmental organisations have been warning for years of online temptation against children, and it is already illegal to attract a child for sexual purposes under the current law. However, this article of the Criminal Code is not applied very often, and experts suspect that it is due to the fact that too rarely online temptations continue to report criminal offences to the police. I would therefore ask the minister concerned: how does the government intend to invest in reducing the notification threshold for events like this and online attraction?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u36	Mr President! A very good and important question. I think that in certain cases, simply teenage children may not be the first to go to the police to talk. For example, the social security.fi service, which is a service set up by voluntary legal practitioners and psychologists, allows one forum online to first approach anonymously and get advice and also get a crime report going without having to go to the door of the police station itself. Then it is important that teachers in schools — and, of course, in the context of their hard work — also be empowered to take up youth stories and give them space. The same applies to child welfare and youth workers. Often in the case of victims, there is a situation in which many authorities are also involved, and that is precisely what we know about youth work, child welfare or social work, that these are essential issues and that we must immediately send out a message and encourage the young people to tell us. Would I say that I believe that one side of this phenomenon, which is ahead of us and which is a great tragedy and an appalling situation,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u37	Mr President! We are talking here about serious sexual offences, which very often have long-term effects. And it must also be said that the proportion of immigrants in these crimes is unfortunately significant. Every case is too much, it can't go on like this. This has to change. I would also like to thank the House for finding exceptional and rapid cooperation, for doing what can be done to combat these crimes: tougher penalties, better tools are given to the police to combat these crimes, and expulsion will be made easier. These are the kind of criminals we don't want in our country. Mr President! One more corner of this debate has been missing, and I ask Minister Saarikko for the perspective of a normal family man or mother or grandparents. Many of them are concerned about this situation. What can they do? How should they feel about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u38	Mr President! I believe that a surprising question may arise for us parents as to the extent to which there is a gap in the use of the same Internet for different generations and that the phenomena and channels in which we operate are very different from those of minors. In this respect, the authorities have produced excellent information, both under the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and under the Ministry of Education, including information for adults on what to contact, and also what is the appropriate way to bring things up and talk to their own children. It is also easy to agree with Mr Mykkänen's assessment that if the most natural subject from a young person's point of view tells of the sexual harassment or temptation that he encounters, it is important that the youth work, schools, hobbies and other services of our service society are also known and available to the young people at that time, of course, to the authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u39	Mr President! Every sexual offence is too much, and these tightening up of criminal policy is fully justified. Minister for Justice Mr Häkkänen has already brought us to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights these tightening ups. In fact, when I have met perhaps hundreds of victims of sexual crimes in the police’s violent crime unit, it has become more and more of a question in the course of this decade, as early as 15 years ago, of how to prevent them. There have been good ways here, and this kind of online police is very good, that kind of thing needs to be. The police need to patrol the Internet in exactly the same way they do among young people on the street. But then there is the challenge of this kind of so-called revealing investigation which I was involved in launching over ten years ago. It produced great results. Scientists revealed such paedophile circles online. Investigators were able to prevent crime. After all, police training is now fully operational — thank you, Minister of Finance Orpo — we will not be able to get more quickly. We need this revealing investigation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u40	Mr President! I have given a mandate to the Police Board to prepare programmes on various scales on how to actually hire secretaries of investigation on the civilian side, on the one hand, how to free trained police officers by hiring more police guards, for example, how perhaps to make an offer to some retired police officers for a few years to come, especially to experienced researchers, who are indeed required for these difficult and often very burdensome cases of sexual crime or for revealing investigations. It is not just anyone who can achieve results and is unable to work effectively on these incredibly tragic issues. But quite rightly, it is precisely these measures that are necessary, because in the short term, although, fortunately, thanks to this government and the finance minister, there are now a hundred more police officers than in the previous year, we have stopped the decrease in the number of policemen and turned them into a slight increase, a sudden leap in the number of police officers cannot, of course, be made because their training takes place.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u41	Mr President! Many Finns have been shocked not only by the terrible recent sexual crimes but also by the fact that the awakening to the effective fight against these crimes, the rights of women, girls and children, seems to be taking place only now. However, it is estimated that between 200,000 and 300,000 people, including children, have been raped in Finland over the last 20 years. I ask the government: have you in this context considered how the position and rights of children, women, girls in this society still need to be improved and changed so that everyone living and staying in this society understands it? Oulu residents and other Finns know what to do in child protection, police activities, the fight against sexual offences and reception centres,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u42	Mr President! I do not think it is fair to say that Finland is now waking up to this phenomenon. It is right and absolutely necessary for us to have this wide-ranging social debate. On the government side, there have been reports of legislative proposals relating to both sexual punishments and immigrants. But as regards the status of girls and women, or the victims of rape, as you have just mentioned, Finland approved the Istanbul agreement, the agreement on violence against women, a few years ago, and it has led to a great many measures. I will mention just a few of them: the Zeroline telephone service, which has been unfortunately popular, where the victim of violence can contact anonymously. The Seri centres, the centres of victims of sexual crime, which we are now discussing, could we extend their activities to those under the age of 16, and could the better treatment of sexual crimes against children also be coordinated at the level of our university hospitals? There are also excellent operating models for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u43	Mr President! It is not directly true that the fight against sexual crimes or the rights of women, girls, have been raised in some way after the events in Oulu. This government has taken forward the penalty blackmail programme, which has already been brought to Parliament in the autumn. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is discussing, among other things, a package of sanctions for sexual crimes against children, to which the opposition parties have now also expressed their support this week — thank you for that. At the same time, for a year now, the Ministry of Justice has also been preparing a comprehensive reform of the regulation on rape and exploitation, which I published the day before yesterday, that the basis for consent will be strengthened in the legislation on rape and so will abuse offences, sexual intercourse with children, will be brought into the sphere of rape offences. This is the guidance for the thorough drafting of the law that should be done carefully,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u44	A supplementary question, Mr Väyrynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u45	President! First of all, I would like to express my deep disapproval at the fact that the parliamentary group of the Star Movement was not invited to the negotiations last Tuesday. Maybe they didn't want to hear our opinions. The fact is that the main cause of these recent terrible events is the ultra-liberal immigration policy that we have been pursuing, especially in the autumn of 2015, when, despite the demands, border controls were not restored.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u48	Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u49	Mr President! It is a good thing that this question of 15 was raised here. When the whole of Europe was caught by this avalanche of asylum seekers, which then also affected Finland, then we acted with great determination,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u50	A supplementary question, Mr. Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u51	Mr President! We cannot accept the rape and sexual exploitation of any human being. It is particularly reprehensible when sexual abuse is directed against a child or a young person. These recent tragic events have triggered a strong debate on sexual violence. I believe, however, that we should now also have a very strong debate on how to prevent and prevent sexual violence. It is a very difficult matter and one must be able to speak and discuss it properly so that we do not cause further anxiety or fear, but increase security and proper information. This information is also important for parents. This information is also important if we are to increase our skills in schools, youth work, organisations and adults working there. Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Grahn-Laasonen: what measures has the Ministry of Education and Culture taken?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u52	Mr President! On Monday, right after the weekend events, the Finnish National Board of Education as an expert agency gathered material and material for schools from two points of view to support the work of our skilled teachers to support young people. The schools have already received material in the past, and it has now been re-assessed to identify and address sexual violence, harassment, and then another aspect is to teach and increase the security skills of social media. We have strong records of them in the education plans already in force, and we have also provided additional material to the schools through the Finnish National Board of Education. School is a safe environment. There reliable adults support young people, and homes are also important in this work. We are also preparing, for our part, possible additional measures to further strengthen this training of social media security skills.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u53	Mr President! Together with Mr Heinonen during the last parliamentary term, we took an initiative signed by more than a hundred Members of Parliament, including all the Members of Parliament then in the centre. In this respect, we call for the gross sexual abuse of a child to be made a crime that will never age. At the time, we had cases in which the perpetrator admitted the act but could not be prosecuted when the act became obsolete. We thought it was a flagrant flaw. We took this initiative together with the victims. They described the gross sexual abuse of a child as a murder that survives. They said that they often feel like they're going to have a life sentence and they're going to find out who did it easier. I would like to ask the Minister if we could also make the necessary correction to this ageing period in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u54	Mr President! Sexual crimes against children, especially these most serious ones, cause permanent, life-long damage, that is quite clear. I have met these people and also organisations who help these victims, people between the ages of 60 and 70, who tell me that they have carried this issue within themselves — if they have not ended up with some more unpleasant actions before. That's long-term trauma. What can be done to expose the problem in practice in general, often too late? In other words, in sexual offences against children, that threshold for reporting and disclosure is the very essence of the issue. The fact that these often occur in the circle of loved ones and families makes them particularly difficult. The limitation period has already been set quite long. The fact that the investigation would take place in decades to come — the police, on the other hand, have said that it is very difficult to find any evidence, but I am prepared to look at this limitation period. In fact, it is already happening in a preordained manner.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u55	Mr President! It is good that asylum policy is being raised here, because it is at the heart of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u58	Mr President! I will try not to draw attention to these inappropriate references. I'll answer the question myself. You know very well, Mr President, when you were a representative of the government party, that from 15 onwards dozens and dozens of measures were taken. Together, we had a programme of measures to address this acute crisis. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u60	One last supplementary question.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u61	Mr President! Indeed, as many colleagues in this Chamber have said, it is important that we also talk about the prevention of sexual crime, and then we are talking about the responsibility of everyone living in Finland to comply with the laws and also respect the representatives of the other sex. Those born in the country can be affected by education and training for years. Influencing those who move to the country with adults is more limited. The key is integration, which must be accompanied by the adoption of values relating to equality between women and men. It is important that this is a common message for all. In Finland, laws are observed, the rights of women and girls are respected, i.e. they live in the country the way they do. That is why I am glad that the parliamentary groups have jointly highlighted what Finnish citizenship means. Mr President! This has, as a rule, been a good debate on an important issue,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u62	Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u63	In the Prime Minister's announcement of the position to take the Prime Minister, let's leave it to him. But, of course, this debate must continue. This has been an extremely important debate, and it is extremely important that now the whole of Parliament — at least it seems that almost the whole Parliament — is determined to take these joint actions, supporting those government proposals to the Parliament. And hopefully, as the government carefully prepares for further action to eradicate sexual crime against women, girls and women in this country,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u69	Next question, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u70	Mr President! New funding models for universities and universities of applied sciences were announced today. They show that the steering power of the Ministry is strengthened and that the steering of the results is becoming even more intense. Higher education funding in Finland is relatively exceptional internationally, as the vast majority of funding received is based on competition and performance guidance. Universities compete with each other every year for diminishing resources. University staff and students are tired of this short-term thinking and uncertainty, and these new models do not improve. That is why I ask Minister Grahn-Laasonen: why did the financial models strengthen the Ministry's guidance and tighten up the management of results even further?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u71	Mr President! Today, the funding model for universities and universities of applied sciences was indeed established for the future contract period. Exceptionally, it has been prepared in an exceptionally broad composition, i.e. universities, students and staff and key stakeholders, and this decision of the Government is based on their almost unanimous proposal. Human resources organisations had their own comments on this, which we have also worked on. These relate in particular to staff welfare issues and stability in the financing of higher education institutions and to the working conditions of personnel researchers, university staff, and in this respect work is still to be carried out by a working group during this government term. But what was essential in this model of higher education funding is that the aim is to increase the level of education, increase the opportunities for continuous learning and higher education.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u72	Mr President! We're living in the middle of a job break-in. Even hundreds of thousands of people need to be re-educated, not to mention further training. One of the main themes of the higher education vision working group chaired by the Minister for Education has also been continuous learning, as the Minister has just said. However, in today's published models, higher education institutions are penalised for having their students undertake another equivalent degree. Higher education institutions receive half the money from a student with another degree, which means that there is no point in taking changers to higher education institutions. I would like to ask Mr Grahn-Laasonen: why was the funding factor for the second degree made an element of punishment, even though it is clearly contrary to the objective of continuous learning?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u73	Mr President! In fact, this new proposal significantly strengthens the role of continuing learning and funding in higher education institutions. For universities, it even doubles the funding factor for continuous learning in this new model. And when you referred to these coefficients in your speech, I would ask you to review the model adopted today. This coefficient has been corrected upwards in relation to the response to the opinion, and the situation in the form of the feedback to the opinion has then been made available — including these concerns that have been involved — to hear. Continuous learning is a strong theme in the preparation process, even for the future term of government. More and more of us, and in fact everyone, need opportunities to learn new things through their careers, and that is where we go. There has also been legislation recently. Continuous learning has become a new task for universities. It has been enshrined in legislation and has created conditions, opened up opportunities and increased by more than 100 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u74	Next question, Congressman Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u75	Mr President! Over-indebtedness and default marking are a major social problem. There are now more default entries than ever, over 380,000. Over-indebtedness and enforcement create incentive traps, from which it can be difficult to get up. Combating over-indebtedness is a difficult issue. Poverty reduction and the strengthening of economic skills are essential. Quick levers and their advertising must be subject to legislation. The availability of debt counselling should be improved. Social credit can also be a good way to prevent the risk of getting into and out of the spiral, but only about 30 municipalities offer it at the moment and the conditions for obtaining social credit are very strict. Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister if the government could start the legislative process on extending social credit to Finland as a whole and amending its terms of reference in order to improve its availability.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u76	Mr President! With the Minister of Justice Häkkänen, we will briefly consider, during the question, that the issue is indeed, in a certain way, the responsibility of two administrative sectors. As you said, there are over-indebtedness issues and the related debt counselling system, which can also see a strong social dimension, and then, as you mentioned, there is a system of social credit. I myself have drawn the same attention to the fact that it is a relatively little-in-use system, despite the fact that its consequences could be long-term from an economic point of view, but not to mention to reduce the mental pressure associated with the lack of resources. I think it is worth exploring, also in the light of the future combination of social welfare and health care and regional reform, who, in the new model, would be responsible for this figure and whether it could be disseminated and developed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u77	Mr President! Thank you for your positive attitude. I really hope that social credit will go all over Finland and will be made more accessible to those who need it. One major problem with over-indebtedness is the criminality of default marking for up to two to four years, even in cases where the debt has already been paid. It is difficult to understand why people who have already settled their debts are being hanged for years in a situation where the basic conditions of life, such as access to housing and telephone lines, are being jeopardised by a default marking. In a bill signed by a total of 138 MPs last year, it was proposed that default marking should be abolished once the debt has been settled or the reason for it has become obsolete. I would now like to ask the Minister whether you intend to take this initiative forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u78	Mr President! In Finland, the debt problem is currently growing. An increasing number of households and an increasing number of individuals have come into debt spirals and are causing extremely difficult human situations. Of course, we face traditional challenges — bankruptcy for an entrepreneur, sickness, unemployment or other, and unable to pay for a loan, or else perhaps in ordinary everyday chores too much shopping and thus drift into a debt cycle — and this little more recent phenomenon, rapids and excessive interest rates, is also one that needs to be tackled in this context. At the moment, the government is actually taking exactly the measures that have been brought up here. Financial and debt counselling will be increased, enforcement will make it more encouraging to take up work, a positive credit register is under way, and the processing of credit data will be reformed at all. In other words, the reform of the Credit Information Act will take place and its preparation is already under way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u79	Next question, Mr Ala-Nissila.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u80	Mr President! On Tuesday, the British Parliament rejected the negotiated Brexit agreement. Britain has options left, all bad ones, and it seems that there is no majority emerging behind anything, so this is going to go on for an unfortunate long time. Finns who live in Britain — why not also the British who live in Finland — are concerned. Finnish companies that export products from the forest industry, chemical products, food, services are also concerned. I would like to ask Foreign Minister Soin: what is your message now to Finnish citizens and Finnish export companies that how do we find out?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u82	Mr President! Of course, the key here is for the British Parliament and for them to decide what kind of Brexit they want, because they rejected the agreement they had negotiated with the European Union. I agree with the questioner that there are only bad options left. However, we now have until Monday time for Prime Minister Theresa May to present a road map, possible new openings, how we can move forward. Every ministry has made a so-called hard brexit.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u83	Next question, Congressman Talvitie.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u84	Mr President! During this period, we have promoted an asylum policy that guarantees humane and humane treatment and at the same time is sufficiently strict and robust. In 2018, around 2,400 new asylum applications were submitted and the number is the same as in the other Nordic countries. However, almost the same number of re-applications were submitted, around 2,000. Many applicants have submitted a number of re-applications in a row, and the public wonders why there are so many re-applications. The asylum system will not work if the person who has obtained the final negative decision does not leave the country and cannot be removed from the country. Now the system is even being used to avoid, delay or delay a final decision. The related law, i.e. the legislative amendment limiting the misuse of a re-application, is already in the Parliament. It is one of the major changes in the law that would allow us to improve and target the use of public resources. A legislative amendment could prevent:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u85	Mr President! What is most important is that the bill is properly dealt with and hopefully that we will be able to prevent a situation in which the sense of justice is being abused for the purpose of delay, using the possibility of re-applications. It is clear that, in some cases, the first round of proceedings, for reasons beyond the control of the applicant, has not taken into account all aspects of persecution, and in this case a re-application must be possible. But it is quite true that even at the point of return, applications are being submitted at the airport, knowing, of course, that this will lead to processing, cancellation of the refund. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u86	Next question, Mr Väyrynen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u87	President! Foreign Minister Soini said that the key to the solution was in Britain. But they are also in the European Union. When this process started in the first place, David Cameron suggested that the European Union should be reformed so as to restore decision-making powers to the Member States and prevent the Union from interfering too much in the affairs of the Member States. Unfortunately, Brussels bureaucrats and federalists rejected this and the Brexis were born. The British decided to resign. Now, after all, the further discussion of this will be the beginning of negotiations on a new relationship in any case. The negotiations will last for a couple of years. We know that in many Member States of the Union — most of the Member States of the Union — the moods have changed in such a way that those original aims of David Cameron enjoy broad support. Is the government prepared to begin discussions on the establishment of an intergovernmental conference,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u88	Mr President! It is quite clear that the European Union is in a new situation in any case when Britain is breaking up with it. I am absolutely sure that, when we have elections to the European Parliament in all EU countries on 25 May, this battle or debate on the direction of Europe will take place within each country. Once the European Parliament is formed, there will be no new Commission without its contribution. At the same time, we have a multi-annual financial framework negotiations. I agree with Mr Väyrynen that this will not go quite the same way. It is, in fact, a good thing that every country, including Finland, is having an in-depth debate on the direction of a European Union that we believe would be worth preserving and developing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u89	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 26/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u90	Mr President! According to the Paris climate agreement, the global average temperature increase must be limited to less than 2°C, reaching 1.5°C. This requires a global balance between greenhouse gas emissions and sinks by the middle of the century. The October report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change described the dramatic differences between 1.5 and 2 degrees. There is not enough time to turn global emissions into a permanent decline for many years. After a few years of stabilisation, global emissions increased again last year. All countries now need to make greater and faster emission reductions in order to combat climate change. The EU and Finland are committed to the Paris Agreement and, following the IPCC report, the EU has already announced its readiness to update our own commitment in 2020. Mr President! The most important single instrument for reducing emissions in the EU is emissions trading. Unfortunately, emissions trading has not worked well enough so far because the number of allowances has been too high and the price of allowances has remained too low. Emissions trading has therefore not had an adequate steering effect. The current amendment to the Emissions Trading Act implements the amendment to the EU Emissions Trading Directive to prepare for the next trading period 2021-2030. The main thrust of the directive and this legislative amendment is good. Efforts are being made to improve the functioning of the system. The amendments aim to increase the ambition of the emissions trading system and to strengthen the steering effect of the scheme. The references are that the chosen means and, for example, the market stability reserve have already improved the steering effect of emissions trading and increased the price of allowances. Mr President! The joint climate commitment of the eight parties in December states that emission allowances entering the market must be reduced significantly more than the current 2.2% reduction per year, unused allowances must be cancelled and emissions trading extended. Parliament should now dare to follow its agreed climate policy line. In addition, the paper states that we will tighten the emission reduction obligation under the Finnish Climate Change Act and we will reach a situation in Finland in the 2040s where our greenhouse gas emissions are clearly negative, i.e. we will use sinks to remove more greenhouse gas emissions from the atmosphere than we produce. In addition, it is stated that: Finland will increase climate finance in development policy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, adapt to climate change and strengthen carbon sinks. Mr President! The effectiveness of the Emissions Trading Act should therefore be further clarified in terms of the cancellation, flexibility and use of emission auction revenues in order to reflect this commonly agreed climate policy approach. Under the Emissions Trading Directive, Member States have the right to cancel allowances in the event of a closure of power generation capacity in their territory due to additional national measures. In Finland, this means, for example, stopping the use of coal for energy purposes. As the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection states in its unanimous opinion, only the cancellation of allowances will ensure the climate impact sought. The cancellation of allowances should therefore be an unambiguously guiding principle, as stated in the joint party climate statement, and should not be left to the level of opportunity and discretion of the Government. Mr President! The second necessary clarification relates to the one-off flexibility between the emissions trading sector and the non-emission trading burden sharing sector. Increased knowledge of the rapid timetable required to curb climate change makes it necessary to re-evaluate the use of flexibility. At least in the early part of the trading period, flexibility should not be used, but should be maintained until the end of the decade, when it is already becoming more difficult to achieve emission reductions in the burden-sharing sector. Thirdly, emissions trading revenues should be directed towards climate finance, for example, the development of clean technologies and the mitigation and adaptation of climate change in developing countries. This objective is also agreed in the climate policy of the eight parliamentary parties. Mr President! The common lines of the parliamentary parties should therefore be more clearly reflected in Parliament's report and decisions. With regard to these three points, therefore, we in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy have raised an objection with the Social Democrats, in which we present three statements which we hope will be adopted by Parliament at second reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u91	The request to speak by the chairman of the committee was not just in the place where it belongs. I'm sorry I missed it from over there. — But now Mr Mölsä.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u92	Mr President! Let's go into this protocol order then at this point. Government proposal: The proposal proposes to amend the Emissions Trading Act. The amendment would implement the amendment to the EU ETS Directive to prepare for the trading period 2021-2030. The proposed amendments relate in particular to the procedure for applying for free allocations, the provision of the required information and the allocation of allowances. The Government would be given the authority to decide on the use of allowances in order to achieve the emission reduction obligation of the non-ETS sector. The Government is also given the authority to decide on the cancellation of allowances in cases where electricity generation capacity is closed in Finland due to additional national measures. In both cases, the quantity of allowances to be auctioned in Finland would be reduced accordingly. In addition, the tasks of the authorities related to the granting of free allocation would be transferred from the Ministry of Employment and the Economy to the Energy Agency. In addition, a number of technical changes would be introduced. The proposed law is intended to enter into force as soon as possible. The proposals contained in the proposal can be grouped into three key areas for the objectives: Firstly, the proposal would implement nationally the amendment to the EU Emissions Trading Directive to adapt emissions trading to the EU 2030 climate framework. Secondly, the Commission's free allocation regulation would be implemented and a national procedure would be established for the application and allocation of allowances. Thirdly, there would be a need for national changes to the system. However, the draft law would not imply changes to the core principles of emissions trading. Savings issues at the heart of the assessment by the Economic Committee on the Proposal include, in particular, the scope of emissions trading, the development needs, the mandate given to the Government to cancel allowances and the one-off flexibility to meet the emission reduction commitments of the burden-sharing sector. Mr President! The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers the proposal of the government to be justified and appropriate and supports the adoption of the draft law contained in the proposal with minor technical amendments and the arguments put forward, including the following: In various contexts, for example in its reports on the energy and climate strategy in 2016 and 2017, the Committee on Economic Affairs has highlighted the priority of a functioning emissions trading system as a tool for climate policy. The price of allowances was long lower than expected and the control effect of emissions trading has been lower than expected. The system has been strengthened and the market stability reserve that removes the surplus of allowances will start in 2019. Since the summer of 2017, the price of allowances has risen significantly and it is estimated that this increase will continue. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy draws attention to the review clause of the Emissions Trading Directive, which allows the reduction coefficient to be tightened in the five-year review of the Paris Agreement. In this respect, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also refers to the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the need for a review. Emissions trading is a key instrument for achieving climate objectives, but other key elements for the functioning of energy markets must also be assessed. In addition to meeting climate targets, Finland should be a competitive environment for energy-intensive industries and competing for investments, such as data centres at Nordic level. In particular, investments such as data centres, whose orientation towards Finland is justified from the point of view of international climate policy, should be promoted through energy policy instruments. And the committee's proposal for a decision is that Parliament, as amended, accepts the bill contained in the government proposal, and the amendments would be mainly technical. And, as Mr Sarkkinen has already said, there are two objections to the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u93	Mr President! This government proposal is actually quite technical and prepares for the forthcoming trading period at the turn of the 30s. However, there are very important and important issues here, and there is certainly a broad consensus on them, but perhaps there was also disagreement about certain priorities. The Government will now have its decision-making powers and rights to use allowances for the non-ETS sector, so that we can also achieve emission reduction obligations when emissions fall, and, of course, there will also be powers for the Government to do so. I think that this waiver of discretion is a very good thing. The issue that may not always be so strongly raised in this climate debate for Finland when you think about our industrial structure and think about how energy-intensive industries are in Finland is, is above all how it enables us to make an entirely new type of industrial policy. It is perhaps a little unfortunate that it is seen more as a blame for public debate, although it could also be a solution to a great many climate issues and problems. I find it fascinating that if Finland, in the northernmost latitudes of the world, is able to have an industry as large as we have, then if we managed to do it here as the first fossil-free world in the world, it will become the case of the class that it will be of interest to us with certainty anywhere in the world. Of course, this is also an important question for us from an investment point of view, how we are a competitive country and how we can create a new industrial base here all the time. If you think about that industrial renewal, a large part of the innovations will be created precisely in the traditional industry, which certainly has a great deal to do to ensure that they will be able to tell everyone. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy drew attention to this. Of course, the central point here is that we have competitively priced electricity in this country, and it can also open up entirely new investment opportunities in the form of data centres, for example. All in all, I would see that these big players, who use a lot of electricity, are, above all, part of the solution and not part of the problem, and Finland should also be able to develop the business structure that has been created for us over time, in such a way that we are able to offer expertise to other countries to respond to the call where we need to be fossil-free as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u94	Mr President! This government proposal will implement its amendment to the Emissions Trading Directive for the next decade. It is a good thing that this euro-bureaucrat is being mastered and put into effect — in this country it is now a normal procedure without any major buzzing. But the thing I am a little annoyed about in energy policy in Finland is that even now we are importing a huge amount of electricity from abroad and we are not self-sufficient in that regard either. The reserves that we have in our own raw materials in this country — renewable energy almost unlimited, or not unlimited, but plenty and much — should be used much more efficiently. And we should find a national consensus on the fact that we use these forest resources wisely and well, that we use wind power wisely and well in the future and that we also use other domestic raw materials. Yeah, we have to use the peat, too. It's our security of supply fuel. A nation that does not care about its own future and prepares itself for the crisis that will one day come... Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, whether we are well prepared for this, even if there is a more serious trade crisis in the world, when normal world trade would not take place. At the moment, if it were to start tomorrow — no one would hope for it, of course, but the wise prepares and survives even after that — we would have the situation in front of us that we would be in trouble with the energy raw material and in many other areas we would be in trouble. Imagine that in such an electric-intensive state as Finland, who consumes huge amounts of electricity by making good products, good services, despite whether it was in the second January, such a situation that electricity distribution was there and that it broke down. My own production and imported electricity production at that moment were just enough for the consumption we had at the beginning of January. This information can be found on Fingrid's website. But in any case, Mr President, on this energy issue — emissions trading, or non-emission trading — I would like to see us Finns finally and finally begin to understand our own best in this regard, dare to look beyond the wall, whether we live in the city or live on land. We have a huge amount of energy in this country and a lot of know-how, even though this CHP production, which is now, unfortunately, a little bit of it, is slowly driving down. For decades we have been building it, making it a huge brand in this country, and now it feels like it has no value anymore, or at least it is in a hard sale. That is how I feel sad every day that the nation has come to this. And then the fact that this city is burning huge amounts of coal every day and, at the same time, we here are horrified that this climate policy should be managed by someone. I wonder if now is the time to put an end to the burning of coal and return to the situation where our western neighbour, Sweden, already exists. Stockholm is known not to use coal, but to burn domestic raw materials.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u95	Mr President! The objection tabled in the report by the Group of the Finns Party and Mrs Huhtasaari contains a proposal for a statement and, in my opinion, a very important point that I would like to raise, namely that climate policy should now take our national interests first and foremost into account, as is stated in our statement. Finland has handled its climate policy well and exemplaryly. It would now be time for other countries, both in Europe and especially in the rest of the world, to shoulder their own responsibility for the climate. There is no reason for us to weaken our competitiveness in terms of climate action in relation to competing countries. We have high labour costs, cold climates, long distances, and yet we have managed to put things in such good shape. Now it is time for the other countries of Eastern Europe in particular to take care of their own affairs. Then we'll think more after that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u96	Mr President! In this respect, it could be said to Mr Hoskonen that Finland has already exceeded its own objectives in the fight against climate change and is an example, especially for the countries of Eastern Europe, where coal still plays an important role in energy production. With regard to climate policy obligations in the EU, I believe that the internal burden sharing needs to be balanced, as more than 60% of total trade in EU countries is trade between countries. In Finland, coal accounts for only 6.7 per cent of electricity production, compared with 92 per cent in Poland, 90 per cent in Bulgaria, 90 per cent in Romania, 48 per cent in Denmark and 46 per cent in Germany, and coal production is still subsidised in eastern Germany. Finland therefore has the coldest climate in the EU and the longest distances, and if we want to maintain a viable national economy in Finland, energy supplies must be secured. In Finland, electrical energy must continue to be produced with versatile production: nuclear, water, coal, peat and bioproduction. We need to maintain our diverse energy. Indeed, we tabled a proposal for a statement precisely because we should cut those emissions where they are most economically sensible and easiest to take. Poland, for example, and other countries that are most polluting, must take their responsibilities. True Finns encourage Finland to adopt an ambitious climate policy for the emissions trading sector in EU installations and to demand, for example, that Germany and other EU countries at least contain coal production. The Finns Party would like to remind you that fair emissions trading per real estate in the EU is also impossible. As I have already said, Finland's climate is the coldest in the EU, and it would only dramatically increase the housing costs of Finns. The future revenues from emissions trading must be allocated to more than climate work. There were good things in that report, I admit it, but we have tabled such a statement, an objection, because we need to make a more sensible climate policy. It is quite interesting how this climate realism has gotten a little out of hand when it has become a competition for parties like this, but fortunately we Finns are playing with facts and we always remind you that Finland accounts for only 0.14 per cent of global emissions and when we really want to reduce emissions, Chinese production, we should not drive our own industry into Asian countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u97	Mr President! This EU directive, but also this report from our committee, also includes the creation of two funds during the trading period 2021 to 2030, namely the Innovation Fund, the aim and purpose of which is to make innovation in low-carbon technologies and processes, and the Modernisation Fund, which, in turn, would support investments in a more energy-efficient way, especially in these less prosperous countries. It is very important that less prosperous countries are also included in this climate action. These funds would be implemented through the allocation of a certain proportion of the auction income for the financing of the funds. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy sees that this innovation and climate finance are hand-in-hand and that these solutions are indeed being achieved. We have a lot of good innovations, but a lot of them may then be linked to the acquis here. We in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy are in the process of having a distribution obligation, and we have been wondering whether more synthetic renewable fuels, among other things, can be used, but we also have to look at what this RED II list is doing. I hope that these various EU measures and directives, which are now laid down here, will also blow in one direction so that we really do not have to use this coal so much. As I said yesterday, coal is an excellent instrument for the carbon sequestration of the climate when it is kept there in the ground.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u98	Mr President! Indeed, this kind of energy policy is certainly a really, really important issue for Finland, and these emissions trading systems have been created for this climate policy in order to create the situation that the world would produce ever cleaner energy. But just as many speakers have said about the use of coal in some countries, I cannot suddenly imagine the way they would pass it. In the European Union, Poland may be country number 1 and Germany as country number 2 — depending on how you look at it, however, these two coal superpowers will certainly continue to use coal in 30 years' time. Germany has still decided, in its fierceness, to abandon nuclear power. I would like to see that the metal melts in the Ruhr area operate on solar cells or wind power. I do not believe that yet, ladies and gentlemen. If any of you have that formula, I hope you will deliver it to me. Then I'll sleep a little better next night. But with my physics doctrine, which I once learned from Ilomantsi High School with the good guidance of Martti Kaipiainen, the kilowatts are still in mind that the equation does not work. The heavy metal industry, the car industry and many other things that work in Germany certainly do not run on windmills or solar cells, that is something you can count on. If nuclear power is shut down, a country called Germany will be in little trouble. Mr President, when we talk about emissions trading, it is worth talking about these emissions. In Statistics Finland I found an interesting table like this: Carbon dioxide is the key to climate policy, Mr President, you know these better than I do, but let me tell you this, carbon dioxide, which from the head of smoke comes into the air, is the core issue when we talk about climate policy and emissions trading. With natural gas this factor is 55,3, for peat it is 107,6, for wood measured at the end of the pipe it is 109, but since wood is a completely renewable resource, it has been agreed that its value is 0. Thus, by burning with wood in joint combustion, for example, 20 percent of peat and 80 percent of wood, a factor of 55.3 is reached. It goes well under what it is, for example, wood alone. In other words, we have a huge chance of doing this together so that we produce as little as possible, so we can get under this — I'm sorry, I said wrong, we can get under this natural gas coefficient, which is 55.3. In other words, the combined use of wood and peat is much cheaper in terms of climate policy than natural gas from Russia. So you tell these people things, but you don't tell them the facts behind them. It's just that it matters what the smoke pickest thing gets into the air, the carbon dioxide.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u99	Mr President! Unfortunately, energy policy is no longer just a matter for Finland; it is not within Finland's borders. Once you know what Fortum will do after this Uniper deal, in Germany when you drive nuclear power down and use coal power, then it is Fortum's job to handle those renewable energy solutions there. It is also a source of income for the Finnish State, that these renewable energy solutions are also being made in Germany.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u100	President! In short, I would just like to say to Mr Mölsä, the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, that the shoulders of Finland, of course, carry the burden of energy production in Germany too. The Uniper deal must have been a good deal. What is important about this is that we work with European countries, that we make progress. But I think it must be acknowledged by all of us that the replacement of coal that Germany or Poland burns a year by something else by clicking on fingers is an impossible task. And if nuclear power is still being abandoned, then I wonder a little where the responsibility of these countries, which have just been mentioned, lies with how industrial production is being carried out in that country. Even if it takes a lot of energy to produce these battery - powered cars. The construction of that new Tesla requires a huge amount of energy, a huge variety of chemicals, a huge amount of metals, and then, when you look at this product palette in Germany today, Uniper may have an impossible task ahead of him. But of course to the Finnish company, Fortum, I wish the best of luck and success in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u101	Mr President! Indeed, this situation in Germany and Poland, as Mr Mölsä, the chairman of the committee, said, is also a matter for us in Finland. After all, we in Finland have an interesting issue in our own legislation: can we get this coal burning through here with the Prohibition Act? That is, of course, one important factor when we go to Europe to advertise that you do the rest of you. But, as previous speakers have said, it is very important to look at how this electricity generation will be replaced. Windmills and solar panels may not be enough. The likelihood of a long period of nuclear power still exists here, even though Germany has partly abandoned this and France is going to drop it to 50%. So what this directive is referring to again is that we need to look for those innovations, for a model of new forms of energy, and for transport policy in particular, which is perhaps another matter with regard to emissions trading, but also with regard to reducing emissions. We must also ensure that this electricity does not just come from plugs, even though we may also have parties in this House that think about this and say that we should already be in fully renewable energy sources in the 2030s. But that is the 150 terawatt hours needed, which the President has also raised. This is why we have to ask the Greens, even though they do not exist here today — they are opposed to many forms of energy, and the energy they adopt in Finland is actually only two, muscle energy and abrasion electricity — that we should then get used to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u102	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, to which the Committee on Culture must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u103	Mr President! As a teacher of social education in secondary school and high school, I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that today's schoolchildren understand equality as something other than equality between women and men. For them, it also means equality between religions, races, people of different ages, healthy people and people with disabilities. That is why I can fully sign the view of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality that the school plays an important role in equality education. There children and young people will also find a model for teachers as representatives of their own sex. Not all families automatically have a father and mother, which means that a male or female teacher is also a role model in the life of a child and a young person. It would therefore be necessary for the school environment to have both sexes as teachers and other school staff. As a professional educator, I must remind you that the family environment of a child and a young person is, however, the most important forum in which all educational work is carried out. If fathers take part in household work as mothers do, children grow up to believe that there are no jobs for women or men separately. Parental attitudes toward one another and their offspring also guide one’s growing attitudes. The disparaging and even insulting address of the father’s women breeds new chauvinistic boys and correspondingly self - demeaning and self - defeating girls. This, of course, also applies the other way around. Home education is also far-reaching in other life, where it is easy to get along with both sexes in working life and in leisure time. Surely they are also those who dare to marvel out loud and question the ostentatious notions of sex roles. Mr President! There is still a long way to go to the ideal situation of equality in working life. Although, by world standards, a Finnish woman is one of the most equal women in the world, she is behind at least in terms of pay and job security. The major objectives of the next parliamentary term must be to reform family policy in Finland, one of which is to improve employment security. Women of childbearing age are still seen as a threat from the employer’s point of view. Now that Finland is living in a time of historically low birth, the alarm bells should ring loudly: why do young people not dare to start a family, and why do young women postpone having children for mature decades when it becomes more biologically difficult to implement? The achievements of the current government period have been a one-off payment of EUR 2000 to the employer while the employee is on maternity leave. This is a step forward, but there is still a way to compensate for the cost of pregnancy so that it does not burden the mother’s employer, as the child usually has a known father. To resolve this, we must find a common will in our society. The arrangement of leave of care should be given free rein to families to carry it out in the best way possible for them in the family. Finland The city centre trusts that both parents in families want to look after their eyeballs and that parents can decide without coercive measures who stays home and who goes to work. There must be, and must be, a genuine choice so that, for example, the employer does not put pressure on the father not to use the free time available. In our society, the common goal of all parties involved should be to bring together family and working life, and thus genuinely promote gender equality, which would encourage the establishment of families even during the study period, when young people are at an optimal biological age. Unfortunately, at the moment, this opportunity is lost because our young women, especially young women, want to acquire a profession first, have a permanent job, or at least a considerable experience in shredding employment relations, and show that they are committed and career-oriented, so that their employers can continue to pursue their employment contracts. A young man hardly has to think as calculated.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u104	Mr President! We have a report from the Ombudsman for Gender Equality for the Parliament for 2018. The purpose of the Equality Act is to prevent discrimination on grounds of sex and to promote equality between women and men and to improve the position of women, especially in the workplace. It is written that the purpose of the law is also to prevent discrimination based on gender identity and gender expression. It is up to the Ombudsman for Gender Equality to report to Parliament once every four years on the state of equality in the kingdom, and this report is now the first of its kind. The main task of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality is to monitor the state of the kingdom of the equality law — that is, the law on equality between women and men — and, in particular, to monitor compliance with the prohibitions of discrimination. I have not quite been able to read through this fine and high-quality book in its entirety, but I would say that there is a lot of good, valuable information and text here, but on the other hand, there is a section here which is quite unexpectedly much others, let me say, with a little more flimsy arguments. I note that it is quite in line with the texts and brochures of a particular NGO, which, in a certain way, surprised me when I received this first book of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality. But these important, valuable things if I were to move on: Discrimination against pregnancy and family leave: It has been said that discrimination against pregnancy and family leave is a key issue of equality. It continues to exist in all sectors and sectors, and up to half of the working life contacts for the Ombudsman for Equality relate specifically to discrimination against pregnancy and family leave. When surveys have been conducted with trade unions, 46% of trade unions have reported that there will be daily or at least weekly contacts with regard to pregnancy discrimination. And I think and see that today's 20th-century Finland, a Western democracy that values families with respect for children and young people, where there has been much talk of low birth rates in recent weeks and months, we should take a strong hand and delay in this problem. Of course, we need to think about the reasons, and I personally think that, apart from the fact that I believe that the costs of pregnancy, maternity, paternity and parental leave should be fully reimbursed to employers, I would also see that it is very important to have an impact on attitudes and on the state of will. And it is very important to make a difference that we can have a child-friendly and family-friendly kingdom in Finland. A society in which employers too would be happy to announce at the recruitment stage that we are a family-friendly working community that encourages not only maternity but also paternity leave and encourages parental leave. Of course, the importance of fathers is particularly important. I would like employers to raise up and encourage fathers to be more fatherless and family-free in the early stages and in the same course of discussions. I think that that attitude is the most important factor here and, of course, that, if the pay gap is large, many times in families will be decided on the basis of the economic situation which will remain at home, the father or the mother. But I would see that what matters most is the attitude of the working community. In addition, I would encourage everyone to include maternity, paternity and parental leave on the CV. And I would like them to be taken into account in this kingdom, too, so that there is a very valuable episode of the episode that will be used with children at home. I myself have long been asking myself whether paternity, maternity and parental leave could also be an issue that could raise wages. After all, we have a salary shark many times, and you can get more pay if you have good work experience, earned in more companies, but why can't it also be a positive bonus side if you have taken care of children and raised children at home, which could also be pushing into the upper part of the wage shark. In this context, I would also like to raise the question of the learning differences raised in the book. It is extremely worrying that it has been estimated that one in eight boys in basic education will not achieve the literacy skills needed to cope with further studies — one in eight boys. And yet it is known that versatile literacy is the basis for all learning, which is why it cannot be overemphasized. We have girls who do well many times. The situation of the girls is not so worrying at all, but every eighth son. We are in Finland, where comprehensive school is a huge export product in the world, a universally accessible, free uniform compulsory education. But in connection with the kind of doctrine, the kind of skills our children are going to learn, so to speak, from primary school, I would see that attention would be paid to both girls and boys in particular. Each of our children who finish comprehensive school should have a good reading, arithmetic and writing skills, not only moderate. Reading, numeracy and writing — it cannot be overemphasized, and this should be the focus of attention, especially for boys. All in all, school should be a safe place for all children and young people where there is no need to be afraid of going to school, there should be no fear of bullying, harassment or harassment, and this is something that the Ombudsman for Gender Equality has also drawn attention to. Mr President! Perhaps I will take the next floor, and then I will continue with the other themes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u105	Mr President! At the same time, the report by the Ombudsman for Gender Equality is an excellent report on the various issues we have to improve in the gender equality sector and, as has been pointed out in previous speeches, it is not just a question of gender equality but a very multidimensional concept. I would like to raise a few points here, which mainly concern gender equality, but are very important. First of all, the equality of working life, which is still reflected both in pay and in the difficulty of getting a job for women and in career development: It is still quite clear here that we need to make changes to this point with the reform of family leave, so that we can make our working life more equal, thereby enabling women, too, to move forward in their careers and to achieve better reconciliation between working life and family life. I therefore agree with the recommendation of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality that a reform of family leave should be carried out, which will increase quotas for the father and increase the flexibility of those who are free. Of course, there must be flexibility and choice for families as to how it is divided, but there will also be a quota for the father, when virtually nothing changes if no changes are made. The second point I would like to raise is violence: according to a study carried out by the European Agency for Fundamental Rights in 2014, Finland is the second most dangerous country in the EU for women. Violence against women is an important issue of equality, but it is also an important issue of human rights. With regard to violence against women, Finland must secure sufficient resources for the implementation of the Istanbul Agreement, and, for example, low-threshold services and safe houses must be secured so that there is no threshold to seek protection. This is where we are clearly behind the rest of Europe. Finally, as far as sexual harassment is concerned: it leaves culture, and if we are thinking now of sexual crime, what has arisen in Oulu and Helsinki and what has happened in the past, then that change in culture will come from that childhood and the school world so that we must express our attitudes that we do not accept any form of sexual harassment and also, of course, violence. In other words, sexual harassment must also be asked in school health surveys and actively raised there, so that it is clear to children and all people that this is not allowed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u106	Mr President! This report by the Ombudsman for Gender Equality highlights the issue of equality in working life, and this is a key element in both the Equality Act and the activities of the mandated person. Unfortunately, the report shows that discrimination against pregnant women is the most visible problem of discrimination against working life, although we have a clear law against it. Pregnancy discrimination affects women's career plans in many ways, the balanced exploitation of family leave and the ideas of young adults about starting a family. Unfortunately, this problem affects young women in the early stages of their working lives, who, in addition, are often still in temporary employment. And I must say that the public sector is not a good example of pregnancy discrimination. In my view, the report clearly shows that legislation on pregnancy discrimination needs to be further developed. Another important area that emerges from the report on working life is the issue of equality in relation to the development of pay transparency and, of course, the promotion of wage equality. I would therefore like to believe that the tripartite working group just appointed by Minister Saariko to ensure wage transparency will produce concrete proposals that will enable unjustified gender pay differentials to be addressed. At least it is time to move forward on this issue too. Strengthening the gender perspective has long been the goal of equality policy in Finland, and although some progress has been made, one can say that the final achievement of this objective is still, unfortunately, a long way off. I therefore support the opinion of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality that, for example, in the future the Government Programme would define clear and comprehensive equality objectives at national level, and that from that point of view the various administrative sectors could lead their own equality objectives — and also, of course, implement them into practice. For example, this could increase the ambition of equality policy, and we certainly have reason to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u107	Mr President! When it comes to gender issues, it is often asked what is the worst problem of equality. And it is impossible to answer because it is often a question of big structural issues that are discriminatory and they are reflected differently in different sectors. We have just talked about sexual offences, for example, which may be one of the most repulsive forms of power in society, but the report by the Ombudsman for Gender Equality makes good reference to the fact that the phenomenon is by no means new. The European Agency for Fundamental Rights published a study according to which Finland is the second most dangerous country in the EU for women: 47% of Finnish women reported having experienced physical or sexual violence after 15 years of age. This study was published in 2012. It does not really have much to do with the things we have been talking about today, for example during Question Time, but this phenomenon is somehow in Finnish structures. We need to be able to address the different aspects of it and the situations arising from different motives with different instruments, because the solutions are different for different offenders, but the problem is common. And then again, if you think of the violence that men face, if women most often encounter violence at home and at the hands of their loved ones, then men are more often subjected to violence by strangers. And then we need to find different solutions to what we do to deal with the violence that men experience. That is not what drugs are like when it comes to violence experienced by women, although they also cross — I do not mean that men only experience outside the home and women only at home, of course this is not the case. But Finland has ratified the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, the so-called Istanbul Convention, and we have tried to implement it. In fact, we have an implementation plan and many actions have been taken. But I might ask: Have we done enough to put the spirit of that agreement into practice? And that is precisely the kind of services that you will receive in advance and which will be able to prevent worsening situations, the kind of services the victim will receive, whether you will have to wait in the primary and shelter or whether you will be able to get there when there is a need for help — yes, you will have to wait in line, and that is not how it can be. The Ombudsman for Gender Equality also intervenes in hate speech. And that is perhaps in a certain way a new issue which we have only begun to discuss in recent years. Yesterday I was at a meeting of the Roma Advisory Council, where a police academy researcher spoke about hate speech, and I think that he actually summed up in a fairly simple but appropriate way why hate speech and why it as a crime is dangerous, which is worth taking seriously. His crystallization was that there is an individual who is the victim, the victim of that direct act, but there is also the whole community to which that hatred is directed. And that too should be remembered in this topical debate that we are having, for example, in the case of sexual offences. Well, gender equality in working life is a big issue in the report because it is the old oats in the so-called Equality Act, because the Equality Act has expanded a little bit more to this aspect of education than in the past, and it is also about structural issues and individual issues. If we think about economic equality and equal pay, and if we only address the issue of equal pay, then we will not be able to resolve the issue of equal pay because it is a question of major structural issues in society that affect the way in which pay is made. And that is why we need reforms that bring both stronger instruments to reduce the pay gap but also those which address these major structural issues in this society. On the issue of structural issues, the Ombudsman for Gender Equality raises the issue of the reform of the family leave system, which I believe is an extremely urgent matter. It has an employment dimension and has a gender dimension. But then, if you look at equal pay and that at work like at the core of equality, then you should think about the fact that different compensation provisions could also be extended to discrimination that happens when the recruitment process prior to the selection decision goes wrong. These are the new things that have not been discussed so much. Instead, more has been said about how to increase wage equality by increasing information, but there has actually been a lot too little action if you could say so. In other words, it is often a question of combining, for example, the human resources equality plan and the equality plan as a means of achieving better closure, but it is also a question of how, when wage surveys are carried out, the information that can be used to compare wages, both in the individual workplace and across industry boundaries. And in a single job, if we have the encryption regulations we currently have, we will not actually be able to reach the wage equality. I am not going to go through the proposals that the Commissioner for Gender Equality is putting forward, but they are very much to be welcomed because they bring more tools to the workplace to address these issues. We are running out of time, and all I have to say about the equality of educational institutions is that I think this too, if we go back to this public debate some time ago. Sysmä's school and the principal's speeches describe how important it would be to make a plan for equality and equality in schools, because it enables the whole work community to commit to the goals that they want to promote in equality work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u108	Mr President! The main task of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality is to monitor equality, in particular respect for non-discrimination. In addition, the aim is to promote the purpose of the Equality Act and to provide information on equality legislation. It is a pity that this report will come to Parliament at the end of this period, but, on the other hand, with a positive view, one can hope that in the next government negotiations the matter will be well remembered. After all, there is no mention of equality in the current Government Programme, and that is why the issue has not been raised very clearly here in Parliament either. In the legislative proposals, the assessment of the impact on equality cannot be praised either in terms of quantity or quality. The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities has constantly had to comment on this in its opinions and reports. I am sure that progress has been made over the years, but there is much to improve. If it were mentioned in the Government Programme, I believe it would be better involved here in the legislative work. The realisation of equality requires policy coherence, i.e. consideration in all decision-making. The realisation of equality requires will and action, that is, both will and action are needed here in Parliament. I think that Mr Filatov has just made a good point about the need for structural changes. But now, Mr President, a few words on this report, mainly on its part in working life and from the point of view of working life, on the basis of a rather quick reading. I'd like to raise a few points. The other day, we discussed the report of the Ombudsman for Children, and in this context, I also stressed the importance of reconciling work and family from the point of view of children's well-being. The Ombudsman for Gender Equality in his own report also talks about children in the field of equality in working life. He calls for a reform of family leave to be carried out to increase quotas for fathers and to increase flexibility in the use of freephones. The Equal Opportunities Ombudsman also emphasises the restoration of subjective day care rights for all children. I hope these things will happen next season. A worrying issue from the point of view of equality in working life is the prevalence of pregnancy and family leave discrimination. In practice, this discrimination is reflected, among other things, in limiting the duration of fixed-term employment relationships due to pregnancy and family leave, as difficulties in returning to work after family leave and as inappropriate questions in a job interview. On the other hand, atypical employment relationships — such as part-time work, fixed-term employment relationships, zero-hour contracts and so on — expose women to discrimination of this kind, and women are over-represented in these atypical employment relationships as well. The earmarked participation of fathers in family leave would help to reduce discrimination of this kind, but there should also be a change in employers' attitudes. In fact, there is still room for improvement in the attitudes of society as a whole. The report by the Ombudsman for Gender Equality made clear recommendations to me on improving the equality of educational institutions. Educational institutions play an important role in the dismantling of gender roles and stereotypes, but I share the view that these opportunities have not yet been sufficiently exploited by the Ombudsman for Gender Equality. One of the key problems in our country is the segregation of working life, and educational institutions should therefore make a greater effort to influence their own efforts to reduce this segregation. Of course, this work has to start already in comprehensive school, because the learning gap between girls and boys is exceptionally large in Finland and even is growing. This also affects career selection and further studies. The differences in learning and their causes must continue to be studied and analysed so that we can make progress on equality. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u109	Mr President, ärade talman! Many good things have been said here, very good things have been said, thank you for them, and I do not actually want to repeat these things many times. This report by the Ombudsman for Gender Equality is an incredibly happy piece of news. It's here for the first time. And I think we have also shown that its predecessor, or similar, the report of the Ombudsman for Equality, the rapporteur on human trafficking, has shown that Parliament is able to deal in this way with these issues of discrimination and issues of equality and equality, so that we can promote the political decision-making that requires long-term work. I am really glad that this exists. I believe that the women's network and women's organisations have done a great deal of work when they clearly stated that we want to have our own special Commissioner for Gender Equality, which specifically deals with gender equality, that they cannot be combined. No area of discrimination is small, but it is important that we can also look at all discrimination between women and the sexes, especially equality, because it goes through all the issues and social groups. I myself am the chairman of the Confederation of Women's Organisations, which is therefore a non-governmental organisation of 58 organisations with 400,000 members. Together with Mr Nykis and Mr TANE, we have set goals for the next government negotiations over political boundaries, across organizational boundaries. And they are very much compatible with the recommendations and issues of this Ombudsman for Gender Equality. Of course, the sad thing about equality policy is that, although much has been done, there is still a surprising amount to be done. I myself have started politics in the '90s, and the same questions, the same problems are still ahead. In that sense, I may no longer be so confident that they will happen on their own, as Mr Mattila thought, for example, that freedom of choice would in a way determine, for example, the smoother use of care responsibilities. At the moment, this report tells us that men spend less than 10% of these allowances, the allowances for family leave, and it does say — although it is possible to choose quite well, on an equal footing today — that the situation is not desirable. I don't think men think it's desirable either. The work of women's organisations to promote equality has been enormous throughout Finland's independence and also during the previous period. In that sense, I still think that special work for women is very, very important to do. In my opinion, the previous Question Time showed how weak the knowledge is about Finland's biggest human rights problem, violence against women, for example. As if it had happened just now, and as if it were somehow targeting a particular group. We have received many, many comments on the fact that we have not sufficiently addressed this issue, and we are also very high in European comparisons in these figures of violence. Of course, violence in a relationship is of a very special kind in that it is also, in some ways, very much such a question of freedom and power. It is not an isolated case, it is usually related to long-term violence and, in that sense, it requires quite different countermeasures — as Mr Filatov said — than perhaps some other violent situation that is more specific to the situation and perhaps random. We have already talked about these family leave, but I also think that there is poverty and economic inequality in wages. Poverty and responsibility for care and care and inequality in pay are also, in my opinion, linked. The fact that women bear so much of this care responsibility both at a younger age and certainly at a later age also means that their pay development or perhaps their career development, their choices during their career will be such that they will not be able to build such a pension as if they had had a better chance of sharing those care responsibilities. We have achieved a great deal, and we have international agreements that oblige us. I think that, for example, in the fight against violence, in the fight against trafficking in human beings, and so on, in some way, we must maintain this cross-party cooperation between women's organisations. This is still necessary because we do not have the kind of say that we deserve in our parties or in Parliament. We have a problem in the sense that, for example, we have not achieved much more than this 40% in representativeness — no progress has been made in 30 years, and I am not advocating any mathematical, absolute solution here, but it would be good if it were to vary to some extent that it did not seem so discriminatory. Similarly, I think that we should consider how the committees are to be more even in some way so that we are not, in a way, so stereotypically divided into committees of men and women, because they also affect what matters become more important and which arise on top of the political agenda. That is why I hope that this cooperation between the women's network and the women's organisations, which I hope will also result in cooperation between the sexes. I am really, really happy that a new equality association has been created, called Men's Association. Who has heard this appeal from the IMF to the men of Christine Lagarde: it is also time for men to act for equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u110	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The Equality Act explicitly prohibits discrimination on grounds of sex. In addition, the law aims to improve equality in working life, in particular between women and men. This is a very important objective, because the inequality experienced in working life is far from reaching the last stages of retirement age. At the moment, there is much catching up to be done on equality in working life. As the Ombudsman for Gender Equality points out in his report, the economic differences between women and men are clear: the pay gap for men is 16% and the pension gap is even higher, 21%. The pay gap needs to be narrowed more quickly and better by means, as it takes 50 years to eliminate the pay gap at the current pace, according to the Ombudsman for Gender Equality. I often meet low-income pensioners, women who tell me that pension income is in no way enough to cover even the most necessary expenditure, namely housing, food, medicines and health care, because the pension is so low and the expenditure increases. In particular, women living alone who hold on to a small pension are in a very difficult financial crisis. Women get a lower pension than men. Depending on the method of measuring income, the difference between pensions for men is between EUR 2000 and EUR 6500 per year. In other words, women receive about a quarter less earnings-related pension than men. The difference in earnings-related pension is the result of lower earnings for women during their working lives and a shorter pension accumulation period. According to a survey by the Finnish Centre for Pensions, women’s careers are shrinking, especially at the time of starting a family, between the ages of 30 and 40. After this, the men’s head start will remain until retirement. Mr President! The Ombudsman for Gender Equality also highlights, for every reason, the low number of family leave taken by men. True: men still have a sad little family-free attitude, less than 10%. This despite the fact that we are well aware that a more even family leave would benefit women, children and men themselves. In the case of women, parenthood, parental leave and home care allowance periods are reflected in a reduction in working life. When mothers stay home for long periods of time to care for children, fathers continue to work. Often, men also progress to better paid assignments. There is a trend in which men's wage income continues to rise and their careers become long. The difference is different for women, and the pay gap between the years of starting a family does not seem to be evening out later. Years pass and the difference in earned income that has come during this period will be realised as women's lower earnings-related pensions. Mr President! Pension income plays an important role in reducing pension poverty. The key to economic and social well-being as a pensioner is a healthy career and adequate wage, a well-compatible working and family life and a more even distribution of family leave. Particular attention must be paid to good employment relationships and it must be ensured that none of today's working-age people are deprived of pension provision and are in retirement poverty. Gender equality in studies, work and economics is a social goal that is worth pursuing. It is also required by the Equality Act, which requires equal conditions for women and men in all areas of life. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, you have ensured that your municipality of residence has signed the European Charter for Equality between Local and Regional Authorities. Its aim is to promote gender equality in municipal and regional government, strengthening the commitment to promoting gender equality in broad local policy-making, operational and economic governance, the provision of services, the role of employers and the prevention of gender-based violence. There are currently 25 municipalities or provinces that have signed the Charter in Finland. I don't think so much. Regrettably, there are no targets and measures relating to gender equality in the Government Programme of this Sipilä government, and this has been demonstrated. I hope that the direction will change very soon in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u111	Madam President! Many very good speeches have been made here — truly equal opportunities for both boys and girls to study in the sector they want, equal opportunities for both women and men to work and move forward in the career, as well as for both, and of course to get equal merit. We really still have work to do to reconcile family and study, family and work, and I think that this requires not only the right attitude but also the will mode, and I believe that this is increasingly possible. After all, here in Parliament we have a working group on the reform of parliamentary work, which is led by President Risikko, and this reconciliation between work and family is also a central theme there. But then I would like to return a little bit to the theme of school environment. We children, students have the right to a safe learning environment, and the student and the student must be protected from violence, bullying and harassment. What was alarming here was that in primary education 12 per cent of boys in the 8th and 9th grade and 30 per cent of girls and then 8 per cent of boys in upper secondary schools and vocational institutions and 30 per cent of girls had experienced sexual harassment. Much of this is happening outside of school, but some is happening in school. And as in this Chamber we have been talking a lot lately and today, terrible things have happened outside of school. I must say that we have not been able to protect our children and young people from what has happened, and I am truly sorry about these events, and compassion is with parents and loved ones in these matters too. But what was still alarming in this article by the Ombudsman for Gender Equality was that 11% of the eighth and ninth graders in comprehensive school would have needed help from the school’s adults in such a situation but had not received it. I think that this is a particularly worrying situation: 11% would have needed help from an adult in school but had not received it. In addition to knowledge, there must also be a willingness and courage to address the situations and problems that have arisen, as the Ombudsman for Gender Equality states. I would think that perhaps there is too little talk of learning and learning emotional and interactive skills in schools. I would like to see much more emotional and interactive skills, both in the interaction between children, parents, students, young people and in the interaction between children and young people and adults, and I would like to see more attention being paid to these at school. But then, as I said earlier, this report by the Ombudsman for Gender Equality contains a lot of good and high-quality texts and many good and high-quality songs, but then I was amazed when I looked at this, this paragraph 6 under the heading Gender Diversity. And when I looked at this, it was inevitable that this was largely the text of Seta’s brochures. When you read this through, this is much less than the other sections, and what are the arguments for what? It will be very strongly thought that Seta, one of our NGOs, has brought a very strong text here and, as it were, has taken the right to define and reshape different concepts. I am surprised that the Equality Ombudsman has included them in this way in his first book. This is based on the fact that the ETENE, such as the Ethical Advisory Board of Social and Health Care, which consists of very different professionals in various fields, has taken as it were to be authorized to define already the sex in a way that is quite different from our law, as if the sex were this kind of a continuum of many things. And here it is pointed out that in paragraph 6 there are many contradictions with our current law and also with the current general concepts and precisely those who seek to increase health and well-being in this long term. At this point I would like to remind you that Seta is a non-governmental organisation for gender equality, which includes some of the sexual minorities, but far from all sexual minorities are not part of it and do not support Seta's policies, and that is something to remember. And with regard to these sexual and sexual matters, it is good to remember that we have three important concepts in the law that should not be confused with each other, and unfortunately there is a lot of confusion today. We have ‘gender’,and ‘gender identity’and ‘gender expression’and,ontheday of this day in society,these issues are discussed, regrettably often referred to as ‘gender’,when we should talk about ‘gender identity’ or ‘gender expression’ or conflict Then, as it were, a political position has been taken on the subject of the transformation of the transfiguration, and I must say, as I have said before, that since the 1980s I have also been dealing with gender minorities, and I have not met with a single trans-process that would support this amendment to the trans-law, which in many ways is being pursued. In other words, we prefer to be of an adult age before major changes are made, including a careful review of all matters, an assessment of the situation, giving the young person time to ask questions, pains and find its own identity. In that sense, I would think that when our children and young people have many times today very challenging living conditions both in families and in school and there is a lot of breakage and there are also many conflicts — some young people also conflict between their own identity, sexual identity, and the body — we try to be safe adults, including health professionals, teachers, close to school, and give our children and young people time to grow and develop in peace. Ensure a safe, peaceful environment for growth and development and give our children and young people enough time to find their own identity and that balance also between identity, their own knowledge and the body. In that sense it must be said that although this report of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality contained a lot of good and good quality text, this paragraph 6, as I said, unfortunately contains a lot of contradictions with our current law. But of course it's an equality councilman like this kind of a line or political wish. It is good to carefully examine and evaluate and do all of these things, precisely so that our children and young people, and also adults, are taken into account with their own needs and decisions that promote health and well-being and, in particular, in a long-term and sustainable way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u112	Mr President! In fact, Mr Tanus has just made an excellent point about the second flaw that I would have drawn attention to in this report, namely this very clear ideology of these transgender issues, which is reflected in this report, and the very strange importance of these issues. Although the Ombudsman for Gender Equality does not appear to be a purely political actor, unlike, for example, the Ombudsman for Children, there is a clear political emphasis here, and I do not think that this should be put forward in these official reports. This second instance, which I would like to highlight, at least at this stage of the debate, as the only one, and therefore presumably the best man in the debate, is that this report has very thinly taken into account the men's point of view on these issues. However, I believe that men are a minority gender in Finland, so that perspective should be taken into account. In fact, page 16 of the report says directly: ‘This report does not contain a separate section on gender equality problems experienced by men and boys. “ However, on the same page it will be stated later :‘Almost a How is it possible that there is no man's own section here? Has the Ombudsman for Gender Equality done a bad job on purpose or by accident? Can such a report be presented to be returned to the preparatory work so that it would be acceptable for us to discuss in Parliament? Men's exclusion is more common, unemployment is more common, boys' learning outcomes are worse, nausea accumulates, men's life expectancy is much lower than women. When we talk about the woman’s euro, should we talk about the man’s hour, which is much shorter than the woman’s hour? What does this account give to men in contact with these problems? There is no provision in this report for measures to improve the position of men, only to put pressure on family leave, even if it is seen differently in families. And what report takes into account the domestic violence experienced by men?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u113	Mr President! It is worth noting that the Equal Opportunities Ombudsman does not cover all the issues of inequality in society, but that his field of activity is limited, and in a certain way it also guides what is in this report. But I would like to defend the equality representative in the view that he, for example, raised these particular problems in the committee, even those who may not have come up in the debate and who are not directly involved in this subject, which is his responsibility. But when these stories were accused of being political, it is always political to move society forward. There's always some sort of political policy behind it. It is equality policy, it is child policy, it is something, and it is not necessarily the same as party politics. I believe that all of our delegates — I do not even know the background of all the delegates, but I suppose — have a strong social background because they have gone on such a mission, and they are able to keep it separate when they act as delegates and work for them, or when they work in other societies. I would like to point out from here, for example, that once the equality plans of schools and educational institutions have become a new element of the law, this is the specific issue of equality between men and boys. At that point, the Ombudsman specifically recommends that attention be paid to reducing the gender learning gap. This is one good tool for equality planning, because it can look for the means by which inequality is caused by the weaker learning outcomes of boys. Is it a question of culture that it does not favour or encourage boys to attend school, is it a question of a boy culture that does not value education, for example, in the same way as a girl's culture, or is it a question of different assessments of the skills of boys and girls and there is a problem with the need for sex glasses in order to be able to view it as more equal? I hope that in the future we in Parliament will pay attention to how these issues are monitored and that there are few priorities in the various reports and not always the same where the sector is very wide. To this rhythm of stories and what is in them. Each delegate has to choose from a wide range of things that are raised in the current account. Although these reports in Parliament are for the first time, the gender equality Ombudsman has made his own report before — it is not a new phenomenon — but the fact that we deal with it on this scale is a new phenomenon, and that is a good thing. Personally, I would like us to have a first-in-Office there, so that we can get into a rhythm in the future that these reports will come at the beginning of the parliamentary term as soon as possible. It may not work in one year, but it will. Then Parliament would have time to make its own recommendations and also to monitor whether something happened to them. This rhythm is good in relation to government negotiations, but from the point of view of Parliament's decision-making power and, as it were, the power to push things forward, it would be good for these reports to come as early as possible and not when we have the last moment here with all the other legal jams. In fact, the Ombudsman for Gender Equality acknowledged this idea and said that he was at least trying to take it forward, but I would like it to be our report testimonial for the next Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u116	Mr President! To this last point: I believe that this can be seen from many points of view. When I was a Non-Discrimination Ombudsman, I actually felt that it was a real success at the end of the period, when there was a desire in some way to realise that it may not have been possible to think about things so comprehensively when these reforms are thematic and not necessarily sectoral. In that sense, perhaps, at least in the past, on the basis of their reports and parliamentary deliberations, there has been an enormous amount of progress, for example, in the fight against trafficking in human beings, which would not have happened without the same gathering of that common power and all the measures being taken. This is a little point of view. I think that either way we can do it, but it is important that Parliament should deal with it, and that is why it is good that it is here. I also welcome the fact that we have such special representatives who are courageous and take a stand. It is their duty to advance non-discrimination. It also means proposing reforms and stimulating debate, and in that sense I would hope that we will not try to put on the word'sordino' for them, but on the contrary — but we do not have enough debate on these issues. Then it is up to us to make legislation and prepare it with the kind of consensus that we have. Then, from this gender equality — women or men — I think he is well aware of the fact that this is not a zero-sum game. In fact, every act of equality that promotes the status of women is also serving men. It is not a more balanced distribution of care against anyone, but we know that it will greatly improve the lives of men. That these aren't the opposite. We should get rid of it. Clearly, it has also been mentioned here that, for example, violence is very different and poverty exists for various reasons, but these problems for women are usually caused by their gender regardless of the situation in their lives, while many — not all — male issues are more life situations than just those caused by the masculinity, and it is also linked to this division of power that issues that are special to women have not always been at the top of the political agenda. But I am not underestimating: Men's problems are, of course, equally important. I don't think any woman's ever wanted to belittle you. In general, women politicians have also promoted social reforms that have helped men, and social issues in general have been on the political agenda of women.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u117	Madam President! Very good speeches have been made here. Mr Mäkelä raised the issue of the male perspective and Mr Biaudet quite rightly said that many times when equality is promoted, it is for the benefit of both men and women. But one thing that stands up here and is forced to pack up, and of which Mr Mäkelä mentioned, is domestic violence experienced by men. It may still be something that too often remains hidden there, and men still seem to have a big threshold to go on telling about it, and unfortunately it still remains to be taken very seriously. That it involves a wide range of feelings and challenges, and of course any form of violence is a symptom of something and must be tackled, but in a certain way there are special features of this when it is domestic violence, violence against people in close relationships. I think that Mr Filatov has made a good point about this time. After all, we recently had the report of the Ombudsman for Children on the table and now this report of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality, both for the first time here in Parliament, and every four years both are to be imported. I myself wonder whether it would not be better, at least somewhat earlier, to import these things than right here at the end. That if not in the early part of the year — there is a lot of programming and stuff when you get the Parliament moving — but still halfway through that there is still a chance to do something. The second point I would like to make here is the timing of this debate, in the sense that the wish has come, and I would like to make it clear to the President that these discussions, both of the Ombudsman for Children and of the Ombudsman for Equal Opportunities, could take place more during the day, earlier, that they could have an even better date, and that there would also be some sort of round of group talks, for example, where they would necessarily come from. I think this kind of processing change would help that in every group these would be used more carefully and better passed through and evaluated things where there are still shortcomings and where there might still be some changes to be made. This is the kind of wish I would make. In some discussions, too, this also came to the attention of other Members of Parliament that it might be better earlier in the day, if possible, and perhaps also these group speeches, so we would have more strength to deal with them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u118	Mr President! To the extent that Mrs Filatov was quite right just now. It should be precisely so that, when dealing with these issues, the personal opinions and party backgrounds of these delegates are not visible. However, it is now the case that, for example, the Ombudsman for Children is publicly nominated by the Social Democrats as a parliamentary candidate and many of his policies reflect his party political background. Now I do not know what the party background of this Commissioner for Gender Equality, Marienvaara, is, but it seems very red-green on the basis of this report.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u122	Mr President! However, I strongly disagree with this analysis, which was finally made by the predecessor of the report on what, according to which report, will be banned, because there are no such proposals in this report. As far as this emphasis is concerned, there are certainly a wide range of ways in which we can get the analyses and recommendations that the delegates are doing better and get the whole Parliament to know. But I think it is essential that the delegates do their own work independently.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u125	President! I will not prolong further, but I would also like to prove that our special representative system is actually very famous. It is precisely this system that has been asked in many countries when we have independent delegates who report to Parliament and make recommendations and who have the right to information. It is really, really appreciated elsewhere and is a great system, which is to protect it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u126	Mr President! Let me briefly refer to what I have just said about these criminalisations and criminal law. On page 107, in the report in point 7.4, the recommendations read as follows: ‘Legislation should therefore be developed in such a way as to set out,for example, the crimes of hatred and hatred against women. For example, it will be examined whether gender, gender identity and gender expression should be recorded in the characterisation of the offence of incitement against the people’s group.’ In particular, this last sentence, namely ‘gender identity and gender expression’,means that the Finnish language has been translated into just what is mentioned:in which the gender is not
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-17-ps-143.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
