ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 39/2018 vp. The debate will begin with a general debate with a rapid response, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. Furthermore, in the order in which I am considering it, I agree with the response. Statement by Mr Kalli, Chairman of the Committee on Finance, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u2	Mr President! The amending budget, which is the basis of the debate, is short but rather timely and responds to the issues that have been raised recently. Firstly, however, it is proposed to reduce tax estimates by EUR 150 million. The value added tax forecast is reduced by EUR 196 million, corporate tax by EUR 110 million. However, the increase in taxes on earnings and capital income will be increased by EUR 156 million. The Government proposes EUR 82.6 million in additional contributions, and these additional contributions will be used to strengthen the guidance and supervision of services for the elderly and disabled, in total... [Murder ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u5	Mr President! We're going to discuss the government's last additional budget without the government. This is a new situation. The Sipilä government has now brought Finland to a halt. Finland is standing still for a whole month, but the world is not waiting for us.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u12	Do you want to have a debate? Let's open the debate. Congressman Ala-Nissila.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u13	Mr President! There are many ways to measure the functioning of the government. Last season, the government did not resign, but voted against its own proposals. I didn't wear it very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u16	Those representatives who want to participate in this debut can press the V button and stand up. — Next floor, Mr Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u17	Madam President! It's a little sudden. With regard to this additional budget, I would like to say in particular that when there were serious problems in the care of the elderly and also in the day care of the children, in the care of the elderly, there were apparently direct criminal negligence, the government took this issue very quickly and allocated more resources to oversee care for the elderly, that is, care for the elderly. It was the first solution that could be made, and its government did. It is quite clear that this whole package of services for the elderly now requires further examination, and for that purpose the government has set up an expert working group. When the work of the working group is completed, it is time to look at the various ways in which good care can be ensured for the elderly, including home care and informal care.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u18	Mr President! Perhaps then I am looking through the various spectacles of that ministerial committee as Mr Ala-Nissilä is looking at it, namely that I do not see a single minister there and I do not see a government that is prepared to shoulder its responsibilities until the end. And just as Mr Harakka quite rightly said, this was where the work was left unfinished and the gloves were put on the table. But, President-in-Office, on this very point: now that we do not have a government, well-knownly, Parliament is making decisions, and I now appeal to this Parliament to really keep a tight line that we do not go to the VAR fund, the Housing Fund, to empty the state budget as a general ceiling. We need affordable homes for people, we need money to repair suburban homes, we need money for home repairs and elevator construction. And Parliament has unanimously required that the money from the Housing Fund be used as the prerequisites for affordable housing for people, and now Parliament has the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u19	President! That is a timely matter, that is the situation in Britain. There, Prime Minister Cameron wanted to hold on to power with his teeth and not resign, took it to a referendum. Now the country's affairs are completely confused and the parties are fragmented and there is no majority behind any decision. [EeroHeinäluoto]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u20	Mr President! To Mr Ala-Nissila, I can say with great joy that we have our own options. You read our protests, and you'll find them. [OlaviAla-Nissilän intermediate call] Above all, Mr Ala-Nissila, you too have committed yourself in Parliament to ensuring that these funds from the State Housing Fund should not be used in any other way than to promote affordable housing. I hope that you will continue to commit to this option of the SDP and to this unanimous approach of the whole Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u21	Madam President! The Prime Minister made his decision and bears responsibility for it. The Prime Minister can make this decision, which then also meant the separation of the entire government. When you listen to Mr Harakka, if there is no political government — as I can see with my glasses that no one is sitting there.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u24	Madam President! Mr Ala-Nissila referred to the chaotic endings of the last parliamentary term and said that things were better now. Well, this is not really how it is going to be this time when we are not allowed to vote on these issues in this Chamber, but we are already withdrawing them at that committee stage. Last week the government parties withdrew the improvement of the compensation reserve system intended to facilitate the agricultural crisis. It was withdrawn, the case was suspended. There were legal problems, as we all know. Today the vignette was taken away, the hearing was suspended in the tax section — the vignette, which, among other things, was praised by the chairman of the central parliamentary group, Mr Kaikkonen, for the idea of making foreign trucks pay for, would it be a nice idea? Well, that nice idea has been decided today to suspend by government groups already in the tax section, which means that the government parties will not be able to vote these things down here, at least then in the big room.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u26	Mr President! As far as I am concerned, it is very important that we promote housing production and affordable housing and, as we all know, it is best promoted by increasing housing construction, so indirectly it can be thought that this decision to capitalise companies that enable additional housing to be built along high-speed rail lines is also doing so. According to Recommendation No 9 of the expert report commissioned by the Audit Committee, the ARA assets must be directed towards the development of urban structure and housing infrastructure. This is precisely what we are doing here, and I really think it would be a pity that, just because the government has resigned, the planning of these high-speed rail lines would not be allowed to start and develop. I do not think that this is in any way dependent on whether we have a government or not, and I would also urge others there on the other side to consider whether we should now support this good proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u27	Mr President! I would say to Mr Multala that yes, housing must be built, that is quite clear in order to reduce housing expenditure, but the fact that the State Housing Fund money is used for purposes other than affordable housing is a truly strange and reprehensible solution. The transfer of 73 million is a genuinely strange solution for the previous government, especially since Parliament has a record that this money should not be spent on anything else. Now that there is no government, Parliament can correct this decision. I find it strange that the previous government parties, or the Sipilä government parties, are now somehow fleeing behind this. How do you respond to people and citizens who need affordable housing? I think this is the conversation that should take place.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u28	Honorable Speaker! So now that we do not have a political government, is there not a situation in which all the parliamentary parties should be represented in the government? There should be legal clarity, that is what I am thinking about. However, in general terms, from the economic situation: Central government finances have improved, similar to local government finances, but household indebtedness has continued to increase in recent times. Housing costs, electricity prices, the price of mobility — these are all growing costs. The price of new dwellings per square metre should be about a ton off. It would be possible to do so by reducing the regulatory burden. We are facing a lot of major problems at EU level. The economic growth of Italy and Germany, there is bad news, may also lead to Finland's recession. As far as this additional budget is concerned, the new government should make a programme of measures in the area of care for the elderly in order to take account of these repeated omissions in competitive tendering. It cannot be that the quality points are met and these companies win the competitions. Sanctions should also be imposed on those responsible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u29	Mr President! After all, the Sipilä government's balance will be excellent for this period. Economic and employment figures are quite different [EeroHeinäluoto] As far as the additional budget is concerned, it is, of course, a good thing that attention is paid to this monitoring of care for the elderly. The government acted quickly, as it should be.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u31	Mr President! After all, the Parliamentary Audit Committee went through these expert proposals and there were so many of them. The committee decided unanimously that we need a housing fund specifically for housing construction and support for affordable housing. So the committee deliberately concluded that the housing fund was not to be emptied, and Parliament unanimously decided here that the housing fund should continue to operate and that its money should be used specifically for housing construction. The fact that someone once said something else does not mean that once Parliament has made a decision, that old idea would be valid. We have all agreed here that a housing fund is needed and its money is being used to enable affordable housing production. Now the government is different from this. If this is accepted by Parliament, I will remain and ask what the decisions of this Chamber will be if something else is done a few weeks after they have been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u33	Madam President! This hall has also decided on climate objectives and how we commit ourselves to them. According to the IPCC report last autumn, there is very little time, much less than many people imagined, and we now need extraordinarily fast action. This railway project is one such project and I see that it is desirable for both climate policy and environmental objectives, but it is also desirable for housing policy and one that needs to be taken forward. It is an interesting point of view that if this were not taken forward now, how would it be possible, for example, for Pirkanmaa, for the Hervantians of Tampere to travel this way to Helsinki? The strong will of the Pirkanmaa MPs is to take a train to Helsinki in an hour and ease the daily lives of ordinary people, and to ease the housing pressure in Helsinki. This is where house prices explode. One way is to reduce the standard, and it can take up to EUR 1000, but another is to create a single area of employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u34	Mr President! Here the representatives of the government parties — or former government parties — speak as if the shovel were already in the country and these tracks were being built hard. After all, the question is what would these project companies be like now that there are only shells and no substance to it. We must now make the political, decisive decision on how this funding is to be made, and that cannot be done now, thanks to the sudden resignation of Sipilä. Of course, it is extraordinary to hear that the representative Multala believes that it does not matter that there is no political government. So I'm gonna stay here and ask you why Juha? The Sipilä was then so careful that Minister Berner would go all the way to the end, because without him there would be no progress on these issues. Well, now it obviously doesn't matter. And I'm surprised it doesn't work this way in business that when the CEO resigns, he'll hang around the old job and try to get back to work at the same firm.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u35	Madam President! I'm sure this SDP rhetoric is fun to listen to. When you tried to overthrow the Sipilä government throughout this parliamentary term, now that the government itself resigned under the leadership of the Prime Minister, the feeling became that it was as if it was wrong to resign.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u40	Mr President! However, I would ask the representatives to stick to the truth. The reason why this reform of the social economy did not succeed during this parliamentary term is because it was repeatedly unconstitutional. If, for example, the Constitutional Committee had accepted the motion, the President would have had to stop the reform in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u43	Mr President! Indeed, as Mr Elo said, the solution of Prime Minister Sipilä was at stake. Indeed, Mr Harakka said that it is now, as it is, that the government's ability to act has been halted, but also that Finland would have stopped. In truth, it must be remembered that it was quite a four- limb brake, and it has been admitted there on the opposition's side, that on purpose there was also that braking on that issue, and that car will stop when the brakes are fully applied.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u46	Let us discuss the amending budget — if we try to stick to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u47	Mr President! Mr Ala-Nissilä there criticised the opposition for putting an intermediate question on the care of the elderly. It seems that the catastrophic state of care for the elderly in the city centre is similar to that of the Minister of Finance Orpo, the marginal issue. As a result of this intermediate issue, the issue was raised strongly, and the government, at its last mets, gave an additional budget that would at least show a slight improvement in this respect. It is important, and it was due to the question of the interim. Mr President! The question now has to be put to the centre when this agricultural equalisation reserve and the vignette now fell over there and you praised them enormously in this debate on referrals. How do you react now when there is no political government when the Prime Minister left for the pine guard?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u48	Mr President! Mr Ala-Nissila said that the government resigned but would continue its work, and that everyone could now present their own options. So the difference between the government and the government means that that political government work changed in practice to election work, and in that sense everyone can now present their own options. There are many things in this additional budget that are really to be supported: strengthening the control of services for the elderly and disabled, as well as the control of early childhood education, as well as the fight against sexual crimes. But at the same time, I would remind you that this government itself has weakened the staffing dimension of early childhood education, for example, from the 1/7 ratio to the 1/8 ratio.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u49	Mr President! It seems that when the elections are approaching, the representative will: The fabric peninsula is starting to twist things around here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u50	Mr President! Of course, this is an extraordinary situation in which we are dealing with the government's additional budget in a situation where the government no longer exists. Mr President! The additional budget will provide additional funds to support victims of sexual crimes, and this is very necessary. However, the additional budget appropriations are far from sufficient to meet the need. Sexual offences take place all over Finland, so support services for victims should also be available everywhere in Finland. That is why we are proposing that a total of 1.8 million be added to support centres for victims of sexual crimes and children's services. This money could be used to start operations in different parts of Finland, rather than to provide services in just two cities. Support for victims of sexual crimes is very important because it can lower the threshold for reporting crimes and, of course, give them very important support in a traumatic and difficult situation. Now that there is no government,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u51	Mr President! Now that Sipilä's government has thrown the gloves on the table, it would be desirable that even the government parties in this Chamber should now admit that it is true that its own sins are behind this massive reform of social welfare and health care. What did they catch it for? After all, the government made a model that just didn’t work, so you can look in the mirror. But, Mr President, as far as these project companies are concerned, no one in this Chamber has opposed these infrastructure projects. After all, they are extremely important and must be promoted. The question is whether Parliament is following its own will: that it does not blow money from the Housing Fund for this purpose, but that money is spent on affordable housing production and supporting it. And in this regard, even though the government has already lived up to its responsibilities and thrown the gloves on the table, this is not the way for Parliament to act, and Parliament must follow the line that has been decided jointly in this Chamber and prevent this housing fund from blowing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u52	Madam President! It seems that the strongest growth is behind it, it is reflected in this forecast of tax revenues for the additional budget. In other words, it is likely that future decision-makers will also be left with work to do to raise Finland and increase the economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u55	Madam President! The issue of the interim is the strongest weapon in the opposition, with which it tries to wave the government, but yes, the war was in itself such a powerful weapon that it overturned itself but also took the government away. And now we have a ghost government. We also have ghost nurses, and I see that this attempt by the amending budget to improve the situation in the care of the elderly by increasing supervision does not hit the heart of it. It's just the beginning. In reality, we can only tackle the problems of care for the elderly by increasing staff and resources. As early as 2014, I took the initiative to register 0.7 of the carer’s size in the law, and I see that the government has been slow in taking forward the real way in which this situation in the care of the elderly could have been addressed. I also see that the human balance of the government has been poor. It was praised that the balance is good, but when I think and look humanly, the problems of care for the elderly are not new, and there is also the situation of hospice care, it is really in bad shape in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u56	Madam President! Representative Uotila here raised the vinjet fees. According to the information I have received, the vignette issue has been suspended in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u59	Mr President! Now it has to be said to Mr Pakkanen that the representatives of the opposition parties in the tax section had to stay in the section when the government parties went out to negotiate today and came out of the negotiations and said that the Vinjet Act was being suspended, period.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u60	Mr President! It does not show any leadership that, in this matter too, responsibility on the part of the government is being rolled away — both in the war and now in this vignette issue, where, as Mr Uotila said here, it is entirely the responsibility of the government to move forward. Take it forward if you think so. The opposition parties have warmly supported the idea of this vignette, both in this Chamber and elsewhere, and are, of course, concerned about the transport industry, but the fact that the government, in terms of both the war and this vignette, is not capable of making legislation that does not conflict with EU law or the Constitution or both, is not the fault of anything other than the government itself. And in that sense, of course, it is perfectly understandable for the government to leave these things unfinished with frustration, when this is not going to happen, and then to explain to the ballot boxes how they themselves have not had any responsibility. That leadership will be forgotten quite quickly at the time when we are retrieving election candy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u61	Mr President! However, I would like to correct a little of what Mr Harakka said I had said. I didn't say it doesn't matter if there's a government. I said good things should still be promoted. And then I would like to bring a little sense of proportion to this debate. Now we are talking about EUR 70 million for this capitalisation, with the liquid assets of the Housing Fund amounting to around EUR 2 billion. So when Mr Heinäluoma spoke here about robbery or emptying, that is at least a bit of an exaggeration. I would also like to say that, at least not myself, I have said that there will be a train tomorrow on that road, but if we do not start the planning now, which is precisely the intention at this stage also for the Finnish track,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u62	Madam President! Now, before Mr Pakkanen leaves the Chamber, I would like to say clearly that it is by no means the case that the opposition is about to overthrow the vignette. It depends precisely on the quality of the bill. In other words, the government has made such a bill that is not acceptable to the EU, it is not acceptable to other organisations, and if it falls, as it will certainly do, it is precisely the poor preparatory work, not the opposition's fault.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u63	Madam President! There are indeed many very good aspects of this draft amending budget, and this is now arguing about why the government fell, taking a little aside from this. I would now like to thank the government for reacting quickly to the pain spots. And I think it is important that, even if this is the end of the line, the key issues are addressed. On this point, I also believe that this housing fund money should not now be used for anything other than what it is intended for. I believe that there are other balances in our government finances from which this money can be taken, and they would be much fairer when they are taken out of these very housing funds.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u64	Madam President! I agree with those critical criticisms that are criticising this particular investment fund in this context. Here Mr Ala-Nissila has already said that there is a crash in Turku, and Mr Rossi described how we are supposedly opposed here. But I have to say, this is a little trouble accepting this whole thing. The parliamentary group committed itself to a 12-year plan, and the committee, when dealing with the report on transport policy, refrained from saying, naming a single route, no track that should be built first, but looked at together, taking the decisions for the whole population and for the whole industry and for the mobility of people, not by a single minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u65	Madam President! There have been a lot of discussions here. I too would like to say that the resignation of Prime Minister Sipilä was consistent in that in the autumn of 2015, he said that he would walk to the President if he did not have 18 provinces, and now that there were no 18 provinces, the Prime Minister resigned. With regard to these trains, I too am in favour of the train, which will get you to Tampere in an hour and out of Turku in an hour. As far as Mr Vähämäki's speech on these attempts, which have even been criminally neglecting their responsibilities in the care of the elderly for their greed and immorality, it is quite clear that this will certainly be taken into account in the municipalities in the future. Of course, it would be even better for the patient, the customer, to have the opportunity to choose for himself, and then to invest in quality in a completely different way than is the case today.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u66	And two more debatable speeches, and then we go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u67	Mr President! On this issue of the Housing Fund: This 73 million is not used to build the track, it can be done without this. This is a huge distortion, President, when we are trying to link this issue specifically to the fact that we are not going on track. For the sake of safety, it would be worth reading, for example, these statements by the SDP, three of which are specifically referring to the promotion of these railway projects. [Caribbean interlude call] In other words, I do not understand what kind of spectacles these protests are now being read there, because today has been marked by the fact that we are actually distorting what people have said or what they are saying or what has happened in the tax section. I am very surprised at the spirit of this Chamber that completely wrong messages are being given.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u68	Madam Speaker! Firstly, I would like to remind you that there is a report by the Committee on Finance, regardless of what kind of government we have, and I hope that there will be a majority in this Chamber to safeguard the report adopted by the majority of the Committee on Finance. The biggest criticism, which is of course politically interesting — this project company and its operating model. They are good things and respond to the expectation that is. I understand that there are different forms of financing, but there is no alternative to this capitalisation from the opposition. I therefore expect that in what way you will capitalise this company's operating model and take forward the project which will then enable it to be leveraged forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u69	Then let us go to the list of speakers, Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u70	Mr President! I don't really know how to describe or analyze this time frame. When I listened to the debate in the Chamber until now, and when the speech went into this vexation, it came to mind, Mr President, that the truth is that the government has made a good proposal, which we have also supported, that it cannot be taken forward. The government parties decide to overthrow it, that is what happened in the tax section practically today, and then the sitting and the government parties will appear here in the Chamber and tell us that the opposition overturned this proposal, and the opposition has opposed this. It's strange, isn't it? The only thing missing from this farce, Mr President, is that the next thing the people in the centre are going to Riihimäki or Hämeenlinna for a market event in which they say they have their own vignette model. Is that how it's gonna be? This is unfortunate, Mr President, and I would not like to see a debate like this. [TimoCall] But, President, as I said earlier, we are not opposed to any rail projects — on the contrary, we want to promote them. For example, we in the committee have heard experts from the Ministry of Finance, and there too we have been informed of the different options for this model, and I believe that Mr Uotila, who has also been in this working group that has dealt with them, will certainly shed some light on these. So this is what it's been all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u77	Madam President! About this ARA hijacking: First of all, of course, this involves whether Parliament respects its own decisions. If it is in its recent report in December, it is precisely after reflecting on the ARA resolutions and previous policies, reflecting on them to this day, that ARA's money must be spent on housing, then it is a tough place if it is not respected. It may be interpreted that everything possible is housing — I said in that committee that even the purchase of destroyers can be justified by the fact that they are, in some way, safeguarding housing in crisis situations — but that line goes somewhere, and I believe that the Committee on Audit has meant housing more specifically, that is to say, renovation, renovation and so on. As far as this second and perhaps most important aspect of this additional budget is concerned: First of all, I must say that this is a joint protest and a little history of the opposition, the Greens, the Democrats and the Left Alliance, because, as I recall, we made a joint objection to the first additional budget for the parliamentary term, and now also in the final stages, and this reflects the condensation of the lines in the run-up to the elections on the opposition side. I have been in the corrective debt working group and I have been in the working groups led by Berner since then during this parliamentary term, and it is true that Parliament too has repeatedly stated in the Committee on Finance that it is important to actively look for different funding models, particularly for the implementation of major transport infrastructure projects, and that they could also be dealt with in a slightly different way from other operating expenditure and so on. Yes, there is a will to look for these funding models. But now that this project has progressed, we must remember that this Berner Group has just stated in its final report that the aim is to draw up a 12-year transport system plan, which will be carried out in very close cooperation with the regions and industry and, above all, with parliamentary preparation, and to see what routes are needed, what solutions are needed and what funding models are then needed to implement the routes that have been deemed necessary. Berner's working group had found that one option — one possible option — was the project company model for the construction of individual sections of the line, and when the Ministry of Finance then drew up a working group that submitted its report in December, this was also stated by this working group led by the Ministry of Finance in December, and it also stated that it is natural to take decisions on these projects in the context of the Government Programme negotiations and the Government Programme. That, of course, also leaves a little bit of parliamentarianism in question, because the government programme is being drafted by the government parties that commit themselves to a common government, and in that way it is not as parliamentary as, for example, the work of this working group led by Berner. But here, the chairman of the committee, Mr Kalli has now called out that where is the money?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u82	Madam President! There are two things I would like to draw attention to. I am also a member of this parliamentary transport group, and I say that, as Mrs Myllykoski well pointed out here, we are leaving, as it were, a legacy to the incoming Parliament the planning, content and structure of this project company. I hope that this will also be the way forward. The committee has therefore paid particular attention to this and has stated that, at this stage, it is mainly a question of planning a project company and operating model, the actual investment and financing decisions will be taken at a later stage. This has been a good line, and in this way the next government and parliament will probably make a more precise bet on what the next 12 years could contain, and the next Parliament will complement what they could have for the next 12 years, which is to say that a very far-reaching approach was being created here. The second point that I would like to draw particular attention to is this weakening of the conditions for employment in the third sector. I think this is bad now, because the third sector has a way of working in the middle of the labour market, in which in most cases those who are able to work — and I myself am involved in many associations that employ people who come back from prison, for example — will have the opportunity to enter the labour market at their own pace, and many of them, when they get started, will be employed anyway. I think it is bad that we are now restricting these conditions for action in the third sector. I think that society would make sense if it were to strengthen the third sector, which, among all those who are most hard-to-work at the moment, operates. They have the power, they have the know-how, they even have the emotional sympathy that people in difficult situations need to be able to find employment. We have quite a lot of these people, and when society has strong NGO activities, as in Finland, strong traditions, it must be strengthened rather than weakened.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u83	Mr President! As a result of what Mr Uotila has said, I remember that all the time that I have been in Parliament, we have been thinking about how transport funding could be reformed. There is not such a small municipality in Finland as not to invest in operating expenditure separately, to invest in investment expenditure separately and to seek funding from different channels. This is also absolutely necessary when we have 50 billion projects in Finland, find a new financial instrument, and now we are taking the first important steps. Of course, we can talk about whether the transport infrastructure — which is very relevant to housing, but whether it is related in such a way that it is natural to use the housing fund for this purpose. It can be discussed, but it is a matter of vision and can also be critical. Instead, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, once it has been suggested here that the Bank of Finland should be taken from the Bank of Finland, that is clearly contrary to the ECB's rules. National, government or parliament decisions cannot interfere with independent ECB systems.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u86	I give Mr Uotila a one-minute reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u87	Madam President! I agree with my friend, Mr Ala-Nissilä, that for years we have been concerned in the Committee on Budgets about the way in which these very large infrastructure projects can be financed, as I said in my speech. But it's not that simple when you're looking for that funding elsewhere. The state will receive the most affordable money in the world at the moment, practically at a minus interest rate. If you turn to pension companies, for example, when many people readily say that why not use Finnish pension funds to build lines, the question is that the legislation is based on the need to invest pension funds in a safe and productive way, and that is probably a 4-6 % return now. When we go to private finance in actual fact, investment companies, financial corporations and so on, they may be looking for even higher returns. I just wanted to say in my speech that it is not a simple matter in terms of finding this external cheap money in the short or long term.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u88	Madam President! Of course, there are some good points in the 2019 amending budget, which can be mentioned. It is great that resources are being allocated to strengthening the steering and control capabilities of the elderly and disabled services, as well as to preventing and combating the sexual exploitation of children and young people. These are good things. However, we have to consider the fact that dealing with these serious issues will raise questions. We could have done a lot more before. In 2014, I made a bill that suggested that the carer’s size 0.7 should be recorded in the law. If such a bill had come to Parliament, would we have better care for the elderly at the moment? In 2012 and 2015, I took legislative initiatives in connection with the aggravating of minimum sentences for serious sexual offences. If one of these had progressed so far that we had decided and such a law would have become more severe, would it have had a preventive effect on what has happened in Finland in Oulu, among others? Would it have been a fear that the sentences will be tougher and, instead of a conditional sentence, the sentence will always be absolute, that is, to go to prison if you commit these gross acts? In other words, we could have acted preventively, and in that sense the governments have been too slow now and during the last period. Governments have acted too slowly and have not seen the reality and future to which we have headed. It is a good thing that supervision has now come up in relation to care for the elderly, but it alone does not improve the situation of care for the elderly. I would like to tell you a little about the history that, in my opinion, as a nurse, has caused the situation of care for the elderly to be so poor. 2008 we had a very good, effective quality recommendation for services for older people, with high dimensions. They left from 0.5 to 0.8, but in 2013 the quality recommendation was renewed and the dimensioned was weakened so that it was dropped to 0.5. Since then, all operators, care centres, began to carry out this latest dimensioning of the time, i.e. the 0.5 in 2013, and it has continued until these days. In other words, when no more is required or even proposed, the minimum resource is going. I see that supervision alone is not the specific measure here, but the fact that there are more carers. After all, Hetemä's memo was pretty creepy reading. It was, among other things, in our Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and it was proposed that digital nurses replace the nurse at home. In my opinion, the digital nurse who handles the glass is not enough; you always need warm hands on your side. No good treatment is ensured through the cold glass behind the computer screen or the cell phone screen. We have a ghost nurse problem in Finland. It is hoped that now that these resources are allocated to that control, every ghost nurse will disappear from Finland — now we have a ghost government that will of course no longer comment on these matters. Among other things, the recent debate raised the issue of the issue of the care of the elderly and criticised the fact that there has been an interim debate here. It is a great thing that the opposition can use the most powerful weapon, that is, an intermediate issue, to try to destabilise the government and to bring up abuses. But the war was in itself such a powerful weapon that it overturned itself and at the same time took away the government. It's a good thing to remember. When there are proposals that are unconstitutional and collide with that matter, that mountain, the mountain of the Constitution, then they tend to fall. The Finnish people's model and position on social welfare reform and, among other things, freedom of choice were also raised here in the debate. I would like to remind you that the position of the Finns-based group was critical from the outset, and that meant that critically we began to look at this model, including freedom of choice, and it was revealed that it was absolutely impossible to implement it. One of the major problems there was that the customer's real freedom of choice did not materialise when, for example, the care place itself can choose its customers. So the heavily treated patients might not be able to get to where they wanted to go, where they would have made the choice, and so would remain for the province to deal with. These are the truths, and of course I also know that when I was a nurse, it was always said that all the hardest customers, patients, were being treated in the public sector, and someone else was taking the raisins out of that bun. They said the government's balance was good. In my opinion, the human balance of the government is poor. This Chamber lacks the human vision and empathy that many decisions should have, and this question of care for the elderly in particular would require a great heart. It certainly requires money and resources, and that is what we can find when we rationalize and cut back where it is possible to take on — in other words, more resources for economic balance and care for the elderly. I hope that the next government will continue with what these debates here today also relate to, namely to take it first on its desk and then go on to deal with this issue. But with these words — I see that control is not enough. When the cat is gone, the mice are on the table. This is the old wisdom and truth, so let us remember it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u89	Madam President! According to the Swedish Parliamentary Group, it is good that the government's amending budget has given particular attention to the development of care for the elderly and the eradication of sexual crime. Of course, in the background there have been cases that occurred in early 2019, which have been a wake-up call both locally and nationally. The problems are complex and there is no clear solution to their solution. However, the Swedish Parliamentary Group believes that more can be done. Sexual violence has several different manifestations. Its victims are young as well as old, men and women. In modern times, practices have varied, and the Internet has created a new platform for sexual violence. It is great that the government in the amending budget increases the resources of the police and increases the presence of the police where the young people are. The Swedish Parliamentary Group stresses that every victim of sexual violence must be offered assistance and support regardless of who is responsible for the violence. Finland has ratified the Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, the so-called Istanbul Convention. According to the Istanbul Convention, Finland must set up support centres for victims of rape and other sexual violence. Currently, there are only two crisis centres for rape victims in Finland. According to experts, at least three new crisis centres for rape victims would be needed in Finland. The so-called low-threshold crisis centre costs about EUR 300000 a year. The number of asylum homes and rape centres has long been driven by many organisations from different sides of society. In its 2018 report, the Ombudsman for Gender Equality recommended that women who have been subjected to sexual and other violence should be supported by setting up eight new shelters and three rape centres. The Swedish Parliamentary Group supports this objective. With regard to care for the elderly, we would like to say that everyone believes that our elderly deserve good care when they are no longer able to take care of themselves. The Government's amending budget provides additional appropriations for monitoring the services and rights of the elderly and disabled to the Regional State Administrative Agencies and the Parliamentary Ombudsman's Office. It is important to monitor the care of the elderly. We are used to keeping the agreement in Finland. Unfortunately, we have now seen that this is not always the case. Of course, increasing supervision alone will not remedy the actual problem of elderly services, the poor situation of care staff, but it will improve it. In order to measure the number of nurses, priority must be given to the need for services, the individual care of the elderly. The need for treatment depends on the physical, cognitive, mental and social ability of the customers and the need for service. It's the nurses' job to be nurses. This development is not acceptable if important support measures such as cleaning or some administrative support measure are abandoned in order to increase productivity. This results in the nurse being burdened with a number of tasks that have nothing to do with the treatment itself. Therefore, more transparency is also needed for care services. Finally, Mr President, I would like to raise the issue of the national vaccination programme and its importance. The vaccine coverage is generally at a good level in Finland, but in order to avoid the risk of major epidemics, we must ensure that it is at an adequate level throughout Finland. We now know that in certain areas, such as Ostrobothnia, vaccination coverage is already below 90%. In the Pietarsaari region, for example, only about 83% of children born in 2013 have received an MPR vaccine. This figure is alarmingly low and therefore, for example, the risk of measles infection is high. Achieving a good level across the country requires education and more effective information. It allows us to increase the willingness of families to be vaccinated. Finally, we also support, according to the recommendations of the THL, the extension of HPV vaccination to boys. The Swedish parliamentary group supports the report by the Committee on Finance, but we are making five statements which describe what I have said. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u90	Mr President! This amending budget contains a number of important additions, including the monitoring of care for the elderly and the control of early childhood education. In fact, in that sense, although these incidents were appalling and shocking, we were certainly all awakened by the debate that was taking place here, and I believe that many decision-makers in their own municipalities have now paid particular attention to the way in which the care of the elderly is controlled in the municipalities. This was done at least in Vantaa, where it became apparent that we also have our own municipal care services, while in neighbouring municipalities Helsinki and Espoo only private care institutions are supervised. I do not think that this should be the case. Yes, the controls must also hit their own care facilities, because we know that there is certainly room for improvement on both sides. At least from my own experience, when my grandparents have been both in home care, in a service house, in care services and then in hospital, in institutional care, I can say that there is a lot of good care, really great work is done, but then there are also situations where the quality of service is very difficult to control at the moment. In addition to providing additional resources for monitoring services for the elderly, additional resources for monitoring early childhood education are also very welcome. After all, as parents, we must be confident that when we take our children to day care, they will be well cared for there. Of course, professionals are doing their best, but it cannot be that resources are being put too tight in such a way that the number of adults, the number of breeders, is too low and is being repeated. In fact, with the reform of the early childhood education law, the Committee on Education and Rural Development also made it possible to exercise self-monitoring over the avenues, which means that there is no longer any need to complain, but can also be self-monitored. I hope this opportunity will be used. I would also like to point out from this amending budget that it is now possible to set up an Olympic fund, i.e. to provide for a more long-term financing of top-level sport, so that the State in proportion to the collection of private funds into the fund would capitalise this fund with shares. I think it is a very good and worthwhile way of trying to secure funding a little further into the future. In the previous debate: I understand this fundamental criticism of what has been said here, but one might ask how many affordable housing would have been built or repaired if this money had not been spent for this purpose, where it has now been put. So I understand the principle, but maybe you can use pragmatism.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u91	Mr President! Perhaps a few more words about this infrastructure company that there will be no complete misunderstanding as to how these things should be planned and how important these fast rail connections are both from the west to Helsinki and this main line and then, eventually, also from the east. The problem here is that the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport and Communications do not share the same views. To quote an old cliché, the skis have crossed. As soon as the Ministry of Finance had made its own general view of what these models of infrastructure projects would be, the Ministry of Transport and Communications hastened to do theirs, and as the committee's hearing showed, they are not the same. This is regrettable because for many years now there has been time to promote these projects and we are still at a time when we have not been able to get on with ourselves. Today there was also a completely new term in the hall when it was said that although the hoe is not in the country, at least the design pit is in the country. It has been so for several years now, and at least this government cannot be blamed for haste. Twitter account An hour train has been established four years ago. What is essential, then, is how this project company finances itself, how it operates, where it receives funding, and now, unfortunately, it has to be said that, in many respects, according to a report received by the committee, these project companies planned by the Ministry of Transport and Communications leave room for manoeuvre in the details when revenue flows are estimated to be unrealistically high and costs too low. It is difficult to assess this because the committee itself has not received precise calculations of the financial and implementation of the companies planned. It is therefore important that there should be a political body and a political will to take these forward. In December 2018, a working group report from the Ministry of Finance outlined a model that would be the most natural project company, e.g. a company owned by the state and possibly municipalities, which would design and implement the project and obtain financing during the construction period. It would be an economic exercise to minimise the financial costs, of course, and it means that the public authority is the sponsor or guarantor, because the State receives the funding at the lowest cost. Infra would always be publicly owned and would be sold to the State with a long payment period after its completion. After that, for example, the Fairway Agency would then manage how to operate the rail link, and that would certainly help to recover some of the costs. Everyone therefore warmly supports the implementation of these high-speed rail links, the extension of working areas outside the capital region, but this must be done with a cost-effective model, and unfortunately, there has now been too long a break in this work in terms of political guidance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u92	Mr President! Yes, actually here earlier, Mr Ala-Nissila, who is currently not in the Chamber, analysed this a little — is this now the decision of the Audit Committee, what it meant? I found this here when I remembered that he had taken a stand fresh when this solution came. Amongst other things, there was strong criticism from KOVA and public opinion from the opposition parties, at least from the SDP and the Left Alliance, raised this issue and asked the question, so Ala-Nissilä said that she admits that the government's proposal for an additional budget is not exactly in line with the report of the Audit Committee approved by Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u95	Madam President! I would like to draw attention to one more point here. It is that this amending budget provides for an additional 82 million contributions to strengthen the management and control capabilities of, inter alia, the elderly and disabled services. A few ideas about what has brought society into this situation, that we will have to increase our control resources to an increasing extent. Is it a matter of a service provider, whether a municipality or a private, not seeing the rest of the life of an elderly person as such a valuable thing — so valuable that he would automatically strive to have a valuable old age without supervision? This is a rather worrying situation, and I think it would be right for society to have more debate about why we do not automatically aim for the best possible social situation in which elderly people are given a valuable life. When we let go of the old, safe, Christian heritage on which the entire value base of Western society rests, in this context when this happens when so - called secularisation increases, it usually happens that morals are fragmented and gray areas are increased. In this context, I feel obliged to say that those old values are not so bad. I have often wondered what this rage is in society when there is such a desire to get rid of this old and good value base. My guess, Mr President, is that we are going to end up like Sweden at the moment, where we are going to think about whether secularism has really brought its happiness, its expectation of happiness, whether those expectations have been met, or whether there is reason to go back to that old and safe thing. The Pentecostal newspaper has asked this question, wondered and brought out a point of view when there was a wide debate in Holland on the subject when one of the most important daily newspapers wrote: Has secularism brought us happiness or not? President! I would like to have a debate on this subject because, in the end, no money will be enough to monitor if this value base is not in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u96	Madam President! Indeed, with this additional budget proposal, the government reacted to the current shortcomings — both the revealed sexual offences, especially in Oulu and the problems of care for the elderly, and also the problems of early childhood education, kindergartens, especially here in the capital region. These addendums are for the police. The fight against sexual offences in Oulu as regards control resources for early childhood education and elderly services is to be welcomed. They are necessary, but at the same time they raise the question of why there has been no more action. In the case of older services, it has already been clearly apparent before the problems of these services were raised that staffing recommendations have not been sufficient. In fact, even in their own alternative budget, the Christian Democrats raised this problem before it even came up in public, and we proposed an additional budget for this year that a thousand elderly nurses should have been hired to provide services for the elderly. This proposal is still quite timely. Yes, we need that staffing dimension in the law. I hope that the future government and the future parliament will take this seriously. Then these resources for monitoring early childhood education. They are also necessary, but they also raise the question, which is why the government specifically reduced the number of kindergarten staff by dropping the number of nurses and children into the 1:8 ratio. In other words, it was weakened during this parliamentary term and now more control resources are being added to ensure that even that ratio is in force. Then these sexual crimes. There are a lot of things that need to be raised here. I myself have repeatedly suggested, for example, that serious sexual crimes against children, aggravated rapes should not be allowed to get old. So we should get rid of the aging times. I hope it's on the next government's agenda.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u97	Madam President! Very good questions have been raised here: why are we in this situation that care for the elderly is stalling? Why do we need supervision? Can we not be confident that the operators from whom we have purchased services will not fulfil the obligation that we have given them? This is solely because in 2008 we had a Ministry’s recommendation on the quality of services for the elderly, in which the personnel size was between 0.5 and 0.8, i.e. the accordion was long. In 2013, the then government introduced a new quality recommendation for services for older people, which reduced the accordion and left a figure of 0.5. Since 2013, actors in both the municipal sector and private places have implemented a recommendation of 0.5. In other words, in 2013 we have counted out of the bag something that has been out of control and that is that the lowest dimension 0.5 is used because why should we use the larger one if it is in the recommendation 0.5. And this is the reason. In 2017, when the Finns of Finland were no longer in the government, the next quality recommendation for services for the elderly became, and it expanded the staff who all are counted to the size. In other words, this has been a bit of a pain in the way of staffing, and it has taken place within the quality recommendation which has created the standards, values, guidelines for the local government sector. That's why. The Finns have been making a lot of noise about nursing, the matter of care for the elderly. Perhaps it is also because we have had representatives of health care staff. Last season we had Johanna Jurva from Uusimaa, Vantaa, and I myself am a nurse from my background. When I want to talk to you about that quality recommendation here so much, it's because I've read it, it was in my hands when I was working, in 2008, I was a shop steward. And I think that paper, that document was extremely strong and vigorous when I, the document in my hand, marched to talk about the need for additional staff. So if we went there under 0.7, then it was easy to say that, hey, this quality recommendation does allow more of that staff. So once we have given an informative signal to the municipal sector to use the minimum size, then they will. We are talking about money, we are talking about the economy, we are talking about business and I do not believe that the care sector is ever a business. This is the underlying reason. And I hope everyone will go through the documents, get to know them. They can be found online, quality recommendations from previous years. At the beginning of the 21st century, the first has been made in relation to these dimensions. Read them and you will understand what has weakened this situation. Madam President! It is good that this control is being increased, but it is not just enough. Here I would like to raise a very important issue, hospice care and hospice care in the elderly sector. We have a situation in Finland where we have more and more domestic care units. And when we have a home-like care unit, it means that it is not possible for a hospital-like milieu, or for an operational capacity, or even for a health centre, but for doing what it does in the home. This means that there is no pain medication, lack of care equipment, lack of equipment and what is sometimes needed in the situation of a dying patient, a person. And these are problems when we do not know and do not see there, so hospice will not happen. I have received a lot of messages myself, and at the very best, there is one thing I am trying to figure out here when the situation is that hospice treatment has been bad and lame. So there has been this traditional situation: there is not enough pain medication, there is no relaxation and there is no understanding of what should be done. And these situations are unbearable. These are strongly related to the elderly care sector. They relate to the kind of domestic units that are being set up and set up in Finland, it relates to the fact that institutional care facilities have been closed down, the health centre bed is no longer available, it is minimum, people are sent to homes. This is a major problem and a matter, and I hope that the next government will understand the importance of the hospice law as well. I've also made a bill on hospice law. I've written a piece of paper and stuff. Since we don't have the law, you can't make a bill, but you have to write the law yourself, and it's now written out of the nurse's pen. I would hope that the next minister will take it into consideration and secure and guarantee all Finns the subjective right to good hospice care, which involves making decisions together with the family and the patient, and that pain relief, palliative care, is available and there will also be mental support. That's big, big questions. We're talking about infinitely deep things. We are at the source of humanity when we talk about these things and when we also take them forward. In other words, the Act on Hospice Care Act 2014, 2017 — I ask that the future Parliament take them forward and do things to ensure that the future of each person is secured in that respect. One thing that unites us in this life: it is not status and it is not money; it is age and old age and aging. We will all grow old one day, we will all be there in the same line, and it is unfortunate that only then will we find that we have made completely wrong decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u98	Madam President! Mr Laukkanen has just talked about a change in the value base, which has contributed to these unfortunate phenomena, which are now being made up of money in this additional budget, and I would like to draw up a specific example here — which, in fact, I already had a written question prepared, but now that there is no political government, there is no longer a political minister to answer these questions. In relation to the specific cases in Oulu and sexual offences, I think that we, as a society as a whole, also have a responsibility for the change in the value base that has exposed these young girls to the exploitation they have been subjected to by these immigrants, and I am raising the issue of sexual education in schools. In the sexual education of schools, such organisations as Seta and Sexpo play a very important role in practice. They are referred to there in learning materials and schoolwork, and, for example, the online material of Sexpo, funded by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, states: ‘Internet and social media are good tools for self-expression;net caninclude ideas,photos and situations with others. Your body and sexuality are allowed to rejoice, and you can express your sexuality online as well as anywhere else. It is up to everyone to decide whether it is more valuable to express their own sexuality openly or to act with caution.” Then, with the comic book, young people have been encouraged to put naked pictures on the Internet — there is a comic like this in "Tissitnet",which encourages them to experiment with forms of sexual conduct, where children are unevolved to make themselves useful and to the pedophilia. I myself went through the materials in the health textbooks for the sexual education we have in the textbooks, and I was quite shocked when there was not a word about family, not about loyalty, not commitment, and even encouraging young people without any minimum age for sexual experimentation. It is clear that such education, while still strongly coming from the media and the rest of society, also exposes young people to sexual exploitation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u99	Madam President! I still want to come to this Chamber to tell you my own view of the vignette issue, because I have always defended it here over the years and I think it would have been good for this government proposal, which has been estimated here that it would somehow not be in line with EU law, now for once to test this kind of system. This proposal certainly fulfils the conditions, and this could then have been taken forward there if there had been any questions, because this means that Finland is one of the few European countries that have not used road charges as a means of financing the transport system as a whole and as a means of steering transport, as a means of countering competitive conditions. That is why I personally would like this matter to be taken forward and then, for once, to be answered if it is contrary to them. This is something comparable to this time-based road user charge for heavy traffic, which is called vignette. These various opinions have also stated that, with regard to this system of compensation for domestic transport, the partial compensation system is acceptable to EU law and could represent acceptable objectives from an EU perspective. I think it would be good to look at these things now and find out from there that, if they have the chance to go through, then the EU would seek that view of this. This would be extremely important for the Finnish transport industry. Of course, this is a bit of a shame when, here in some texts, this always comes about, that officials and judges may find themselves in a difficult position. Well, this may happen, but it usually happens in life that a civil servant or a judge gets into a difficult position. Then the matter will be clarified, and the judges have gone to school for it, so that even this difficult situation can be overcome. I think this would have been important if this vignette fee had been tested there for once in the EU, that are Finns the only ones for whom it is not appropriate when other EU countries have such a system.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u100	Madam President! Sexual crimes against children are truly shocking. In the Espoo Council I asked the Council a question, which is the situation in our own home town in relation to sexual crime, and when Mr Päivi Räsänen raised the issue of guidance and advice here, I would like to tell you that in Espoo we have guidance and material for Espoo schools and upper secondary schools in order to prevent sexual harassment and to address possible harassment. These topics will be discussed with children and young people at educational institutions in a manner appropriate to their age level and the support material will be utilised. And it may also be good to discuss matters at home if necessary. In addition, students and students have the opportunity to talk to teachers or curators, psychologists and school nurses if they wish. This was indeed a message from Espoo, and I think it is very important that municipalities and cities also take these matters into their own hands in such a way that they develop that guidance, advice and support in particular, and that there are those people you can talk to and tell. So now at least Espoo has acted in this way, and I see this model as very good and I hope that it will be applied elsewhere in Uusimaa as well as in Finland as a whole. Perhaps the most important thing about these is that there are reliable people there who young people are able to talk to and tell. Yes, this is an unprecedented and unprecedented phenomenon in Finland, and this should not be allowed under any circumstances. And such sanctions and punishments for these acts, that when you go to prison and cake comes, that's the end of it. So you're scared enough that the sentences are absolute and not conditional, because it doesn't feel like a condition at all. It's just a toy, because that's when you can continue to act in freedom.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u101	Mr President! Together with representative Juvonen, we have approved both the Government Programme, the spending limits committee and many budgets that are now implementing that policy. — Your speeches are somewhat different from mine, even though we have both accepted these rules together. Now, in this last part, you are separated from what you were before. — With this I would just like to warn you who will continue in Parliament after the parliamentary elections: the government negotiations will jointly agree how the next four years will proceed, and the resources will then be allocated. No one here has at all interfered with the fact that we are in debt of EUR 107 billion and this year we are taking on more debt of EUR 1.9 billion. Let us hope that this reflects the fact that, after the elections, money will not grow on the tree, but will also have to be carefully prioritised and thought about what money will be spent on and how it will sustain economic growth, competitiveness, so that we are able to deal with the elderly, children and that enough money can also be allocated to education and education, research and development. I warn you that when you take part in government negotiations, remember to bear in mind the speeches that have been made here in the last few years, in the last few months. We have to look ahead. It's not easy to remember the past, it's just to look ahead, and that's why I'm warning you. As Mr Uotila and I are about to leave our place, I am sure we believe that in the future you will be better off than we are.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u102	Madam President! However, after Mr Pakkanen's speech, I wanted to come back and tell you why the representatives of the government parties in the tax section of the Committee on Finance today concluded that there was no progress on the vigjet law. That is perfectly understandable and, in fact, I think it is a responsible line from these groups. The background is that the vignette fees can be adjusted, and Estonia introduced a vignette from the beginning of 2018, but it is a vignette that concerns both Estonian trucks and foreign trucks in Estonian transport. If the government had made such a proposal, there would be no problem, but the proposal that the government made after a long drag was a proposal that, according to my knowledge, a preparatory official would have wanted to stop the preparation, but when the Chancellor of Justice said that if the Constitutional Affairs Committee found the legal basis for the discrimination that this proposal contains — a 12-tonne limit or the inequality of compensation between the various entrepreneurs — and if these can be legally amended and corrected, then this can go forward. Now that these shortcomings have not been remedied, it would have been quite clear that this would definitely have led to an action. Since this information was quite clear, not only when the Commission was informed of the Chancellor of Justice, but also in the statements made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, if this had now been pushed forward stubbornly, this would probably have stopped at the time of the confirmation of the President of the Republic. Some may say that we should not be more papal than the Pope himself and should not be humbled in the face of EU law, but the situation is that, when we are Member States of the Union, we are bound by EU law and its primacy and illegal decisions in this Chamber, even if we wish to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u103	Madam President! Not much to add to Mr Uotila's explanation. I am simply reading directly from the Constitutional Committee’s Opinion 79/2018, they say: ‘The committee highlights the role of the Chancellor of Justice in the pre-emptive control of the norm and the observance of the Chancellor of Justice’s positions. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Government's proposal does not provide a legal basis for a different view from that of Commission officials as required by the Chancellor of Justice." So this is just how it is going to be, just as Mr Uotila says that if it had been taken forward, it would probably have caught up with the President of the Republic at the latest.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u104	Madam President! It is a real shame that previous governments have not been able to calculate the fact that in 2019 we have an ageing population that needs services. There's been a major mathematical error. It has not been understood that the population is ageing. True Finns do not take responsibility for weakening the 2013 nurseship. We were in the opposition then, and that is not our responsibility. Instead, in 2014 we have taken a legislative initiative to register the nurse’s appointment in the law. Instead, the Finns take responsibility for the intention of today’s government to weaken the 0.5 - to - 0.4 nurse - size ratio to a total of one - to - one - two - to - one - to - one - to - one - to - one - to - one - to I was on the Committee on Social Affairs and Health at the time and worked hard there to get it overturned. And then there were members of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health from the government, and it was a great thing that together we strongly stated that it was an unreasonable act and that this should not be done. 2017 we were thrown out of the government because we were no longer fit to go there, which amazes us because we have so much sense and good ideas in our group. This is the truth, and since 2017, we have no longer been responsible for that government. And now that government is a ghost.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u105	Madam President! Here, too, the Constitutional Committee has been quoted — an important committee as such, but is it all part of it? If this isrequested by the Constitutional Committee, ‘the Constitutional Committee also considers that Article1(3) of the Constitution may also provide a legal basis for a significant position that does not make any attempt in Finnish legislation...’ But there is no doubt that it can ‘lead’,and not that it is absolutely striving. It's just that there's no point in trying. Of course I understand this concern, and this is how it is, but of course here officials and judges are protecting their own backs so that there will be no awkward situation like this. But when it has always been thought in this Chamber that there will only be restrictions in the EU and we will never dare to test it, now would have been an excellent place for this vignette, because this is possible, and when practice is in use in other EU countries, why can this not be taken to Finland? I just want to defend the Finnish transport companies here, not the EK, just as someone else here wants to defend them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u106	The general discussion is... Oh, sorry, Congressman Uotila. — However, we will stick to this amending budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u107	— Yeah. — I would just like to say that it is, indeed, unreasonable for Mr Pakkanen to refer to it. We responsible parliamentarians here will defend the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u108	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 36/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The matter was put on the table at this plenary session and the general debate was suspended at the plenary session on 5 March 2019. Continue the general debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u109	Madam President! I remember one time in the market when the lady said to me, disapprovingly, that you Members of Parliament do not even pay taxes on your salary. There are strong ideas in the minds of the people about what it's like to be a congressman. Some of the ideas are true and some of them aren't. We'll pay the taxes on our salary. Eight parliamentary groups have come to a solution based on the public sense of law when they propose that the Parliament’s adaptation pension scheme be abolished. My cup went down permanently in the spring of 2018, when the media reported on a former MP who has been in gainful employment and continuously increasing the adjustment pension since 2003. The arrangement in which the former MP has been fully paid first for a month's work and then for a month's leave does not serve in any way the idea of what has been recorded in the MP's pension law when the adaptation pension is laid down. There are also examples of how wages are taken as capital income, for example, in order to minimise the impact on the adjustment pension. There's been far too much misty. Now the abuses are brought to an end: the backs of the banknotes will be put under control. If anything, the adjustment pension of the MP has led to moral hazard. In a difficult economic situation, the government has had to cut, adjust and intervene in benefits. The effects have spread to everyone. In particular, the adaptation pension received by a Member of Parliament cannot be considered appropriate in such a situation. Mr President! Citizens also took a strong stance on the adaptation pensions of MPs. The citizens' initiative, which called for the abolition of the adjustment pension, collected more than 70,000 declarations of support. I represented the Blue Parliamentary Group in the negotiations between the chairmen. I have to say, at first, I didn't think we'd find an understanding. I'm glad I was wrong. All but the Finns committed themselves to the joint performance. The adjustment pensions will be abolished. In the future, all MPs will receive, after their duties, an adaptation allowance that has been available to elected MPs since 2011 and since then. The adjustment allowance shall be paid for a period of between 1 and 3 years on the basis of the length of the parliamentary mandate. This is based on the opinions of the constitutional experts we received during the negotiations. In addition to earnings and entrepreneurial income, capital income will also be taken into account when paying the adjustment allowance, so any abuse will be prevented. The previous President, Maria Lohela, began the work of civil servants on the abolition of adaptation pensions, and the present President, Paula Risikko, has successfully completed the work. The thanks are due to both speakers and to all the parliamentary groups involved in the agreement. Mr President! In this context, I would like to take the opportunity to say a few words about the dinosaurs in politics, as the media has called for long-term parliamentarians. Finland is no longer a democracy; we are an established and stable democracy. In part, thanks are due to the long-standing defenders of parliamentarianism, some of which are now leaving Parliament. Thanks Timo Soini, Seppo Kääriäinen, Pertti Salolainen, Timo Kalli, Lea Mäkipää, Sirkka-Liisa Anttila, Martti Mölsä, Lauri Ihalainen, Mauri Pekkarinen, Markku Rossi, Kauko Juhantalo, Kari Uotila, Eero Heinäluoma, Stefan Wallin, Tapani Tölli and other elected representatives leave Parliament. In the future, Parliament must adapt to life without your captivating personality and your important contribution to the hall discussions. I dare say that Parliament will miss each and every one of you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u114	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health dealt with the adaptation pension law initiative, which is from this Parliament. I am a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and have raised an objection on this subject, and here I would like to point out the background and basis of our objections. Madam President! The Finnish people have once again used the most powerful weapon for the people, the citizens' initiative, to bring important issues to their attention. The citizens are doing what they think is important to them, and by signing the citizens' initiative they are bringing to our attention the things that they want us to drive forward here, and some have also progressed in this Chamber. And now such a bill, which has come from the parliamentary groups. The Finns of Peru started to correct the excesses, i.e. the abolition of the adaptation pension scheme, in accordance with the citizens' initiative on the subject and the initiative of the Finns of Peru. After all, our group has also become a legislative initiative in connection with this abolition. According to the position of the People's Party in Finland, the matter of abolition should not have been linked to the raising of the MEPs' own benefits, and as a group we feel that this is happening now. In preparation, alongside the original objectives of the reform, a number of improvements in the benefits were added to the de-adaptation of MPs. The Finns do not accept an increase in the amount of adjustment money. This is further emphasised by the fact that there is no obligation to engage in an adaptation grant. The proposals also include other benefits that are not supported by the Finns. This obligation of activity is very timely in our protest, because we currently have an active model in Finland that obliges jobseekers to take an active role, and we see that we, as Members of Parliament, will continue to do so in the labour market. In order to remedy these shortcomings, the objection proposes that the pensioner who now has a pension to be abolished should be entitled to an adjustment allowance for two years instead of a retirement pension that has been abolished. In the bill, the right to an adaptation allowance was proposed for a period of three years. So the Finns are playing for two years. The legislative initiative under consideration also proposes that the adjustment allowance be paid if the mandate of the representative has lasted at least one year. We propose to maintain the legal status in force in this respect. In such cases, if, at the end of the post, the MP has not reached the retirement age, he or she is entitled to an adaptation allowance in such a way that the adjustment allowance is paid for a maximum period of one year, provided that he or she has been represented for at least three years but for less than seven years. The objection continues to suggest that if, at the end of the adjustment allowance, the MP has reached the age of 59, the adjustment allowance may be paid up to the age of 65. The amount of the adjustment allowance shall always be at least the amount resulting from the seven-year mandate in accordance with Article 6(1). The bill proposes that the amount of the adjustment allowance should always be at least the amount of the nine-year mandate. So we are proposing seven years, and this bill is nine years old. Finally, we propose that the provision that the Staff Committee may, on application, grant an additional adjustment allowance to the parliamentary representative be deleted. In the event of any unacceptable situation, the bill proposes the right of the Staff Committee to grant discretionary adaptation allowance for health or other specific reasons for a maximum period of 12 months. Here we will then have these motions for amendments, which will be presented when the time comes, but here, in all, the content of our objection. And indeed, the people sometimes bring very difficult issues to the House, often also ethical issues. We have had an equal marriage law, we have had a euthanasia citizens' initiative here in the debate, we had an active model citizens' initiative. Now we also received this abolition of adaptation pensions. I want to correct a few more terms here. When we talk about a MP getting paid, that's not a salary, it's a reward. Of course, we also have a tax-free allowance, that is to say, we do not pay a tax in that respect, but we have a tax-free allowance. These are still the minor corrections to the general terms.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u115	Mr President! The report of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health states: ‘The bill, which was signed by the President of the Eighth Council Group, proposes that the adjustment It is also proposed that the adjustment pension be abolished from all former MPs currently receiving an adaptation pension as soon as the law enters into force.” When drawing up the report, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has also taken note of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which states that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has considered that legislative proposals can be dealt with in the order in which ordinary legislation is adopted. Furthermore, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers that the abolition of the adaptation pension does not prejudice the protection of the property of Members of Parliament who are entitled to an adaptation pension or who already enjoy it. So I saw PeVi. In its report, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers it justified that all Members of Parliament should be covered by the same system of benefits after their term of office. I believe that this is an excellent, clear and consistent basis and solution. Mr President! For years, very young MPs who have left Parliament have been receiving an adaptation pension worth thousands of euros, that is, an adaptation pension and not an adaptation allowance. People are getting a pension, even if otherwise they do not meet the other pension criteria, and this is at least hard for me to accept, let alone understand. Mr President! That is why I am in favour of this bill, signed by the eight chairmen of the parliamentary group. I hope it will come into force. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u116	Madam President! At least some of these amendments are related to points where there might be constitutional aspects if they were to be changed, because precisely the limits that have been agreed in this agreement between the eight parliamentary groups are indeed related to expert judgements made by constitutional experts that if those who have had this adaptation pension benefit are to be removed, then there must be no disproportionate constitutional situations, and that is why these limits have been reached. What I am surprised about is that, in a referral debate, for example, Mr Huhtasaari said that the adjustment allowance should not be increased, but then, on the other hand, the group leader Meri has publicly said that the adjustment allowance should be at the same level as the earnings-related unemployment benefit. That would increase the adjustment allowance and would increase more than raise this proposal, which eight parliamentary groups have agreed to. This does not raise the earnings-related level — close but not to that level. So, yes, there are major flaws in the logic here. There is no head or tail in the speeches if it is said in the referral debate that there is no desire to increase the adjustment allowance and not to increase the adjustment allowance, but then it is said that it must be raised to earnings-related levels. Well, at least I'm a little confused about what that line is.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u117	Mr President! As Mrs Juvonen said in her previous speech, the Finns of Peru also support the abolition of this completely unfair adjustment pension scheme, and precisely in the spirit of the citizens' initiative on the subject. We do not believe that the benefits of those who fall from the Parliament or who give up the mandate should be raised from the present. Nor have we proposed that the adjustment allowance be raised to the level of earnings-related daily allowance. On the other hand, we have tabled four amendments to this objection to the report. I will go over them briefly, although Mrs Juvonen has already made a good point. First of all, in our own protest that the current condition of the adjustment allowance, the act of a representative of a Parliament of at least three years' duration, should be maintained at its present level and not reduced to one year. In addition, this bill, which has been signed by other parliamentary groups, amends this minimum amount of adjustment money so that in the future the minimum amount will be determined according to the current seven years, instead of the current seven, and that would mean an increase of several hundred euros in the minimum adjustment allowance. In this respect, the Finns of Peru support the current state of the law and hence the lower level of adjustment money. We are also making a clause to the effect that this transitional period would be just two years instead of three years. This transitional period applies precisely to situations where the right to adaptation pensions ceases. Even constitutional experts, on the basis of our views and opinions, would have been prepared to accept this shorter transitional period of two years. Finally, the Finns Party wishes to delete the section on this bill, which would grant the Staff Committee discretion in granting an additional 12-month adjustment allowance in the event of an expiry of the right to adapt. In our view, all recipients of adaptation funds should continue to be treated on a uniform basis, clearly defined by law. Mr President! For the sake of certainty, I would like to conclude by saying once again that the Finns of Peru warmly support the abolition of the adaptation pension scheme, but we do not want to increase the level of the adjustment allowance and facilitate the conditions for obtaining it from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u118	Congressman Östman, reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u119	Thank you, Madam Speaker! Yes, the Finns of Peru still justify their decision as to why they missed out on this joint agreement by not accepting the increase in the minimum amount of this adjustment money from EUR 1800 to EUR 2100. I wonder why you would have preferred it to be tied to that earnings-related basis because it would have been higher, around EUR 2400, instead of this EUR 2100. You must have tried to get the voters to understand your message and I think you succeeded in it, but I think it is a good thing that this matter is going through thoroughly. So you would rather have tied it to the earnings-related one, which would have meant that it would have increased by EUR 300. How do you explain this?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u120	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u121	Madam President! I am sure that this system has been confusing for many Members of Parliament, as well as for the citizens, and that is why we have taken the initiative here. Mr Elo, you said in that booth that you are paying taxes on your salary. First of all, we don't have a salary. It's a reward. And at least I get a tax-free allowance, for which I do not pay taxes, and it comes to it on the salary. So they don't know these terms, and they don't necessarily know what they're talking about. I think it is very important that, now that we are dealing with this here in Parliament, it is then so twisted from the line of questioning — whether it is there on the Parliament's website or where it is going — that the citizens also understand what the adaptation pension system of the MP is and how it is going to go forward. Yes, it is also — when you think that you work here instead of slacking off — that everyone has earned the reward or salary for the work done. And, of course, citizens are also entitled to give that critical feedback, and especially if they leave their work at a slightly lower level in order to do it, that feedback is also appropriate. But it is a good thing that these things are clarified and told in plain language to the citizens, as well as to all of us Members of Parliament, how these things are going to proceed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u122	Mr Laukkanen, I would like to respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u123	Madam President! We must now say to Mr Juvonen that the work of a Member of Parliament is perhaps different from that of the rest of the work, that when we come to this work, we are going to give ourselves up to a very special kind of publicity. We have little or no so-called normal protection for ourselves, but almost everything we do can be used in public, spoken for or against, and if we go to court and feel that it is unreasonable, we almost always lose. This work involves a great deal of pressure and expectations that do not involve any other work. Well, then, should we somehow, when we get out of here — we are here 10 years, 12 years — still get some lower compensation for this job if we do not succeed in getting another job, as I myself have come to this job directly from the unemployment fund? I do not quite understand your logic in this whole debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u124	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u125	Mr President! The Members' adaptation pension here in Parliament has spoken tremendously in that field. We Finns are the only parliamentary group that, however, had the backbone and the courage to protest about this reform and criticism of the adaptation pensions of MPs. Adaptation pensions are, in the opinion of Finns, an unreasonable benefit, and the indignation of people in this regard is more than justifiable. Unfortunately, however, we now find ourselves in a situation where other parties want to reform, also relying on some improvements in the interests of parliamentarians. This is not going to happen to us Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u128	Madam President! Referring to this speech by the previous speaker, Mrs Elomaa, where she suggested that only the Finns of Peru were abolishing the adaptation pension system: that is, all the parliamentary groups were behind its decision. Then, as a Member of Parliament, there should be no greater benefits than the citizens: After all, now that a Member of Parliament falls on this amount of adjustment allowance that has been agreed, the amount is lower than the earnings-related unemployment allowance offered by basic Finns. It is 300 euros lower. I wonder why you do not want to mention this and speak directly to the public that you would have preferred higher compensation than other parliamentary groups. This is how you would have liked it. You have also said that then without understanding, however, that the sum is higher than that which you have proposed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u133	Madam President! Mr Östman spoke wisely. And when the claim has been made here that the True Finns have never presented anything about earnings - related to former MPs, such as 8. December 2017 Aamulehti: ‘The former representatives should be entitled to benefit from the type of daily allowance as well as The chairman of your parliamentary group, Leena Meri. — If your group leader does not represent your position, you will certainly brush him carefully. Otherwise, I wonder what that position is, for example, when Mrs Elomaa said that this is not the case. Well, at least on the basis of what the group leader has said throughout this trip, it has been exactly the same. Representative Meri was in the negotiations, just like everyone else. That's why it's kind of strange to say that you're the only one who would have done something different than the others. You were in the same negotiations, the same tables. At the very last minute, on the lime lines came the announcement that your parliamentary group is not involved in this, where others are involved, and then you made it a public show, as expected. I remember when we negotiated this, that Mr Östman asked Mr Sea: do you mean that you would prefer, instead of the adjustment money, which we propose that the adjustment allowance should continue if capital income were taken into account, that is to say, to reduce the adjustment allowance in contrast to the earnings-related one, do you want a earnings-related one for former parliamentarians? And the sea said yes. And that's what he's been saying publicly in black and white. So if any position has changed in this respect for the Finns of Peru, then say it directly in this Chamber, in the hearing of all the people, that our position has changed, we do not agree with our group leader. But this has been your position throughout these negotiations.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u134	Then there is the reply, Mr Östman. Then let us go to the floor of Mr Savio.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u135	- Yeah, I'll keep going a little bit. — It was exactly as Mrs Elo said. I asked you this. When Mr Meri replied that, yes, they prefer to choose this earnings-related money, I next asked if you would understand that it is EUR 300 higher than this adjustment money that has now been presented. By then, it may be that there was a panic, but I wonder if the information had already gone out to the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u136	Mr President! There have now been several speakers here, including Mr Östman, who argued that the Finns of Finland demanded the introduction of earnings-related daily allowance. That is not the case. Under no circumstances have we presented it. Neither can we find that in our objection. On the other hand, Mr Meri has stated publicly that it would be good for parliamentarians to be subject to the same obligations as ordinary working people. It is also referred to by this term, ‘the type of earnings-related’, as has been cited here. Mr President! This earnings-related daily allowance did indeed arise in intergroup discussions or negotiations when the bill was discussed and it has to be acknowledged that there are elements in the earnings-related daily allowance that would have been positive in a certain way compared to this increase in the adjustment allowance. Among other things, the terms of the active model apply to ordinary working people. In situations where a person refuses to offer a job, there is a long gap — this could also have been considered for the fallen or abandoned MPs. The maximum duration of the adjustment allowance could also be three years, if there has been a long career here in Parliament. On the other hand, the duration of the earnings-related pension is only 400 days. These are the things that we thought seriously about in the negotiations, but, as has been said many times, we believe that the best option would have been clearly, and that is what we are proposing, that the duration and amount of the adjustment money should remain at the current level.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u137	Madam President! Mr Laukkanen said just now that there should be a benefit for parliamentarians similar to that for other people when they become unemployed, which apparently meant that this earnings-related model would also be for parliamentarians. Mr Östman had a completely different opinion. He said the same thing. Well, so much for this inconsistency. The position of the Finns on this issue today is quite clear. From the outset, we have demanded and wanted and we continue to demand and want to see the disproportionate benefits that some former Members of Parliament, who have been ministers of their last term of office in particular, are getting rid of. This is what is happening in accordance with this proposal, both the citizens' initiative and the legislative initiative, and we are fully involved in it. One part of this is that the system is being changed for the present Members of Parliament, for their part, who are missing for one reason or another. There are now eight parliamentary groups, i.e. all but the Finns of Finland, which we do not consider reasonable in this situation, when citizens are also in a very difficult position. We clearly want to insist that this is not the time to increase the benefits of absent or falling MPs. This is a completely unambiguous, perfectly clear line for the Finns of Peru. What has been said before the referral debate in the preparation of the matter does not in any way change our position now. Surely, then, each of us has had doubts about these systems that exist in this country. It's kind of natural. For example, there are a lot of details in pension systems that I do not know myself, although I have been dealing with them for 28 years. It's perfectly normal that we don't know everything. But the main line here is that we do not want to improve the position of the former parliamentarians in this situation, but we want to eliminate these excesses, which the people agree 100% with us on.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u138	Mr Laukkanen's reply first.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u139	Madam President! Mr Kankaanniemi is right in saying that we have a representative. Mr Östman already had a different view of this within our group. Our group discussed this system, and I personally believe that if we are to seek consistency with the people's comparative relationship with us, their income, their work space and so on, then we should go along with this earnings-related model. But the majority of our group felt that this debate and the model that emerged in connection with the group presidents of Parliament was better than the one I supported, so it then became the group's position. This model, Mr Kankaanniemi, was not here when the previous debate on this was held, in which I said that this model, which has now been presented, is otherwise unfair to all these former parliamentarians, who, for example, have still served as ministers and parliamentarians after their retirement. This is mistreating them, so it's not exactly a successful arrangement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u142	Madam President! I would just like to mention this once again, when we talk about earnings-related daily allowance, that the duration of this earnings-related relationship is now 400 days and this activity obligation is also attached to the earnings-related one. Our objection mentions this obligation of activity, and we feel that it is very important for it to be there. I think it is a good thing that this adaptation pension system now takes a new form. We are not against this law otherwise. There are some of the articles that we approve of. The only amendments here are these few. There are, of course, other things for the Members of Parliament in which they are, and I might think so, even in an unequal position. State workers can get leave from their own work and be here for a very long time as MPs and keep their jobs. It's a good thing there's something to go back to. But then there are also those professional groups in which you cannot keep your job. For example, I am one of those people, that is to say, I have been working here before Parliament in the care sector, and there was a situation where you could not put a so-called frozen office on the hat rack, but start again in May, if possible. But I think it is very important that Members of Parliament are active when they are also in Parliament. Personally, I've been working regularly in the care of the elderly, sticking my foot in the door already, that there's someone from the ship to go back to, because every career ends sometimes. And even when this season ends and possibly starts with other patterns of work, then it will be easier to land there and find that job, when a little bit of this sniffs and looks ahead of time at these things.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u143	Madam Speaker! Let me say once again that the basic Finnish line was the abolition of the adaptation pension in such a way that the amount of the adjustment allowance will not be increased. Here in Parliament, the parties from the right to the left have decided to increase the amount of the parliamentary allowance for adaptation. I think it is rather perverse in that this is a job in which these own benefits can be decided in this way at all. But all the other parties are behind this increase in the adjustment money, except for the Finns of Peru. Of course, it is not surprising that all the other parties in this situation now attacked the Finns, because this criticism naturally hit them in a particularly sensitive place. As far as I can see, even in the mainstream media this matter was translated against the Finns of Finland with different explanations, and as has been heard here in the Chamber, these explanations have been quite remarkable. There has been a public investigation of such issues in the negotiations, which are generally confidential in politics. It is rather unfortunate that here, then, the objectionable argument of the Finns of all other parties is based on some of the facts in these negotiations, because we representatives do not really have that detailed information here when there is not even a record of them. It has been claimed that we would have liked to have included a MP's earnings-related daily allowance, but it was never a question of that at any point in the discussion in the Finnish People's Party, but was intended to be placed in the same position with other employees because it would then be subject to an active model and pay employment pension contributions, and for other reasons. In other words, there are clearly also responsibilities that would follow if Members of Parliament were on the same line as employees. Why they did not want to bring a Member of Parliament into the active model is a question that can now be put to both the Sotonians and the Christian Democrats who were in this vote, following today's debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u144	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u145	Madam Speaker! Here we are dealing with a report that is very much in favour of a change of law, that is, the maximum penalty for sexual exploitation of a child would be increased from four to six years in prison and a new provision on aggravated child rape will be added to the criminal code. These are indeed good and worthwhile changes, but at the same time I find it regrettable that the proposals on the limitation periods for sexual offences against children have not progressed during this parliamentary term. After all, the child’s right to sexual abuse will now expire in ten years and gross acts in 20 years, but not before the victim’s 28th birthday. In practice, this means that serious rapes against young children can no longer be investigated after the victim’s mid-life. Sexual abuse, however, leaves the victim with permanent and severe traumas very typically, i.e. the consequences of abuse do not age. The victim has to carry them all his life. Sexual crimes against children are very typical that the victim, especially the young child, is unable to defend himself, even mentally, but may experience responsibility and guilt and shame at the event, while the guilty person may explain matters to himself in a very favorable way. For this reason, these crimes may only surface in later stages of life, for example through their own parenthood. It is true that it is difficult to solve crimes that have taken place several decades ago, and it requires strong evidence, and it must indeed be taken seriously in the rule of law, but there are situations in which a person may even confess his own crimes and may find that strong evidence and witnesses and still no longer be able to settle the matter in court. I think that this is important, above all, for the victim, but also for the legal protection of the suspect, that matters can be settled in court. Then it must be remembered that a just judgment, the settling of the matter, also contributes to the recovery of the victim from his experience. Very many report that only when a court decision has been reached as to who was responsible for these events can the recovery begin. I hope that the next government and parliament will take care of this matter, that these periods of aging will be eliminated, especially in the case of gross child rape.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u146	Madam President! This proposal proposes an increase in the maximum penalty for sexual abuse of a child from four to six years, and a new provision on punishment for aggravated child rape. Madam President! I must say, I am extremely disappointed. I am disappointed that this proposal did not address the issue of raising minimum penalties. In 2012 and 2015, I have taken legislative initiatives that have collected the signatures of more than 100 MPs, i.e. long-term work to ensure that the minimum penalties for serious sexual crimes against children are more than two years in prison. It would then mean that it is not a conditional judgment but an absolute one. As I have said in many of my speeches here today, I do see that fear is the only way to prevent these serious sexual crimes, the victims of which are children who are unable to defend themselves. In my opinion, a child is like a glass vessel, and once it is broken, it will never be put together again. And in that sense I regret that I saw a fundamental issue and what has also been put forward by the citizens' initiative in connection with the hardening of judgments, and I think that there was this hardening of the minimum penalty, which is not going to happen this time. I understand that this is also due to the fact that there has been congestion in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that this is possibly the reason. But I also feel that when things are prolonged, when decisions are taken in politics either by haste or by slow-tracking, i.e. by prolonging and tiring, then I find it strange that the season ends, and this is the size of the matter that has been brought to the last metres. Why didn't they bring you here before? The citizens' initiative came as well as whether, as I remember, 2015, at least my own legislative initiative came then, that is to say, the whole period has been waiting to be dealt with. In the meantime, there has been a legal investigation. It was expected for a very long time, and at the end of the day it was a rather mild comfort to the content that came out of it. But it doesn't stop here. We'll tie the shoelaces and then we'll keep running next season. You, who are here, take legal initiatives and demand that minimum penalties be increased, because fear is the only right way to end these serious crimes in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-12-ps-175.u147	Madam Speaker! It has consistently been the Finnish people's line to increase Finland's penalties, especially those for sexual crimes against children. This is where the other parties are in the run-up to the elections and also after the events in Oulu have come to the Finnish people more clearly, which I am very happy about. As a parliamentary statement, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights put forward here that Parliament would require the future government to tighten up the penalties for sexual crimes against children. The reason why Mrs Juvonen asked why this matter has not been dealt with, when she too has taken over 100 signatures from the beginning, is simple: the Sipilä Government did not make a proposal. Now, in connection with this motion, this minimum punishment for sexual abuse of a child could no longer be carried out. In this context, it did not work. It involves this constitutional reality in which we live and the urgency of the constitutional light. The Finns Party really hope that the next government will do as the Parliament is proposing here and indeed will review the entire Chapter 20 of the Penal Code. It also involves investments, even financially, because Finland's prison capacity needs to be increased.
