ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u1	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u2	Mr President! The national data reserve for early childhood education VARDA has been introduced at the beginning of 2019. This is laid down in the Act on Early Childhood Education. The VARDA database enables more extensive and efficient access to early childhood education information for different actors. This makes the information more complete and up-to-date. On the basis of this information, the development and decision-making of early childhood education will be promoted, statistics and studies will be made on early childhood education and the tasks of the authorities will be carried out. The Act on Early Education obliges municipalities and joint municipal authorities as well as private providers of early childhood education to record data. The National Board of Education is responsible for maintaining the information reserve. Mr President! Information on early childhood education actors, establishments and children in early childhood education has already been stored in VARDA. The operation has therefore started well and, at this stage, data on 290 organisers, 6222 sites and 232,000 children have been stored in this database. In VARDA, data on guardians of children in early childhood education will also be stored from 1.9.2019. The aim was for the data on early childhood education staff of all municipalities and joint municipal boards to be recorded in VARDA for this reason. However, the introduction of the data reserve cannot be carried out within the time frame laid down by law in relation to the personnel data of early childhood education. The timetable for the implementation of human resources data is subject to considerable IT challenges. There is currently too little time for data resource integration, testing and the compatibility of data content between municipalities, joint municipal boards and their system suppliers, and this may also pose a risk to the data protection of people and early education customers and operators. Mr President! For this reason, the purpose of this bill is to provide that the transfer of data on the personnel of municipalities and joint municipal boards takes up an additional one year in order to ensure the data transfer capacity. The proposal would therefore allow the municipalities sufficient time to prepare carefully for the introduction of the information system and facilitate the implementation of the information system integrations under their responsibility. Tens of different information systems for hundreds of independent operators as a whole of a particularly large system are aimed at providing information in line with a harmonised data model, which therefore requires flexibility in regulating the entry into force. A policy-based solution would be to provide for a more precise timetable for the deployment of information groups not yet included in VARDA by Government decree. However, the VARDA information system should be in its original timetable, i.e. at the end of 2020, to a full extent for both municipalities and private service providers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u3	Mr President! Minister, ladies and gentlemen and others present! Mr Andersson presented this proposal by the government in the referral debate today, which is therefore a very technical proposal which proposes to amend the transitional rule governing the introduction of the knowledge reserve for early childhood education and a few other minor technical issues for early childhood education. The new government that has begun its work has set out good things for early childhood education, and yes, early childhood education is actually the most effective way to influence the learning path of our children and, for example, to tackle problems that can be detected there early in the learning process. And I welcome the fact that the government is continuing the work of free part-time early childhood education started during the last term of government and expanding it further. I also welcome the piloting of a two-year preschool. That is also what the coalition has been moving forward. In fact, I would like to ask the Minister what timetable the government is planning to pilot this two-year pre-school education and, on the other hand, what kind of appropriation is being made for the project and how that pilot will be carried out. But good early childhood education is not done without skilled early childhood educators. We have a good, long tradition that teachers are also educated in early childhood education, and I welcome the fact that the government has recorded that early childhood education is guaranteed throughout the country and, on the other hand, the amount of education is also strengthened. Universities have expressed concern that the Government Programme proposes to increase the starting points for higher education but, on the other hand, no funding has been allocated to it. Helsingin Sanomat stated that an even bigger difference in appropriations is the increase in starting places for higher education institutions and that the Ministry of Education already proposed a total of EUR 40 million for next year, while the Ministry of Finance's proposal is round zero. And now, Mr President, when the Minister is here, I would like to ask whether the government intends to increase the number of university-level early childhood education teachers in the next financial period and how much. And I would also like to ask whether there is any money for this, because today, Prime Minister Rinne has said that there is no money for, for example, a binding carer's measure, which means that 0.7 is not coming this season, and it does not seem to be the case that there are no nurses for that, but that Prime Minister Rinne has said that now the money is out. So, Minister for Education, is there a budget for this increase in the education of teachers in early childhood education, and how much?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u4	I would like to draw the speakers' attention to the fact that this is a transitional provision. The fact that in the referral debate a few sessions ago, when Posti was mentioned in the title, I allowed a topical debate on the subject, had its own reasons, but this time we are discussing this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u5	Mr President! This proposal itself is of a technical nature and, for the reasons set out, a slight shift in this timetable for deployment is certainly well-founded. It is essential to maintain the objective of strengthening the common knowledge base. I think that one of the key issues in the services of children and young people is that there is a common knowledge base, even more widely than in this service. Mr President, if you will allow me, I would also have asked just a few general questions about early childhood education: at the initiative of the previous government, the Minister for Education and Culture launched an experiment on this free 20-week period of early education for children aged 5 years, which was allocated EUR 5 million in 2018 and 2019, and in the spring 2018 framework negotiations it was agreed that this would be extended from 2019 to 2020 and it was also allocated 5 million, and now, in September, the National Education Evaluation Centre, Karvi, published an evaluation of this first phase, that the participation of children aged 5 increased more in pilot municipalities than in comparison municipalities. There are good guidelines on this in the Government Programme, as mentioned in the previous speech: to extend the free part-time early childhood education of the five-year-olds and to pursue long-term progress towards part-time free early childhood education. And I would have asked the Minister in this regard: what is the government going to do to increase the participation rate in early childhood education, how are we going to continue this experiment of free part-time early childhood education for five-year-olds, and how are we going to pilot two-year pre-school education? But, Mr President, on the whole, I welcome the fact that the government is promoting the objective of two years of pre-school education, as has been suggested by the Assembly in the past. Pre-school education is a well-known and proven way of facilitating the way for children to start school. By extending pre-school education for two years, the status and equality of children will improve. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u6	The Minister may comment on these questions raised through donkey bridges at a later stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u7	Mr President! As has been pointed out here, the proposal therefore proposes to amend the transitional rule governing the introduction of the data reserve for early childhood education. The data reserve contains data describing the producer and establishment of early childhood education, data on the personnel in early childhood education and data on the child and the child’s guardian. The information resource for early childhood education has therefore been set up to improve the record keeping and the data protection and security associated with it, including the harmonisation of data collection, quality and statistics, and to reduce duplication of administrative work. The starting point for the data reserve is therefore quite welcome. It brings together a very fragmented data collection system. At the beginning of 19 a risk assessment on deployment was carried out. According to the risk assessment, the implementation of personnel data from 1 September 2019 will be subject to significant challenges, i.e. making, testing and implementing content in municipalities, joint municipal authorities and the suppliers of these systems will have too little time. This assessment therefore presents considerable risks. Then it is wise to react. As Minister Andersson said, in view of the uncertainties identified in the data reserve, such as the diversity of the stock of systems, the fragmentation of the personnel data of early childhood education in municipalities and the compatibility problems of information systems, it is quite legitimate that the application rule on the national data reserve for early childhood education should be amended so as to provide for the beginning of the retention responsibility in the future by means of a Government decree. Mr President! The regulation would be a more flexible way of taking into account possible unforeseen factors that could affect the implementation of the information system and hence the entire data resource. It is also essential to note that the proposed provision is precise and only includes the setting of the date of the start of the recording responsibility. We are therefore not making any substantive changes here. The transfer of staff data by one year will enable better guidance and more systematic preparation, testing and implementation of the data reserve for providers and system providers of early childhood education. So, not in a hurry to prepare the wolf and the second, but in a hurry to prepare the prime. Mr President! Again, it is essential — and this should be borne in mind in further preparation — that information resources should serve the sector and should be for the benefit of operators, not a burden. In the case of municipalities and joint municipal boards, it should serve in such a way that the obligations are streamlined and eased. It should also serve a grassroots actor, i.e. early childhood education staff, so that they can concentrate with all their energy on basic work, i.e. to meet the children in time. The root level does not need an administrative burden, but time for nuclear work. Therefore, clear thinking is needed in this area too, not to the detriment of the industry, but to the benefit of the industry. This revenue angle should also be taken into account for the application of the data reserve.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u8	Mr President! This government proposal deals with themes that I love very much, namely early childhood education, knowledge management and, above all, participation, which I also raise to this as one form of information, expert information. The proposal proposes to change the timetable for the introduction of the knowledge reserve for early childhood education. As the Minister of Value pointed out, the introduction of early childhood education data cannot be carried out within the time frame laid down by law. This is a huge pity for the collection of information, but the necessity in this situation so that municipalities do not become unduly burdened in the midst of change. In my view, transferring data storage by one year will reduce manual storage, i.e. the time and costs involved in the change in this case. I very much welcome this government proposal. In the midst of a hurry, the most important cornerstone of knowledge management is generally forgotten: the quality of knowledge. Ensuring quality requires time and a commonly agreed change in the operating culture, common rules of play. It would be good if we in Parliament were to pay more attention to the extent to which the revolution in information management is creating jobs for early-school educators, teachers, managers, experts, a wide range of professionals. Care must be taken to ensure that collecting information is not a main job and caring for the welfare of children as a secondary job. What is necessary information? Where's the limit of extra information? Similarly, we easily forget information when collecting the children themselves and their needs. The Convention on the Rights of the Child underscores the right of the child to be heard and the obligation of adults to take the child’s perspective into account. This is the necessary information when we assess, for example, the quality of early childhood education, as defined in this Government Programme. Is VARDA in the future a system that can also contribute to the storage of qualitative information? The child’s views must be taken into account regardless of age and level of development. A child has the right to express his/her opinion freely, whether he/she is able to use a computer or whether he/she is able to speak the language or the ability to speak it out loud. Therefore, the Government Programme has also stated that the Government will examine the need to update the legislation on early childhood education in line with, among other things, the Sign Language Act and the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I am also concerned about the fragmentation of information on children, and this government proposal does not yet provide a complete solution. I would like the Minister of State to open up a little how, in future, we could also use this VARDA to get this information moving so that the social, health and education sectors and, for example, employment information could be found in some way behind a common interface. It is only in this way that we can get the success of the last reign, the programme for the transformation of child and family services, which is now being pursued properly, so that we have comprehensive knowledge of our children and young people. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u9	Mr President! The draft law on the information reserve for early childhood education is to be welcomed. It is important that the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media go through this thoroughly, of course. When it comes to early childhood education, it is perhaps one of the most important investments of the nation. A report by Mr Karvin, the Education Evaluation Centre, has just appeared, pointing out that this chronic long-term shortage of early childhood education teachers is already evident in the quality of early childhood education. The previous government wisely invests 28 million in early childhood education teachers’ starting positions. In the past, Parliament has increased its budget several times. Now the question is: what is the government doing that now bears responsibility for the quality of early childhood education? I very much hope that the Minister for Education will answer: will you fight with the Minister for Finance, who showed a total zero for early childhood education and other starting points for higher education, or will you say, as Prime Minister Rinne said, that there is no more money for nursery or doctors? One more question: We have a teacher data collection in which there have not yet been teachers of early childhood education. Are you going to make a survey of how many teachers we actually have in early childhood education, and include early childhood education teachers in this already valid teacher data collection, so that we can have comprehensive information on the number of teachers throughout Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u10	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for your presentation. There has already been provision for the storage of early childhood education data, but now a little more time is needed to record the data. This proposal has been very welcome, because, just as the Minister said, there are both information technology and many other issues here, and I agree with what has been said here that it is worth doing this properly. However, even if I say that there have been terribly positive comments on this, it is nevertheless considered problematic in this proposal that Article 76(2) of the law in force should be amended so that the recording obligations will be regulated by a Government decree in the future. I have wondered whether this is sensible or not — and I am pleased that the Council of Presidents has just concluded that this will also be sent to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I say this as chairman of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media that it is good to use it there in the Constitutional Committee in order to see whether it is compatible with the Constitution. I personally consider it a little problematic to give the power to adopt a regulation — we do not know what all that regulation can do. That is why I hope that this obligation and right to adopt a regulation will be removed from it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u11	Mr President! Indeed, as has been said many times here, this amendment to the transitional provision is fully justified and to be welcomed. In itself, it is very important that the knowledge base of early childhood education should be further developed and harmonised as a result of a legislative amendment already made in the last period. This is very well-founded not only from the point of view of knowledge but also from the point of view of research, so that we know more about what is happening in our early childhood education and how it is further strengthened. There has already been a call here to increase the participation rate in early childhood education, and I hope that the Minister will have the opportunity to respond. In fact, this is not only a change in the transitional provision, but also a proposal for an extension of the right to adopt a regulation, and even if the other aspects of this legislative amendment are of a technical nature, it is therefore a question of whether, as it were, Parliament will then be able, in the future, if necessary, to re-establish the validity of the law, so to speak, to extend the transitional period further. It is a very good thing that the chairman of the committee has raised the point that we are now going to examine in depth whether or not there are grounds for this House to bypass, or whether we are going to go according to the fact that, if there is a need for such a change in the transitional provision in the future, it would then be used through Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u12	Mr President! I would also like to thank the Minister for his presentation. I really need this show. Many previous speeches have already taken words out of their mouth, but early childhood education can never be discussed too much, and many speeches have already praised Finnish early childhood education and for a reason. Finnish early childhood education is of very high quality, but despite this, Finnish children participate significantly less in early childhood education than other Nordic children and also less in other OECD countries. This question has already been raised here about the plans the government has for raising the early childhood education rate, and I would like to hear the answer myself.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u13	Mr President! This information reserve was already provided for in the new early childhood education law last season, and I would like to thank the Minister not only for the good cooperation but also for the fact that the new government has gone ahead with implementing and taking forward the new law. Surely this technical transition period is necessary in order to succeed in implementing VARDA. It collects information on children, establishments and staff in early childhood education for us, and this lack of information has caused problems in the planning and development of early childhood education in the past. One aspect of this is the participation rate of early childhood education, from which we have just received new information in the OECD comparison, according to which we have already done good work in the long term for several years, that the participation rate of early childhood education has risen in Finland in recent years. However, we are still at the bottom, if you can say so, in early childhood education when compared with other OECD countries and, for example, other Nordic countries. Therefore, raising the participation rate must be a key priority, as early childhood education has a proven preventive effect and strengthens educational equality and is in the best interests of the child, as the new law on early childhood education provides. There would therefore be three questions for the new government: The first relates to the free early childhood education experiment for 5 year olds, in which almost one third of all 5 year olds participated in the last phase. I am concerned that there is no mention of this in the new budget proposal from the Ministry of Finance, nor the euro for the continuation of the early childhood education experiment, and I therefore hope that this would be something that the government could still correct and continue to experiment with early childhood education for five-year-olds free of charge. It's a big welcome for families and an important perspective. Personally, I think it would be worth developing it in the direction to which the experiment has already taken us this year, that is, towards two years of pre-school education, and that is another question I would have to ask. So why is the government not conducting two years of preschool education? It could be funded by the government's programme, for example by implementing this two-year pre-school education instead of extending compulsory education, because we have research evidence that strongly demonstrates that investment in early years is the strongest and that education equality is the strongest. So would it be appropriate for the government to reconsider this matter and instead of extending compulsory education from above, to carry out two years of pre-school education, thereby strengthening the long-term equality of children? The third aspect to which VARDA, of course, also provides us with more information is this question of staff. After all, the new Act on early childhood education made a strong contribution to the quality of early childhood education by investing in the competence of the personnel, which means that in future we will have two thirds of adults who are highly educated in early childhood education. In what way does the government intend to secure the number of teachers in early childhood education? During the last term of government, we raised the level of education by a third during the contract negotiations permanently with the universities and then with the separate funding decided upon by the government. In the government programme, I cannot find a record of the euro being earmarked for this expansion or for increasing the level of education, but is it perhaps planned or is it about to happen? And how will the government ensure that teachers in early childhood education are adequately trained to implement the law and to strengthen educational equality in Finland next spring? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u14	I will give the floor to Mr Räsänen and then to the Minister within this half hour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u15	Thank you, Mr President! The introduction of the recording of personnel data in early childhood education will therefore be postponed by one year, and the Minister gave a very understandable justification for this. I also consider the point raised by the chairman of the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy to be justified, so it is indeed a good thing that this power to adopt a regulation is being dealt with in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But there has also been a debate here, Mr President, on the number of early childhood education and two-year pre-school education, both of which are important issues. However, in my opinion, the main problem with the whole of early childhood education is precisely what was unfortunately weakened during the last term of government, namely the human resources dimension of early childhood education. Now that the Minister here is answering other questions, I ask: what is the timetable for the correction of this staffing, and is it certain that the money for that is not over, as is the case with this carer?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u16	Thank you very much for the good questions. It is easy to agree with Mr Pelkonen that early childhood education can never be discussed too much. First of all, this government will continue and will extend the experiments of five-year-olds on free early childhood education and pilot two-year pre-school education. These are to be implemented within the framework of the development of quality and equality in early childhood education, which will start next year and will be for a period of three years. Funding for this development project will be closed in the budget debate, that is to say, the euro will also become visible. But this is planned and will happen. By the way, how does the government want to continue the work that has been done in Finland and what absolutely must be done in Finland to increase the participation rate in early childhood education? As has been heard, it is not only important from the point of view of social equality and well-being, but it also provides a basis for later learning of children when school begins. The first measure is to restore the subjective right to day care and to change group sizes so that the ratio of one parent to seven children aged over 3 years is restored. There this target timetable is such that it will come into force from the beginning of August next year, and everything is in order with regard to funding. Then, in order to increase the participation rate, the work that has been done to improve the quality of early childhood education must also be continued. Among other things, the new reports from the Education Evaluation Centre have highlighted the development of pedagogy. In other words, while investing in free early childhood education for five-year-olds and discussing the extension of pre-school education, we must also ensure that the educational content is at the level that it should be so that we can secure high-quality early childhood education for all children. Then, with regard to the permanent change in the extension of pre-school education, the Government negotiations have agreed that compulsory education will be extended to 18 years of age and then piloting will be carried out for two years of pre-school education, as well as extensive research into what it would require in practice, i.e. extending pre-school education to two years in a country such as Finland. That would mean changes in staff needs, in terms of facilities, in the finances of municipalities and so on, so, at least personally, I do not see that this would be a change that could be achieved in the very short term. But the work that needs to be done so that decisions can then be taken, if we want to do so, during this parliamentary term. Then, as far as starting positions are concerned, according to this division of government, starting places and science policy belong to my colleague, Hanna Kosonen, who will certainly come back to starting places and training kindergarten teachers. Mr Risikko also raised the issue of this right to adopt a regulation. I personally trust that Parliament will help to clarify it as it should and, if necessary, the Ministry will, of course, be prepared, in cooperation with the committee, to correct the bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u17	Thank you. — The fact that the President reminds us that the contributions to be made must focus on the substance of the matter is primarily aimed at giving the matter itself the attention it deserves. That is why, after a good speech by Mr Heinonen, for example, I did not allow a round of replies because half an hour would have gone into this general debate. This transitional rule was now discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u18	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u19	We will now resume the debate on item 4 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u20	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u21	Mr President! It is excellent that this proposal has arrived in Parliament so quickly. The proposal is important for the Social Democrats and we have been in favour of an increase in affordable housing production, and it is also of particular importance for us to ensure that special groups have adequate housing levels and housing levels. The Government's proposal will, if implemented, increase affordable housing production, which means, above all, an increase in the number of student and youth housing. The proposal states that the lowest aid category for the ARA investment grant for specific groups is to be increased from 10% to 15% in accordance with the Government Programme. The need for this change has been investigated. The studies conducted by the Ministry of the Environment show that the majority of young people and students live in non-subsidised rental dwellings in Finland. Only about one third of university students and about one fifth of polytechnic students live in special student housing. Only 2 per cent of all young people live in separate youth housing. In particular, a large part of the housing expenditure of students and young people living in their own dwelling is spent on rent. According to studies, high rent levels in growth centres make life difficult for students and other young people. For example, they have to compromise more than the rest of the population. Eighty per cent of all young people have had to compromise on other basic daily expenses in order to cope with housing costs. This has meant an increase in working time, which contributes to the extension of study time for many. Mr President! The rent level should not have a decisive impact on the quality of living in the study place. 46 percent of young people have had to compromise other lives to cope with their housing expenses. 45 percent have had to work alongside their studies, and 41 percent have had to rely on relatives to help them. More housing is also needed because the needs of students regarding housing have changed. Students want to live more alone, which has increased the need for student studios. In addition to the general social trend, this has been influenced by the change in the housing allowance system in 2017. At that time, students were transferred from the housing allowance of a separate student allowance to receive general housing allowance. With the change, living in a studio is practically the same price as living in a cell apartment for students. This has naturally reduced the demand for cells. It is therefore good that, with the strengthening of this proposal, it will be possible to build more housing in line with student demand. Mr President! This proposal will also have an impact on youth housing. Adequate provision of affordable housing can prevent social exclusion and homelessness among young people, and it is estimated that further provision of youth housing is needed. The number of young people is expected to increase in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area and its spending limits and in the Tampere region. The non-subsidised rental housing market is strained in these areas, and opportunities for young people to obtain housing from the state-subsidised standard rental housing stock have also deteriorated. Youth housing in these areas should therefore be supported. Finally, I would like to emphasise that investment aid is a form of aid that has a proven impact. A study commissioned by the Ministry of the Environment concludes that the effectiveness of the housing system is significant. Ninety per cent of the stakeholders consulted for the survey considered that without the grant, similar housing would not have been built or prices would have been more expensive for similar solutions than housing costs. Thank you, then, to the Minister and the Ministry for this proposal and for the rapid preparation. This is the type of proposal we really need.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u22	Mr President! With this bill, the housing policy guidelines of the Government Programme are beginning to become reality. By raising the lowest aid category for investment grants for special groups from 10% to 15%, we are speeding up the construction of student and youth housing, and they really come in need. It is important that the legislative amendment is brought into force as soon as possible. There is a risk that when the increase in the grant is now known and registered in the Government Programme, student housing communities will wait for it with their projects. If, as I hope, Parliament deals quickly with the proposal, it could come into force from the beginning of November. Mr President! Grants in the lowest aid category mainly finance the construction and repair of student and youth housing. The increase in the grant is of great importance because in practice all student housing in Finland is made by state-subsidised loans and investment grants. EUR 17 million was allocated to ARA's investment grant for student housing in 2018. It is used to build 1,000 new dwellings and to renovate 1,150 apartments. The share of student dwellings of grants was 23 per cent and 61 per cent. With grants from 2005 to 2013, 8500 student dwellings were started. According to ARA, in the capital region alone, the number of student housing units should be increased by at least 6,000 in the next ten years to meet demand. The housing situation of students is weak in several university cities. The situation in the capital region is particularly difficult. Apartments at affordable prices are not available to everyone who needs them. Only one-third of university students live in student housing and about one-fifth of polytechnic students. The majority of students live in flats rented on the free market, whose rents are high due to high demand. For many students, the guaranteed rents of thousands of euros on the free market are overwhelming. The transfer of students from the housing allowance to the general housing allowance has increased the income level of many students, but there are also many students who, for example, are completely deprived of housing allowance due to their spouse's income. Mr President! The higher investment grant in accordance with the bill reduces the financial expenses of the housing subject, which is visible to the student as a lower rent. The cost of state housing allowance will decrease if more and more students are allowed to live in a low-cost student housing. And the greater the number of students living in student housing, the more free market housing is released to others who need it. In the capital region, the situation is that not all students find any housing within the limits of their ability to pay, within reasonable transport connections from the study place. Moving many young adults out of a childhood home is delayed when the need for a home is not considered urgent. Among students, the highest demand is for low-cost studios. There has been some public debate as to why cellular housing is not suitable for students. It is natural that a grown person prefers to have his own home or a group of people he chooses, and even other deprived groups of people today do not offer cell housing as the primary solution. A home with study peace promotes the student's well-being and the completion of studies on time. Increasing the number of student housing will ease the housing shortage of students and young people while improving the financial conditions for full-time studies. It must also be remembered that some of the students are family. In other words, there is a need not only for studios but also for larger student housing. Mr President! The investment grant for special groups also finances youth housing for young adults aged 18 to 29 who are in work or who are seeking employment. It is therefore important that in the future there will be more housing for young people, such as those built by operators such as the Youth Housing Association or Y-Säätio. Migration is a major change in life in which support is needed for many young people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u23	Mr President! Housing is a fundamental human right and the goal of housing policy must be to guarantee affordable and high-quality housing for all. Especially in the capital region and other growing urban areas, the cost of living and the inadequacy of housing make life difficult for people. For many, living takes far too much of the income. In the Government Programme, we stated that there was a desire to reduce the price of housing. This is also the long-term objective of the Left Alliance. This government proposal is the first concrete step in that direction this season, and it is a good thing. In particular, the bill will improve the position of young people and students in the housing market, which is important. Today’s young people grow and become independent in a world that is in many ways more difficult and uncertain than before. It is up to us politicians to create hope for a better tomorrow for young people and to create a framework for them to start their own independent lives without any additional fear of the future. It is young people, students and other special groups that need not only market-based construction but also state-subsidised housing construction. The market is unable to implement goal-oriented housing policy plans and guidance aimed at guaranteeing quality housing for all, regardless of the starting point of life. Currently, the majority of independent young people aged 18-29 live on rent, and in the capital region the share is up to four fifths. Most live in non-subsidised rental dwellings. For example, only one-third of university students live in student housing and only one-fifth of polytechnic students because there are no more affordable student housing for all. According to studies, high rent levels in growth centres weaken the socio-economic position of students and young people and extend study periods, which, of course, also makes access to the labour force more difficult. Youth and student housing is particularly needed in growth centres and spending limits municipalities. According to studies commissioned by the Ministry of the Environment, investment aid has been found to be an effective aid to increase the production of affordable and high-quality housing for special groups such as young people and students. A higher investment grant also reduces the financing costs of the target and thus reduces the rents charged to the resident of the target, which at the same time reduces the central government housing allowance costs. Particular attention should also be paid to providing adequate support for the housing of the most vulnerable young people, such as after-care clients. In addition, it is important to monitor the adequacy of investment grants in order to ensure a fair level playing field in housing needs for all specific groups. In opinions on the proposal, inter alia, the Association of Local and Regional Authorities highlights the possibility of using the lowest aid category for investment grants to increase the supply of housing for older people, such as senior houses. There is a need for them too, because pensioners, like students, have very low incomes. At the moment it is perverse that we spend many times more money on housing support than on the production of affordable housing. It would be better to spend money on the production of low-cost housing than to support the owners of housing housing through housing support. The benefits of subsidised construction are not limited to social progress, but investment aid can also have indirect climate impacts when energy efficiency starts to be promoted in the context of basic improvements. Deprived buildings will be introduced, and student housing will be built along good public transport connections. Without coordination of public authorities, housing construction cannot be carried out that guarantees the quality and price of the construction that is also earned by low-income and fragile residents. The government's proposal takes housing policy in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u24	Mr President! The Government's proposal for a law on assistance to improve housing conditions for special groups is very timely and very important. This law seeks to increase this grant rate from 10% to 15% of eligible construction, procurement and basic improvement costs. The target groups here are young people and special groups. Finns must constantly remember that in this country we have experienced such an unpleasant phenomenon as other mild phenomena caused by lack of homelessness and housing, such as absurd rents and such phenomena, which burden these special groups a great deal and are, for example, a hopelessly high expense for students in relation to low incomes. This excellent government proposal quickly came to Parliament, it was prepared quickly. Today, in the preliminary hearing of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection — which was already the subject of a hearing today — the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection stated that when the law was in the consultation, an expert at the Ministry of the Environment found that he rarely, during his long career as a civil servant, witnessed a bill in which feedback, statements made, was very positive. Of course, the opinion of the Ministry of Finance understands: the role of the chest guard is always tight, and the Ministry of Finance strives for that great economy. Of course, there were little doubts as to how money would be spent and so on. It is part of the role of the Ministry of Finance to be precise and economical, but in other respects this was also a positive statement in the main. All the statements were in favour of making rapid progress on this issue and bringing the law into force quickly. To this end, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has already taken this for a preliminary hearing today. Let us then try to prepare a report on this as quickly as possible, so that, for us, this issue will certainly not remain on the table. It is important to note, however, that when we live between cyclical fluctuations, there is sometimes an upturn and sometimes a downturn. With these aid rates, it is clear that some of these prices also creep into the prices of dwellings. If you support living in a region such as the capital region, where there is a huge demand for housing, then unfortunately it will also be reflected in prices, if not directly in trade prices, then the rents will show up, that is clear. This is a phenomenon that we must be aware of and that cities and municipalities, through their own zoning policy, are trying to organise things in such a way that plots are available and that it is possible to promote and implement the low-cost housing production in the region. And this current government proposal on the table is precisely to this end and is very much to be welcomed, and I hope that it will be dealt with quickly and quickly in this House.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u25	Mr President! This is a very positive proposal and, of course, it is also part of the government programme, which is a very good whole in terms of housing. It was a pleasure to be involved in the negotiations on housing policy as a whole, and the fact that this entry in the Government Programme also takes very strongly into account the unanimous guidelines of the previous government for the report by the Audit Committee, which highlights very strongly, among other things, the right to affordable housing. This proposal will contribute to an increase in affordable housing production in this case, particularly in the case of student and youth housing, which is very necessary and good, as we have heard in several speeches. The representative screams well at the beginning of the film. All in all, Mr President, I would like to emphasise this programme of government: the fact that this important entry was submitted, which was unanimously approved during the last parliamentary term, that the State Housing Fund will continue to be used as an independent fund for its original purpose, the safeguarding of affordable homes, makes it possible to find these very positive solutions in order to improve opportunities for, among other things, student and youth housing. There has also been a desire here in history to put the whole housing fund under the general budget, and then, Mr President, it would be much more difficult to achieve these objectives. In this Government Programme, this proposal will contribute to making more affordable housing production possible. Similarly, the programme includes a number of entries to improve the conditions for affordable housing production. For example, this start-up grant will also be extended to other MAL regions, while at the moment it is only in the capital region, and this may also help to increase the opportunities for students to live there in Tampere, for example. [The President :2 minutes have passed!]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u26	I'm sorry. The President has old rules in his memory.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u27	Mr President! A well-functioning and successful housing policy is crucial for individuals and families. The price of living in the largest cities, whether in owner-occupied housing or in rented housing, has gone out of hand. We would get along much better if living were more affordable. The biggest responsibility, the biggest role for municipalities is, of course, through zoning, in order to make sufficient land planning, but housing alone is not enough to solve this problem. What is also essential is what is being built, who is being handed over the plots, how many plots are being handed over to affordable rental housing. Mr President! This presentation improves the opportunities to build rental housing for students and young people. The rents pay all the costs of living, both the cost of capital and the cost of care, but cannot be taken between them. This is the essential thing that makes prices appear at a lower level. The problem has long been that these privately-subsidised ARA-loaned apartments are no longer built by much other than cities and municipalities. In the past, communities of general interest have withdrawn, as many families, many people have experienced a bitter increase in rents. Mr President! This also has an economic significance. It is estimated that approximately EUR 2000 million will have to be paid every year for housing allowance. The solution is not to cut the housing allowance, because then people would be in worse trouble, but the solution is to create opportunities to live in cheaper, affordable rental dwellings. Previously, affordable rental dwellings were offered by VVO, the current Kojamo, and Sato, but both have withdrawn from the affordable rental housing market. This has led to a situation in which this housing allowance paid from our tax assets will flow from VVO to pension companies, trade unions, for Sato outside Finland's borders. The main owner of Sato is Fastighets AB Balder, billionaire Erik Selin, who benefits financially in Sweden from the fact that our housing policy does not work. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the government programme strongly included the fact that we are going to increase affordable ARA mortgaged housing production and the terms of the ARA loans are such as to encourage them to build. What is relevant here is that as long as the dwelling is covered by the ARA loan terms, it cannot be drawn from it, but the rents will be self-paid. Now, this proposal, which I hope will quickly go through in Parliament — and I do not think there are any obstacles to it, because hardly anyone is opposed to us trying to produce more affordable rental housing for students and young people — is a first step. We need more of these measures and a new approach to Parliament's housing policy, with which we take care of affordable housing for families, ordinary people, but at the same time we also take care, in a national economy, of not having to pay so much housing subsidies to private owners in the future. This is a very good proposal, and I hope that we will all be able to support this type of proposal here in Parliament, which I hope we will all be able to support together. More affordable housing for people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u28	Mr President! An increase in the number of affordable student and youth housing will certainly be necessary. For example, the rental housing situation in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area is very difficult, and it is also very much felt in the everyday life and purse of students. Students are already under pressure in terms of their livelihoods, and the cuts in student support and education over the past few years have made the situation even more acute. The transition of students to general housing allowance facilitates the situation of many, while it has created new problems for some. Equally, affordable student housing is one of the most important ways to support students and help them focus on their studies. Student housing is especially needed in the immediate vicinity of campuses and access to good public transport connections. Good location helps to keep house prices under control when parking places are less needed than usual. According to the Helsinki Region Student Housing Foundation, the impact of a parking space built in Kallio, for example, can be more than hundreds of euros per apartment. To put it mildly, this is a salty price for a service that most students do not need and which eats up a lion’s share of the disposable income. The role of municipalities in zoning and, in many cases, in handing over plots is extremely important here and in achieving the objectives of this law. Mr President! Homelessness has been successfully reduced in Finland. This has required long-term work and political will. Work to eliminate homelessness should continue until no one has to sleep on the street. Increasing the number of student and youth housing is an important step towards eliminating homelessness. Homelessness is rarely the only problem in a homeless person’s life. Of course, the most sustainable solution would be to address and provide support for the cumulative problems before they accumulate. When homelessness has become a part of life, a home of its own is often a prerequisite for a possible other problemsomeness to begin to erupt. However, combating homelessness is not only about building housing, but also about the success and sustainability of housing. Housing needs advice and support, and it should also be possible to support the construction of a social support network and possible other problems. Mr President! This legislative change will improve the financial position and housing situation of students and young people and will also facilitate the rental housing situation of growth centres, in particular, at a more general level, as the number of small non-subsidised rental dwellings remains higher for others in need. I hope that the law will move forward quickly in Parliament so that new student housing can be built as soon as possible and that student housing companies will not have to wait long for an increase in the grant amount. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u29	I will give you this half-hour rule, interpreting the speeches made by Mr Essayah, Mr Multala and Mr Honkonen. — Ms Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u30	Mr President! Yes, affordable housing for both young people and students is more than necessary, and this increased interest subsidy is indeed a good proposal to promote it. Here Mrs Kiljunen, when she presented this issue, said that many young people today want to live alone. I am sure this is the case, but I would say that the change in housing allowance in the last period, which Mrs Kiljunen raised in her speech, was one of the main reasons why young people were then driving into these non-subsidised rental homes, expensive ones, and brought more competition to city centres. Yes, in this case of housing allowance, it would be appropriate to make a correction. Originally, the Ministry of Finance introduced that this would be more or less cost-neutral when students were transferred to the general housing allowance, but how could it be price tag was about 80 to 100 million, which means that this was done in haste and in that sense it was perhaps not thought of the whole to which it would lead. Plus the fact that this rush into non-subsidised housing caused problems: for example, cellular housing began to fall vacant, and then Kela began to make very strange interpretations, which even siblings were considered to be a cohabiting couple, and thus the young people were also faced with problems in solving the housing subsidies that Kela inherited, so I hope that, now that the government has wanted to intervene in housing policy, it would also be considered to clean up the housing allowance system completely. That is where Mr Arhinmäki said that cutting housing allowance is not the solution. It is probably not cutting it in itself, but it is completely reconstructing it, because there is still such a peculiarity in living there too, that the property does not affect the amount of housing allowance — whether it was the last change made by the previous government — and it does mean that there will always be speculators on the market who feel that if they have dividends, they will then be able to support themselves and show that they do not have much other income, and they will rent their own dwelling and raise housing allowance. Of course, this group is small, but that group also exists. When this shocking amount, which is currently going to the housing allowance, has been mentioned here in the speeches, the EUR 2 billion, this issue of housing allowance is equally important in this context when we want to increase the production of affordable housing. Indeed, it is true that it is first affected by the supply of land there, and who is given these land to build will also have an impact. And special groups should be taken into account. For the elderly, more and more variable, different forms of housing need to be developed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u31	Mr President! Housing policy should at least be one of the hottest topics for discussion here in Parliament, as everyone would be well placed to live somewhere. It touches everyone in this society. Here Mr Arhinmäki spoke of the fact that it is only by building more that the price of living is not affected, but yet we know from studies and the real life that it is the thing that affects the price of living most of all. This is a good government proposal. This is specifically aimed at supporting affordable rental housing for students and launching new projects, but the explanatory statement of this proposal also states what the objective of such low- and medium-income households is. One of the objectives is to combat homelessness, one is to promote labour mobility and availability, and the third is to reduce negative segregation. However, it is generally known that there are also problems with this ARA system, in particular with regard to this Article 3. If we consider how we aim to create affordable housing production in growth centres, which is specifically covered by the ARA constraints, then the key means of achieving this are the MAL agreements. The regions have already concluded their own MAL agreements from their own perspective, and now, in spring, the state is going to negotiate its share of it. Unfortunately, with the result that we are aiming for 30% of the total housing production of ARA dwellings, there is a situation in some municipalities where a great deal of ARA production has already been built, especially in the old suburbs, where the segregation challenge is already very great. When the city has to build 30% of all new dwellings in the ARA stock, it may only be extremely difficult to find places where it would not increase segregation, especially in situations where whole blocks or houses are built, as is most often the case. After all, during the last term of government, the ARA system was also provided with such so-called supply aid, which also allows individual housing from so-called non-subsidised housing production. This practice is therefore extremely welcome, and I hope that this can be used more and more. But, of course, I hope that, when the state is now going to negotiate these MAL agreements, this issue will be considered, because, here in the capital region in particular, the fight against segregation in the housing market is also the primary means of reversing this trend in the other direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u32	And finally, Mr Honkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u33	Mr President! Indeed, the government's proposal on housing aid for these special groups is now under discussion. This is a very good thing that the government has brought it here so soon for Parliament's consideration, and this is an important part of getting more of these affordable housing built for students, older people and other special groups. Now, in our housing policy, there are, as it were, two major elements of support: we have this demand support, that is, in practice, this general housing subsidy, and then there is this price support, and now, too, this government proposal seeks to lower the price of housing so that these housing support needs are not so high. This is how it is roughly divided. Now that this has been the subject of a debate on these massive expenditure on general housing allowance — this representative, Mr Essayah, said above that it was perhaps rash to bring students into this general housing allowance — it must be said that these costs of general housing allowance have increased significantly every year even before this reform, due to the increase in the cost of living in large growth centres, especially here in the metropolitan area. In my opinion, it is not a problem that all population groups, students and others, who are entitled to general housing allowance... Above all, this is about harmonising their rights. The problem is in itself this whole system and the housing market, where the price of housing is constantly increasing and, consequently, the cost of general housing allowance. The problem is not to bring different groups of the population — students, I think the elderly should be included in this general housing allowance, so that everyone can be on an equal footing. This is not a problem; it is a problem of these growing expenditures and the inconsistencies and inadequacies in our housing markets and construction which then cause this strong increase in housing expenditure and, on the other hand, the fact that soon even households with normal income will not be able to live in the areas of growth centres without general housing support. I believe that this must be tackled in the future and we must try to contain these housing support expenditures, because they are already a very significant burden for our public finances. And, of course, this support for the price of housing is also a key tool in these efforts.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u34	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u35	We will now resume the debate on item 5, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u36	Mr President! As a Member of Parliament in Helsinki, I would like to speak again, because these excessive housing costs are one of the biggest problems in our city. The aim of this proposal is indeed to increase this production of student housing and youth housing, because we really do need affordable student and youth housing. This is also clear from these reports by the Ministry of the Environment, which we have received for this purpose. I also think it is good to take into account that when the housing situation of young people and students improves, it also affects and improves the overall housing situation. In practice, when this is a key issue in relation to labour mobility — we must have the resources to live where the jobs are — this can also have an impact on it. After all, this proposal is based directly on what the government parties have agreed in the government negotiations. We heard in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection how this has also been an exceptionally praiseworthy proposal during the consultation. In other words, thank you to the government for starting to implement the government's common goal of reducing housing costs. The Left believes that housing is a fundamental right and housing policy must guarantee affordable and high-quality housing for all. Finally, I would like to add that this could also have a positive impact indirectly on environmental issues, because we heard that this could contribute to environmentally friendly projects which would otherwise not necessarily be progressing without this increased support. Such projects may include, for example, construction of wood in student housing and, for example, energy efficiency improvements in these basic improvement projects. This, of course, is also a very good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u37	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u38	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! In this country, in this time when women's right to their own bodies has been spoken of more than ever, we do not today have separate legislation that explicitly prohibits the mutilation of women's and girls' genital organs. That is why I am pleased and proud of the civic activity that brought us this bill in the form of a citizens' initiative. The initiative points out that Finland is the only Nordic country in which female genital mutilation is not prohibited by law. It is estimated that some 10,000 girls or women through mutilation live in Finland and some 650 to as many as 3,000 girls under the threat of mutilation. A separate law prohibiting mutilation is appropriate for the city centre. There would be no doubt about it anymore. No religion compels mutilation. Mutilation is one form of sexual violence. I was able to be in the Council of Europe's decision: there we have a convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence, the Istanbul Convention. It obliges women to be banned from circumcision. The reporters also said that they wanted to help all the women in the world who work in their own countries to prevent mutilation. I would like to highlight one example which has been made available to the Council of Europe for discussion. Fadomo Dayib, a Finnish-based candidate for the presidency in Somalia, spoke about this in his presidential round. It was a brave thing to do. We must therefore make a noise to stop the mutilation of girls around the world. There are 200 million mutilated girls and women in the world. In most cases, female genitals are mutilated between 4 and 10 years of age, but also the genitals of babies and women, even those giving birth, are mutilated. Think about your own daughter, your sister, your godfather, your niece in the situation. The mutilations are often done by means of dirty equipment, such as a razor or a piece of glass, which means that inflammations in the area of surgery are common. Infectious diseases, such as HIV, are also possible. The consequences of the end of life can be painful menstruation, difficulties in sexual life and problems in childbirth. Post-mutilation of the pubic lips may cause problems with fluid flow and menstrual problems, itching and infections. The intercourse can be painful. The mutilation of girls and women involves psychological adverse effects and mental health problems. The pain, shock and physical force of the performers experienced at the mutilation event are common causes of traumatic experience. Of course, female genital mutilation is punishable by aggravated assault in Finland. Crime can be sentenced to up to ten years in prison. The attempt to prepare a crime and its involvement, such as assistance, are also punishable. But there is no clear separate legislation, and that is why I think this proposal is very good. The responsibility of the child’s parents must be particularly severe. A passive parent should be able to be convicted of a truly serious assault. We must therefore bring about a change of attitude and also prevent small girls from being sent from Finland to be mutilated to other countries. I am grateful to the citizens' initiative makers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u39	Mr President! According to this very important citizens' initiative, Finland is the only Nordic country in which female genital mutilation is not prohibited by a separate law. It is quite incomprehensible that Finland is so lagging behind in this area as well. Obviously, the former authorities have not been sufficiently interested in this matter. Now is the time to get interested. You need to adjust the zero tolerance here. Since the crime of mutilation involves intentional aggravated assault and the production of an extremely serious physical injury to a child, the sentence must be very possible. An aggravated assault can be sentenced to ten years in prison. I think that judgment should always be applied in these cases of mutilation of young girls. We also need to look at this in terms of how it would be done if their girls were mutilated and seriously abused by members of the population. In these cases, if children were to be taken into care by barbaric Finnish parents, they should also be taken into care by immigrant parents who commit the same crimes. In such cruel acts, it should also be possible to banish parents and guardians of girls from Finland permanently if they are nationals of another country. The possibility of expulsion would increase fearlessly even begin to consider such terrible acts against their own children. According to UNICEF, Somalia is a world leader in mutilation. In Somalia, the percentage of female mutilation remains very high, so the Somali community in Finland should be subject to special monitoring. In this context, hardly anyone in this Chamber dares talk about discrimination or racism if they do so. When this law comes into force in due course, the imams and other leaders of Muslim communities must be obliged to tell their communities the content of the law so often that no one will be left unclear as to the consequences of mutilation. If any mosque or other religious room is defended for mutilation, I think that such a mosque should be closed and an imam or other religious leader who is pro-mutilating and pro-mutilating. After all, Denmark has banished these imams when they have preached something bad. Mr President! In this Chamber the word zero tolerance is often spoken, for example, when it comes to angry speech. Mutilation of children is at least a hundred times more serious than just harmless angry speech. Hatred at the flaws of society and the bad decisions of politicians is a normal feeling. Anger is as natural as a crush. An angry reaction should not be denied if no one is threatened and no one’s honour is violated or otherwise violated. This citizens' initiative, too, has arisen from anger. So it can be said that anger also produces a good energy that moves changes. In this connection, I would like to send a message to the Finnish Ministry of the Interior and the Police Department that you should stop watching the hate speech of ordinary Finns online and concentrate your limited resources on increasing the safety of children and women and investigating and preventing sexual and mutilation crimes. Finally, I hope that every Member of this House will appear to be in favour of zero tolerance in this matter by signing and voting for maximum harsh sentences and sanctions against guardians who are mutilating or mutilating their children. Even the green-left side of this Chamber must not hide behind the ideology of multiculturalism and tolerance in this matter, but must also accept the strongest possible convictions for these crimes of mutilation. Finland cannot be called a civilized country or a country defending human rights as long as child mutilation is ignored.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u40	Mr President, värderade talman! Today we are discussing a very, very important and serious issue. The mutilation of girls is a very serious crime that harms the health and well-being of girls. The mutilation causes its victims, girls and women, both physical and mental suffering. Every case of female mutilation is one too many. These repugnant acts are unacceptable, never or for any reason. I would like to thank the citizens' initiative makers for bringing this important issue here in Parliament. As the mother of two daughters myself, I very much appreciate your work on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u41	Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for showing that he is taking this issue seriously. I would also like to thank the citizens' initiativeers for raising this question to such a level that it is actually a social debate, because it is not just a matter for women to fight against violence against women. We are currently facing a second action programme specifically against mutilation, although there have been problems in implementing it, because there has been no resources for it. Let us indeed hope that resources will now be found in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, where this can be made more effective. The problem of violence against women in the legislation so far has been that, for example, mutilation is treated primarily as a single act. I do not know whether there is a solution to this, but I hope that, at the same time, consideration will be given to the fact that, in fact, mutilation, not only is it a form of abuse, but also the freedom of a woman and the restriction of her life. It's a broader act and a lack.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u42	Mr President! I would like to thank the citizens' initiative makers. In February of this year, the Finns of Peru took this initiative. Unfortunately, then it did not lead Minister Häkkänen's side or from the centre to any further action, but it is good that these parties are now in agreement with the Finns. I have a question for the Minister. I am the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and this will come before us in committee. You told us that you have some sort of study on international legislation now, and we will certainly receive information on these. But I would particularly like to draw attention to the fact that, when you spoke about this recognition of mutilation, mutilation is very easily visible to the eyes. If this has happened, is there sufficient coercive measures in health clinics and schools to check children without parental consent?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u43	Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister for being prepared, without prejudice, to consider this matter as an alternative to adopting this as a separate law. I personally see that such a separate law on the subject would be important, above all, as a signal and a signal of how this is considered to be prohibited and repudiated in Finland, even though the current criminal law naturally covers such activities. I believe that it would also be easier to inform where information is to be disseminated if this were regulated by separate legislation. Mr. Speaker! In this context, I cannot fail to say how ridiculous it is, even in this light, the view of a couple of our fundamental constitutional law scholars that the prohibition of begging would be contrary to the Constitution and discrimination, because it is in practice directed at a particular group. Of course, such legislation is directed at the group, as is the case with women whose culture forms part of such a procedure, and that does not mean that this law is somehow prohibited as discrimination or otherwise questionable from the point of view of the Constitution, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u44	Mr President! I would also like to thank the Minister for his open-mindedness. It is important that this is addressed now. This has been in discussions, like a representative. The sea said earlier. Perhaps the most important point here is precisely what is involved in this genital mutilation, whether these communities or people who do or are planning to do it, so that they are doing this abuse or anything else. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether there are precedents, for example, in which this would have been the case. I personally believe that this separate law is absolutely necessary, because it contributes to the message that this is unacceptable. I personally believe that this would also be a driver for those communities on the one hand, and a tool for those who are working on this, that the change of attitude could be made more intensely.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u45	Mr President! Thank you also, on my own behalf, for raising an important issue for citizens' initiative makers and also for reminding the Minister that female genital mutilation is not only totally unacceptable but also punishable in Finland under criminal law. This is a completely gross and serious violation of human rights. It is very important that we look for the most effective means of protecting those girls whose immunity is threatened by mutilation. In addition to assessing legislative needs, it is absolutely essential to ensure that professionals in different fields have the capacity to intervene and to know how this genital mutilation can also be prevented. For example, according to the Human Rights Union, there are worrying shortcomings in the implementation of the obligation to speak. It is hard to believe that this would be a deliberate omission, but perhaps rather a lack of knowledge and awareness. An important and effective way to prevent female genital mutilation is also to raise awareness of the causes and consequences of tradition among communities that practice this tradition. In its Government Programme, the Government has committed itself to securing resources for the fight against genital mutilation, and I expect that more effective work against mutilation will be:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u46	Mr President! Female genital mutilation is a serious violation of human rights and a crime. It violates self-determination and damages human well-being and health. No girl should be mutilated. Although, according to the current law, mutilation is already prohibited and punishable, as has been said here, the need for a separate law needs to be clarified, just as we also need to consider what measures can be taken to prevent mutilation in Finnish society. Mr President! But no law alone will stop mutilating; we also know that from the world. Preventive measures, information and expertise are also needed for officials and professionals to be able to intervene as well as adequate resources for anti-mutilation work throughout Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u47	Allow me to give Mr Essayah the answer. Then, Minister, if he wishes to comment, we will return to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u48	Mr President! I would also like to thank the people who initiated the citizens' initiative and the Minister for Justice for the fact that he has already told us in this speech that he is considering and at least has not excluded the possibility of this separate law being enacted, because the fact is that even though this mutilation is being investigated in Finland as a serious, serious abuse, we have not had any cases of mutilation in Finland or abroad to court if this information from 2018 is true. However, in the sense that we have about 10,000 girls and women who have been mutilated in Finland and perhaps even some 3,000 girls are at risk of being mutilated, these worrying figures tell us that Finnish society has not received the message that we do not accept this kind of behaviour in Finland. In that sense, I hope that the Ministry of Justice will look into this matter. It is also hoped that resources will then be provided for prevention, so that in school health care and health care, this issue may be more easily raised when there is clear legislation in the background.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u49	Mr President! Thank you for a good conversation. It is certainly the case that we need more action, more contact between school, health care, the police, the judiciary. And that preventative work is now to be strengthened during this reign. That is precisely why we also have a record in the Government Programme that we are now doing more and also investing more money in this. It is true, as has been pointed out here, that these cases have not come to our courts. That is certainly also why there have been mutilations, which have not been prevented. It must therefore also be borne in mind that parents also have an obligation to report if they know or if a relative knows that this girl is now in danger of being mutilated — even then it is an obligation to take action, and this is not happening today. But it's already forbidden in the Criminal Code. That is why we want it to be about prevention and information, and let us make it clear that it will come through, because, as I said in my introductory speech, every case is one too many, and this should certainly not happen in this good country. That's why the Justice Department is looking very closely now,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u50	Mr President! The colleague here has already proved that we are working very closely together here and that the Government Programme Record also gives a clear assurance that we are serious. It has already been said that this is a crime at the moment, but it is also a good thing to say that the Child Welfare Act also takes account of these cases, i.e. the obligation of the authorities and other people working with children to report child protection and report to the police if such a crime is suspected, i.e. it is suspected of being committed against the child. This same child welfare report is also used for others who are concerned about the safety of the child’s growth conditions. Professionals also have the possibility to report to the police, without prejudice to the obligation of professional secrecy, as a result of a threat to life or health. In this regard, it is worth saying that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, together with the THL and the very broad steering group, has drawn up an action programme to prevent female genital mutilation. This program has been published on 6.2.2019, and it tells us that there is zero tolerance in Finnish society in this phenomenon. And, as has been said here separately, I also feel that we have a serious question as to whether we should be even more effective in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u51	We shall now proceed to the list of
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u52	Mr President! I have to start by commenting on a few things that came from the Minister of Justice: I feel that you have a rather weak picture. You spoke of how to remember that parents also have an obligation to report as regards female genital mutilation. But when this is about the very fact that parents are the one who takes them to Somalia, for example, and they are involved in that girl being mutilated. You also talked about the fact that education will be of great importance, but we in Finnish vision often are too naive, that is, if we think of Muslim communities, even if there is education at school or if religious leaders teach that this must be done or go to hell, then there is a big difference between who is being listened to. You also spoke about how difficult these cases are to detect. No, it's not. On the social side, these things can be seen, but health care staff are afraid of racism stamps if they are brought up. Mr President! Finland faces new challenges. With Islam, a barbaric culture has come to Finland that is quiet. I would like to thank every citizen who has signed a citizens' initiative to ban female genital mutilation. Today, the genital organs of small innocent girls living in Finland are brutally mutilated, and that is why they will suffer the physical and mental consequences for the rest of their lives. Naive Finland, for example, has taken a huge number of asylum seekers from Somalia on the grounds of need, and after granting a residence permit, Somalis go on holiday in their home country and some mutilate their daughters there at the same time. The same thing happens in other Muslim countries. Many people are afraid to talk about the root causes of the problem. We finally have to talk about them. The purpose of mutilation is to control a woman’s sexuality, and this is to prevent sexual pleasure. Sometimes a woman’s vagina is even sewn, leaving only a small hole. The man whose property the woman later becomes cuts open. How can any Muslim father or Muslim mother allow such a thing to happen to her child? In a religion founded by Muhammad, a girl under ten years of age married a paedophile prophet, a woman’s worth is cheap. [PresidentMattiVanhanen : I ask the representative to speak with respect. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u55	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Today we have a huge citizens' initiative, an initiative that proposes criminalising female genital mutilation. Personally, I would have liked to see an initiative in this context that covered all children and also included a ban on boys' non-medical circumcision, as these measures are carried out in Finland every year around 400, so this is not a trivial matter either. Non-medical circumcision of boys is not prohibited by any law, but according to both common sense and THL, the measure is considered to violate the integrity and self-determination of the child. But I will now focus on the girls whom this initiative deals with. According to the THL Action Programme to prevent female genital mutilation, there are estimated to be around 10,000 girls or women who have undergone mutilation in Finland. The risk of mutilation is estimated to be between 650 and 3080 depending on whether girls with foreign background are taken into account in the assessment calculation. There are also worrying messages that during school holidays children may be mutilated on holiday. It is estimated that there are as many as 3,000 girls in the danger zone. There has still not been a single court hearing in Finland about child mutilation, although it is estimated that there are thousands of mutilated children in Finland. — that is, thousands of mutilated children, not one court sitting. According to information from the police administration, the number of girls suspected of being mutilated reported to the police was charted by manual examination of the crime report. It was found that in the period January 2013 to May 2019 a few suspected mutilations against a girl reported to the police have been recorded annually. The study found one case in the period mentioned above, from 2018, which has progressed from the Southwest Finland Police Department to the examination of charges. So the figures are really small in relation to what is thought to be the extent of the phenomenon. In 2017, Fenix Helsinki made a report on the mutilation of female children, and already there was evidence of mutilation of girls born in Finland abroad. In view of this, it is very unusual that on Monday, the City Board of Helsinki, in its explanatory statement on the relevant initiative, claims that verified cases of circumcision during residence in Finland have not been revealed. The reports of people from immigrant backgrounds are obviously not worthy of consideration, but here too the Finnish official knows best and the politician nods. By the way, the draft preventive action programme for child mutilation required by the Helsinki initiative was not supported by the Finns of Peru — we have a line in this matter — not even two days ago, with our own legislative initiative, a coalition was required to criminalise, [Requests for reply] Rapid googling has easy access to the stories of mutilated girls living in Finland, which can quickly be traced back to the fact that the mutilated lower end of underage girls does not cause a report of an offence by social welfare and health care workers, even though under the law the employee is obliged to report it to the police. Persons obliged to report child welfare — including child welfare authorities — must report to the police when, on the basis of facts known to them in their duties, they have reason to suspect that the child has been subjected to a sexual offence or a life or health offence with a maximum sentence of at least two years’ imprisonment. Can it be argued, then, that only a few of the above-mentioned authorities and bodies in Finland encounter minor mutilated children? According to the criminal code currently in force, female mutilation is a crime that fills the identifying mark of aggravated assault. A crime for which the police are obliged to report to the police by all those involved and the authorities who are obliged to report child protection. A crime whose prosecution will only expire in 20 years. A crime a child, if he wanted to be an adult, could prosecute. A crime not reported to the police. That is why it is important to bring this initiative to the finish line and criminalise the act so that no one can interpret it when this action has to be brought to the attention of the police. The question rightly arises: why should children be mutilated in Finland without interference as required by the legislation on child protection and crime? The GREVIO Group of the Council of Europe made recommendations to Finland a few weeks ago after assessing how well Finland combats violence against women and domestic violence. Experts encourage Finland to criminalise female genital mutilation. In addition to self-mutilation, crimes would include inciting and recruiting the perpetrator. For some reason, these crimes are not brought up or condemned. For some reason, in this country, obviously in fear of racism, we do not dare to condemn these acts fairly and bring them to justice. What kind of world do we live in? What kind of Western welfare society for equality between women and girls looks elsewhere and shrieks about cultural sensitivity when it comes to enormous suffering, which often goes on throughout life? What kind of society tries to speak quietly and whisper when this brutal and traumatic act would require sound, strength and action to put an end to it? Can we imagine a situation where a group of people in Finland would start cutting off their children’s pinkies without anesthetics with dull knives? Could we imagine that this would be done for years by training and raising awareness that this should not be done? Can we imagine talking about cultural sensitivity and not doing everything we can to bring these people to justice? Why, then, would the need for the integrity and protection of the child now under consideration be somehow different? Do we accept the brutal abuse of other children because we are tolerant and nice? Mr President! As long as there is no concrete action in our country, children are sacrificed each year on the altar of multicultural idealization by mutilating their genital organs in village huts with pieces of glass and razors, holding on, spreading their feet, without anesthetics, without proper facilities, skills and medical treatment. Think about it, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u56	I will give the answers to these representatives, Mr Vikman and Mr Honkasalo, and then to Mr Henriksson.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u57	Mr President! The eradication of mutilation has already been on the agenda of the Coalition Party, for example, during the last period. The citizens' initiative is important, and I was also allowed to participate in it in the spring when it was left in Parliament. After all, the form of the citizens' initiative is a proposal to start drafting legislation. That is why we, together with Mr Sarkomaa, are submitting a bill that complements this citizens' initiative. Our bill concerns the prohibition of female and female genital mutilation as a criminal offence. There are technically two of these legislative initiatives, and with this whole we want to improve the prevention of genital mutilation, improve the entry of acts to the attention of the authorities, and strengthen penalties for acts. Indeed, it is estimated that as many as 3,000 girls in Finland are threatened with mutilation. No case that has taken place has progressed to the point of trial. It is simply that we need to be better able to protect these girls living under the threat of mutilation and, at the same time, to prevent cases. Crimes also need to be more effectively dealt with in criminal matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u58	Mr President! I think that we all believe in this House that this is a very serious violation of human rights; that it is a serious violation of human rights and also violence against women; that there is no disagreement at all. I appreciate Mr Henriksson's contribution that he was able to respond constructively to all these speeches, and perhaps that is the difference between whether we are able to talk about this matter so that we do not degrade whole groups of people and stir up fear as one group here tends to do. I would have asked Minister Henriksson again if it were possible: when this separate legislation is examined, what is important, could it also address the fact that, according to the school health survey at present, young people from immigrant backgrounds are poorly placed in school health care? So it is also about the trust that is fragile in health care. I believe that when we build trust instead of forcing people, we will also be able to achieve the best results. The League of Human Rights in Finland has really done
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u59	Thank you, Mr President. My view of this debate is that we all agree that this is a very, very serious crime. I've never heard anyone else think otherwise. That is why I continue to say that I think it is very good that this citizens' initiative has been taken. It is necessary for this issue to be discussed and we must work together to consider how we can do better than we can today to prevent any girl being mutilated. That is why the government now wants to invest in more cross-administrative cooperation. [requests for reply ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u60	Thank you. — I would like to add a brief word of speech to the representatives of Salmon, Rantanen, Keto-Huovinen, Ronkainen and Hassi, and then go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u61	Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister for his excellent contributions and for the fact that the government is really working on this. Having listened to the debate here, it really seems that this Chamber is very unanimous that this is a serious crime — a crime which is already being punished and which will expire in 20 years — and everyone is agreed that it should be possible to deal with this better. When talking about prevention, attention should be paid to the deterrent effect of these crimes. It is not enough even if there are 20 years in prison, because if you know that you never get caught, then there is no special or general effect of this kind. That is why it would be important for us to be able to resource the investigation so that these cases would come and the message would leave. Now there is a very united, unambiguous and serious message coming out of this Chamber: this is a serious crime, this must be addressed, this citizens' initiative is welcomed. Let me put it this way: I would hope that such a good, unanimous message on such a serious matter would not spoil the fact that we are going to blame others here when we are so united, but that we are taking this forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u62	Mr President! Here I would like to draw attention to the fact that, although I spoke in my own speech about the separate criminalisation of this particular act, it is probably quite clear that prevention would be the best at this point. But that prevention has been taking place in this country since the 1990s, and what is the result? The result is that we have not been able to prevent it, but neither have we been convicted of such acts when prevention has failed. And they are, in a way, two different things — of course they are connected together, but two different things. Both must go through this, not only prevention, but also the staunch condemnation of these brutal acts, because I find it shameful that we do not have one single trial on this issue, even though the figures on the extent of this phenomenon are huge, they are fierce. That is where we have failed, and now we are trying to do everything we can to make this a different matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u63	Mr President! I would like to point out here that when we talk about criminalisation and prevention, the issue that has led to these cases not becoming judgments in the Court of Justice. With regard to these matters, I discussed with several special prosecutors who specialize in crimes against women and children, and they all said that the problem is that there is no evidence of these cases. These children are being taken out of the country. This deed is carried out there by a relative or acquaintance. A little kid can't tell us anything. In practice, he probably doesn't even know the name of this unsub. This is the big problem: to take these things forward. That is why criminalisation alone is not the right solution, but we must also take other measures and we must also invest in resources on the police side to be able to investigate these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u64	Mr President! I too would like to thank the citizens' initiative makers. It is clear that there has been no intervention in female genital mutilation by existing legislation. It is a pity that the Minister was able to leave, and I would have liked to ask about this mutilation of boys, which has already come to light in a few speeches when I see from the point of view of equality that Parliament should legislate for everyone equally. This citizens' initiative focuses on girls, but also on boys who are threatened with ritual surgery, for which there is no medical basis. I believe that all non-medical measures against children's genitals should be strictly prohibited and those responsible for their actions should be held accountable.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u65	Mr Hassi, and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u66	Mr President! In 1991, 28 years ago, a number of women’s representatives asked a written question as to whether a separate law should be introduced to criminalise female genital mutilation. The then Minister of Justice replied that it was already a crime under the current legislation. I happened to be in the Committee on Legal Affairs, which, in the context of the reform of the penal code, came under the articles on crimes against life and health, and the then Committee on Legal Affairs made sure that the explanatory statement of the law stated that such so-called circumcision of a so-called girl child was a serious abuse. Little by little, it began to spread that it was a crime. Also, the preparation, which I believe is also the fact that parents send their children abroad to be mutilated, is a crime by law. However, there may be a need for a separate law to clarify this issue. Although legal scholars do not think that the internal logic of our judicial system necessarily needs it, information and clarity can be needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u67	And now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u68	Mr President! One girl child mutilated, one woman mutilated is too much. We have had a debate here on the need for separate legislation, and I have not heard a single speech here against it in such a way that separate legislation would be detrimental. On the contrary, there have been strong speeches here to make it necessary for us to do more. I personally believe that it is a disgrace to Finland that we are not among those countries where the mutilation of children, the mutilation of girls and women is clearly prohibited by separate regulations. It is banned in all the Nordic countries and also in 26 countries in Africa and the Middle East. I would like to extend warm thanks to the citizens' initiative makers and welcome this initiative to Parliament. During the last parliamentary term, I made this an initiative for action. At the meeting, we have worked hard to obtain separate legislation. The debate has shown that there are also tone differences in this area. It is very good that this Parliament can take a position on this issue. I myself will give this initiative warm support. The Minister has now left, but it is good to say what is strongly in favour of this initiative. So THL has indeed found that there are 10,000 girls who have been mutilated in Finland, and indeed 600 to 30,000 girls are at risk of being mutilated all the time. This is a very serious and serious violation of human rights and self-determination. There has been a very serious mention here of the problems of health, sexual health, the social situation caused by this mutilation. This will certainly be known to all the Members of Parliament when we start dealing with this citizens' initiative. I believe that this debate has already brought out positions. I am truly sorry that the Minister of Justice could not stay and listen to this. I was delighted that he has softened his position and he said that he can consider and that the government cannot unequivocally deny this separate regulation. But it is quite clear that in Finland we need to be more effective in protecting girls under the threat of mutilation and in taking more swift and serious action to combat these serious and inhuman crimes, to help victims, children, women and to bring those responsible to justice. Here Mr Hassi very well pointed out that efforts have been made to raise awareness. You described what was done in the Committee on Legal Affairs, but it is clear — and I think this citizens' initiative is very clear — that our country does not have enough information on criminality, it is not sufficiently well known, and that is why we need separate legislation that strongly signals that this is a serious criminal offence. It is also a catalyst, and I boosted the attitude change needed in Finnish society. When the minister mentioned the parents and the obligation to report, it is good to say out loud that we have cultural differences, cultural traditions, ideas that mutilation is the protection of children, and parents see that it is best for the child. In order to get a catalyst for the change of attitude that is needed, it is important that we clearly have a law that prohibits child mutilation, female and female mutilation. In other words, I strongly support the need for a tool for preventive work and for a driver to change these very attitudes. Here Mr Vikman said that this initiative states that a separate law would be adopted, but this initiative has not yet specifically stated what this legislation would contain. That is why, in order to achieve the goal of this debate, which has been accelerated by the citizens' initiative, we have adopted a package of legislative initiatives in which we have raised issues which we believe should be included in this separate legislation and, indeed, in those legislative initiatives, which are still possible to sign, new articles are put forward in this separate penal code. In other words, it would indeed be said that the mutilation would have been a separate criminalisation by means of separate penal provisions, that is to say, this would be in line with what is stated in this initiative. In addition, we would increase the minimum sentence to two years of imprisonment, that is to say, this is a minimum penalty, and this bill is also intended to strengthen the prevention of genital mutilation, which the Minister has very well spoken about here, and also to improve the knowledge of the authorities. What is also in the second legislative initiative is that there are articles there that clarify the obligation of the various authorities to report this matter to the police and to child protection, because we do not think that these articles are clear enough at the moment. Mr President! In our legislative initiatives, too, this separate criminalisation would also deny Finnish citizens the possibility of mutilating abroad and would give the authorities more opportunity to deal with these crimes. So we really need this separate legislation, and that is what I strongly want to speed up. Finally, this citizens' initiative is indeed warmly welcome and deserves careful but prompt consideration in the Finnish Parliament. And, indeed, to the government of the country, I send my greetings when unfortunately no minister, neither Minister of Justice nor Minister of Social Affairs and Health, had the opportunity to hear this valuable, important debate on the Minutes read this important referral debate. And I very much welcome the fact that we are going to find out what the Nordic countries have laid down, what its effects are, and we are also going to study the legislation of the rest of Europe, so that we can have separate legislation in Finland that is progressive and that protects girls and women in order to prevent the mutilation of women, girls and also, in the best possible way, to prevent these serious violations of human rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u69	Mr President! According to THL, 10,000 girls and women are victims of genital mutilation in Finland. Even over 3,000 girls in Finland are at risk of being mutilated. Disgusting, barbaric and outrageous criminal tradition is true in our country. Despite this, not a single case has been brought to justice in Finland. How is this possible? The present citizens' initiative, which proposes a separate criminalisation of female and female genital mutilation, seeks to answer this question. The tradition of disgusting mutilation is found in certain cultures and communities around the world. This practice, which is alien to Finnish and Western culture, is a serious violation of the individual’s right to physical integrity. Female genital mutilation even causes permanent mental and physical suffering and numerous health problems. This is in no way understandable. This is absurd and unambiguously wrong. Contrary to what is sometimes said, female genital mutilation is already a criminal offence today — this is unambiguous. Preparations for mutilation, attempts and assistance have also been criminalised. It's a felony assault. It's a punishable act. As the only Nordic country, Finland has not separatelycriminated female genital mutilation. Unlike Finland, in other Nordic countries, cases of mutilation have been handed down. In Finland, the Supreme Court has taken a position on the criminality of mutilation in other contexts. According to the Supreme Court, this is mainly a case of aggravated assault, which under no circumstances can be justified by religious and social reasons. In this context, the Supreme Court also stressed that female genital mutilation is different from boys' circumcision and cannot be compared in criminal terms. Mr President! I would like to raise three points in particular with regard to this citizens' initiative: First of all, I look at this as a lawyer. Some criminal justice scientists have drawn attention to the fact that this separate criminalisation does not offer any new protection in criminal law. It does not specify the area of punishable behaviour. On the other hand, it has rightly been said that such separate criminalisations are appropriate in some cases, as they can highlight the particular reprehensibility of the act and specify what is prohibited by the criminal code. This is what supports the citizens' initiative. Separatecrimination expresses a strong, judgmental position and emphasises the reprehensibility of mutilation. The mutilation of girls is unequivocally wrong in Finland. I hope that individualisation will also give the authorities more backstops to tackle this disgusting form of crime. Representatives of the Coalition Party Sarkomaa and Vikman have prepared, in support of the citizens' initiative, legislative initiatives for the separate criminalisation of mutilation and the strengthening of the sentence. The tightening of the penalty is another reason for the separatecrimination of mutilation. It is particularly important that the minimum sentence of the act be increased to two years in prison. Not only is this fairer from the point of view of the victim, but it would also provide additional protection from the point of view of investigations and coercive measures; in Finnish it will be easier to keep them in custody during the investigation. Those responsible for these serious crimes of violence must be brought to justice more effectively. Secondly, it must be understood, as has been emphasised here, that this separate criminalisation alone will not stop mutilation. Of course, the clarification of the criminal code will support the fact that the authorities may be more effective in seizing cases. However, the tradition of mutilation and its threat must be better understood, for example, in maternity hospitals, clinics, school health care, day care centres and schools. There is a need to increase powers and responsibilities. We need action from the government. It is also important to talk about things with their real names. Female genital mutilation is mutilation. Why is this called circumcision in our society, even in our health care? Non-governmental organisations, particularly the World Vision, have done valuable work in raising the issue to public debate and speaking about it in its proper name. Thirdly, if we are to find the answer to why no case of mutilation has been brought before the courts in Finland, we must understand how this foreign tradition of violence differs from many indigenous forms of violence. The difference is that female genital mutilation is a standard protected, supported and even required by certain communities. It is a broader phenomenon, a society within which religious, tradition or culture justify and commits illegal acts. These are so-called parallel societies. Mr President! This week we celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Finnish Government. At the heart of our Constitution are the fundamental rights and freedoms of the individual. The right to physical immunity is not a matter of opinion. Our society must take a firm line in the fight against parallel societies. Female genital mutilation is also a reality in communities that have been a part of Finnish society for a relatively long time. Can it be argued that this is a lack of knowledge or enlightenment? I doubt it. It looks like we're dealing with an attitude problem. Ultimately, the desire to respect fundamental rights and freedoms, to respect and respect Finnish law cannot be overturned to people, communities and individuals from the outside. It is a matter of each individual's own responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u70	Mr President! You can see that today we are again talking about the mild phenomena of a multicultural society: ‘zero tolerance’, ‘originally terrible’, ‘actions are needed’, ‘condemned’, ‘mighty’, ‘dangerous’, ‘dangerous stain’ —and nothing will happen. Everyone agrees that female genital mutilation is reprehensible, but that is not enough. It is not enough for us here to oppose and emphasise ‘awesome’ and ‘awesome’, which we are prepared to face up to these things that have been imported into our country. Genital mutilation and many other acts of violence against girls and women in various primitive cultural and religious ways are the worst example of the failures of our liberal society. Many ask how this is possible, something like this is happening in our equal Finland. I answer because the answer is very simple: because people come to us from the cultures where this is happening. These people do not give up their cultural customs when they enter the borders of Finland, not even when they receive Finnish citizenship after four years. We know that there is mutilation in Finland. They're sending girls to be mutilated. Medical staff working in the field of childbirth and gynaecological diseases see the consequences of this violent activity all the time. Mr President! The fact that mutilation is contrary to criminal law is not enough at all. The perpetrators, or parents who make this possible for their child, or the perpetrators themselves, will not be judged. There are no consequences. Of course, education is needed, but it is inadequate, as is usually so strongly the case in the fight against our own culture, which is common in certain groups of immigrants. The need for resources, to which several representatives have referred here today, is of course important, but, terribly often in our country, it means that a few NGOs who are obsessed with immigration are getting more money and, as a result, they are putting in place a campaign that includes hashtag, which condemns the mutilations once again. This has no real consequences for itself. This citizens' initiative is certainly to be welcomed, but certainly not enough. In Sweden, for example, a separate law prohibiting mutilation has been in force since 1982, but the problem has not gone away. I wonder why you think that is. The most important thing would be to ensure that the parents who allowed the mutilation are held liable in criminal law and that they are punished just as other parents who abuse their children are punished. This requires, for example, that medical staff or teachers are obliged to inform if they find that the child has been mutilated or threatened with mutilation. This obligation in this context means that they are obliged to tell us about it. The fact that operators are entitled, without prejudice to the obligation of professional secrecy, to disclose is not sufficient. The mutilation or its threat must always also be triggered by measures to protect children, and people must be informed and adhered to when they enter. Mr President! If a person who has been granted protection and protection from Finland sends his children to be mutilated, even to the country from which he has fled, he will significantly violate the moral basis on which our respect for human rights rests. It is also an abuse of the asylum institution. We know that in Somalia, for example, mutilation threatens almost all girls and women. It is very grotesque that, at the same time as this is happening, we are prisoners of this issue in asylum policy. The Supreme Administrative Court has only maintained that a woman who has received a negative asylum decision cannot be returned to Somalia until it has been determined whether her child would be the victim of mutilation there. In other words, there is nothing we can do about mutilation in Finland at the moment, but we must not return to the country where it is mutilated. — — — — Think about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u71	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to thank the fellow Members and, of course, above all the active citizens of the citizens' initiative and the more than 60,000 people who have signed the initiative. The citizens' initiative is a bit like this kind of initiative in nature, i.e. a proposal to start drafting legislation, and it is of course technically easier to draw up than a specific legislative initiative. It does not in any way diminish the responsibility we have here in Parliament and in the committees that deal with it. This must be dealt with seriously, as everyone who has spoken here, and also Minister Henriksson, has said. It is good that there are also a couple of supplementary, more specific legislative initiatives on this from Mr Sarkomaa and Mr Vikman. I have already signed those initiatives myself, and I hope that at least 100 names will be added to them and that this party borders will cross. I'm sure this is the kind of thing that unites us now. According to THL, there are more than three thousand girls in the high-risk group in Finland from six hundred to three thousand girls — a large number of people who are at risk of violence. This threat alone is something that is traumatic and life - limiting to man. Violence in no form can be justified by traditions, not by culture, not by religion or other similar reasons. No health criterion, no positive health criterion, has been established for mutilation. As several Members have already said, we already have legislation in the Criminal Code, but, as has also been said, this separate law would send a message that no one will be confused. It is indeed the case, as Mr Hassi, for example, said, that it is not technically wise to have overlapping or parallel legislation. It should be avoided, but perhaps now it is a matter that this message should be so clear and unproblematic for everyone that everyone understands what this is all about: we do not accept violence and mutilation on any basis. That message has to go forward. The question of duty has been raised here, or in fact it has been said here in two forms: whether there is a right to report a suspicion of crime or whether there is an obligation to report a suspicion of crime. When I personally look at this on Valvira’s website, the title here is the duty to report suspected crimes against the child. I take a direct quote here: ‘All healthcare professionals are obliged to report to the police withoutresponsible for making any rules on custody, when they are acting on information-based grounds that there is a suspicion that a child has been In addition, a child protection declaration shall be made.’ This is how professionals are told and, of course, all citizens are told on Valvira's website: there is an obligation to notify It is not clear to me now how actively these declarations are made. I'm sure that's going to be the case in the Legal Affairs Committee. I could imagine not being notified in all cases, and there may be a number of reasons behind it: social pressure, outright intimidation, even targeting. The smaller the area, the greater the pressure. The committee should consider the means and means by which staff can be reduced to reporting, so that the staff themselves do not become victims of pressure or even violence. I know of cases where in small localities in other types of cases, such as Kela, pressure is so intense that the person has even resigned and moved to a larger place. Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask a fictitious question of this kind: if we were to hear today that three thousand Finnish children were at risk of being amputated by a finger — I would throw out some reason: a ritual or some other cultural reason would mean amputating one finger — what kind of reaction would society have? Would we remain powerless or take action? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u73	Mr President! Bleeding, infection, infertility, problems during pregnancy and childbirth, at worst death. The action has no health grounds, and it harms these girls physically and mentally. The number of girls who are at risk of being mutilated in Finland, for example, or how many cases have been dealt with in this debate has already been well established. Although female genital mutilation is punishable in Finland as an aggravated assault, in 2019 the cases of female genital mutilation will not end up in court. There are no precedents, and people who support mutilation do not see acts as abuse. If genital mutilation in our society is not universally understood as gross abuse in communities and families that maintain a culture of mutilation, no acts will be prevented or reported. In this way, these acts will not diminish or end. The current law in force is therefore not enough, and this has in practice been seen: no precedents. Mr President! A separate law prohibiting mutilation would confirm the message that these acts are not officially approved in Finland. Female genital mutilation is not acceptable. The law would be a clearer tool for those who do preventive work, and it would also be a driver for change of attitude. It has been said many times that Finland is the only Nordic country in which female genital mutilation is not prohibited by law. What does this have to do with our society? Are we hiding difficult things? However, it is a question of human rights. Actions against these girls are not part of our concept of equality. Finland is committed to international human rights conventions. Genital mutilation is touching the body, violating immunity. A child or young person at the mercy of his parents, educators and his immediate community has no choice. That is why the legislator's main task is to protect the disadvantaged. Mr President! The Government Programme allows for the adoption of a separate law prohibiting mutilation. The Government Programme states: ‘Safety of resources for the fight against genital The Government Programme therefore states that, in addition to operational programmes and appropriations, the legislation can also be further refined. It is our legislators' responsibility to do so. If it is said that there is no doubt as to the criminality of the act, are we honest and contradictory? Among these local communities, parents, culture, those who look close to the cause and those who are silent around them, acts are still allowed. It cannot be that, on the basis of religion, tradition, culture, illegal, gross acts that are condemned in the Criminal Code are committed in Finland. It must be acknowledged that the separate law does not reduce the need for change of attitude or training of professionals to meet the parties concerned and to educate girls about stopping genital mutilation. Development cooperation, for example, has been able to train, change attitudes in the countries of origin, and even to ban the law on mutilation. The Centre is ready to have a separate law against mutilation. As in other Nordic countries, female genital mutilation should be explicitly criminalised in Finland. In the same context, more specific regulation on circumcision for boys should also be brought to the level of the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u74	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! In Finland, the maiming phenomenon mainly affects Somalis, who have long been our most important humanitarian immigrant minority. In Somalia, nearly 100 percent of the girls are mutilated. Indeed, the barbarism of mutilation does not need to be exemplified in every speech. Instead, there should be a debate on how society should react. As stated in the citizens' initiative, Finnish law already prohibits mutilation. However, no one is known to have been convicted in Finland of genital mutilation. However, for example, the staff of maternity clinics are constantly colliding with this phenomenon. It is known that children are sent from Finland to immigrants' countries of origin to be mutilated. It is clear and obvious that current legislation and its implementation are not enough. Education and prevention are important, but crimes that have already taken place must also be tackled and punished by the perpetrators, i.e. the guardians. If there is virtually nothing to be done about the crime, it is a sign that society does not think it is worth anything. It is also the task of punishment to raise the threshold for committing a crime. As Mr Rantanen rightly said, prevention and punishment are not alternatives. They go hand in hand, as in all crimes. Why is there no report of mutilation to the police and why do they not end up in court even though they happen and are aware of them? One explanation is certainly a diseased phenomenon called cultural sensitivity. There is no desire to offend the minority, fear of being labeled racist. In Finland, however, each individual must have the same right to physical integrity. Children should not be sacrificed to sentimentality. Children belonging to minorities should not be left at the mercy of minority communities. I find it very unusual the information that has emerged here that these cases do not lead to convictions because the child is unable to name the mutilator. If a child appeared in school or in day care, cut earlobes, would this go without consequences because the child could not name the mutilator? We need a separate law prohibiting mutilation. It is also important that a substantial penalty is imposed for breaking the law. Unfortunately, in Finland, human life and health generally do not enjoy very strong law protection, but common sense says that the mutilation of a defenceless child and the production of permanent bodily injury must be punished at least as severely as the corresponding act against an adult. In particular, it must be borne in mind that the people to whom the law would apply come from societies where punishments are often quite different from what we have been accustomed to. Conditional punishments do not have any deterrent effect on such people, nor do they impose fines, because the people in these communities are largely out of work and do not have any income. An addendum to the Aliens Act should be made that mutilation or mutilation of a child is a reason for abolishing a residence permit. Such a sanction would certainly have a stronger deterrent effect than sanctions. It is of paramount importance that the situation of girls at risk is actually monitored, for example in the context of school health care. The mutilation must always come out, and it must always come to the police and the court. Health care staff must therefore be obliged to report the breach of which has also been sanctioned. This is a very welcome initiative. Finnish society is built on individual rights. The passivity of the public authorities around the maiming phenomenon is quite frankly incomprehensible. Finally, although it is not directly linked to this initiative, the ritual mutilation of young children should also be explicitly criminalised, even though its health effects are not as serious. There is no reasonable basis for allowing religious circumcision — so I am talking about religious, not medically justified measures. Religious freedom, which is often referred to, is not a rational argument, because it is the mutilation of children that offends and restricts their freedom of religion. And that, too, is a weak argument for circumcision to be carried out in spite of criminalization. Such reasoning could legitimize, for example, drunken driving. Criminalisation does not prevent crime, but it sends out a message of what society tolerates and does not. Religious mutilation of children is probably nothing that Finnish society should tolerate in 2019. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u75	Mr President! The citizens' initiative, which aims to ban the mutilation of girls by a separate law, has raised an important issue in the debate, and during this debate Parliament has felt very united that the mutilation of girls is not accepted and that further measures are needed to ensure that we are better able to protect girls under threat. I was allowed to participate in leaving this citizens' initiative in Parliament in the spring. The form of the initiative is precisely that it proposes that the law be drawn up. That is why, together with Mr Sarkomaa, we are submitting a legislative initiative to ban the mutilation of girls and women's genitals, which complements the citizens' initiative, as a criminal offence. There are two technical initiatives in this bill, which are intended to improve the prevention of genital mutilation, to improve the knowledge of the authorities and to strengthen penalties for acts. It has come to light that, based on THL calculations, there are about 10,000 girls and women who have been mutilated in Finland. Up to 3,000 girls are currently living under the threat of being mutilated. It is quite clear that our legislation must send out a clear message, a very negative message and a position on mutilation, and criminal liability must be better achieved. A separate law prohibiting such mutilation would be a strong message that female mutilation is a crime in Finland. The criminal offence of mutilation is not always well enough known, even though it is against criminal law as a serious abuse. Unlike the other Nordic countries, we have no case in Finland that has progressed to justice. In addition to the fact that mutilation is clearly prohibited and the legislation sends out a clear message as to how serious and serious the crime is, we must also invest in preventive work. The key to this is to strengthen cooperation and awareness of mutilation between early childhood education, school, social welfare and health authorities. These must therefore be improved. The citizens' initiative is very welcome, and with Mr Sarkomaa we would like to express our support and the support of the Assembly with the bill I mentioned. We want to speed up this debate and highlight the issues that this legislation aimed at eradicating mutilation would do well to take into account. In the bill we propose that a new provision on female genital mutilation should be added to the penal code, the minimum of which would be two years of imprisonment. In addition, the initiative sets out new points to clarify that health, social and school authorities are obliged to report to the police or to child protection when they discover possible mutilation or suspect that someone is at risk of being the victim of such an act. These amendments would, in particular, strengthen information on the criminality of these gross acts, increase the penalty for acts and improve the accountability of those responsible for their actions. We support the citizens' initiative and, for our part, want to provide concrete ideas for the debate on what should be taken into account in a separate law.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u76	Mr President! Thank you to the authors of the initiative for raising a serious issue in the debate and discussion of Parliament. Female and female genital mutilation is a serious violation of human rights, which is a terrible violation of their right to self-determination and can seriously harm the health of the human mind and body and cause long-term suffering. No girl and woman should be subjected to mutilation, but it still happens. In Finland, we must be able to prevent female mutilation and prevent both cuts in Finland and the fact that girls are being taken abroad to be mutilated. People who are guilty of mutilation and who are taking children to be mutilated must be brought to justice. Although female and female genital mutilation is already prohibited and punishable by the current law, it is still necessary to determine whether a separate law mentioned in the citizens' initiative is needed. We must see which stones must be turned and what measures must be taken to prevent mutilation and to bring the offenders to justice. Mr President! We have to look at the laws, but the laws alone will not stop maiming. We also know that on the basis of international examples. There is also a need for more preventive work and information. Authorities and experts in different fields must have the skills and the ability and willingness to intervene and prevent. Mr President! The need for a separate law and other necessary measures must now be clarified. Finnish legislation does not tend to make separate forms of violence a separate law, but different forms of violence are condemned under criminal law. On the other hand, female and female genital mutilation is not only a traditional form of violence, but also involves limiting and controlling women's right to self-determination and sexuality. And, of course, a separate law can also have a communicative effect. In any case, the most important thing is how best to prevent mutilation and what is the best legislative solution. Let's figure it out and pick it out. Mr President! Other Nordic countries have separate laws, but France, where there are no separate laws, still has the highest number of convictions for mutilation in Europe. In this context, it is good to look at the legislation of other countries, as well as the experience of legislation and practices in general. On the other hand, in Sweden, where there is a separate law, there have in some cases been a series of involuntary, humiliating checks on girls, which have not revealed any mutilations. Therefore, whatever the legislation, we need interference, but it must not lead to practices that humiliate girls. Mr President! Now that the Minister of Justice's statements are in line with the study work, not only lawyers but also immigrant women must be involved in the discussion on how best to tackle genital mutilation through practices and legislation in Finland and how best to raise awareness and change attitudes. Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for Justice, who is not here at the moment, for promising to begin this study.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u77	Mr President! An important point has been raised in the citizens' initiative, which is quite clear. The adoption of a separate law may be part of this solution by which this is implemented, and it is important to clarify that the specific validity of the act can be demonstrated by the separatecrimination and to show that we are in no way allowed and acceptable to do so in society. Finland would also be in the same situation as the other Nordic countries with this separate criminalisation. From the Nordic countries, we should also see how these evidence issues have been dealt with. What else would be good in this separate legislation: that we should not have to consider, for example, the grossness of the act in the overall consideration of these acts, i.e. whether the total grossness, that is, whether the act as a whole is gross, what is required in the case of aggravated assault. If we end up with this separate criminalisation and its minimum sentence would be two years, it will also facilitate the use of coercive measures. The conditions for imprisonment are divided into two categories, general and specific conditions, and specific conditions are the risk of avoidance, the risk of confusion and the risk of continuation. If the minimum sentence were that two years of imprisonment, the court could order the person to be imprisoned without these specific conditions, and this would make it easier, in particular, to keep the person in custody after the hearing. Very often, in these situations, we no longer have special conditions and the person is able to wait for the sentence to be released. In any case, this separate law will not solve the underlying problem that is involved, and that is the issue of proof. Mr Halla-aho brought up part of my speech here, so that even if the child comes into the nursery, it is not required to judge the act so that he knows who has harmed his ear. That is not the point. I said that these acts are taking place abroad, that the child may be taken to a strange place, that there is a stranger there, that it is very difficult to obtain this evidence from abroad and the author, and that is the ultimate question in this matter, which is why they do not come to court. In this regard, it is very interesting to see what these amounts are compared to what we know about the number of children who have been mutilated here in Finland. In any case, we absolutely cannot accept female genital mutilation. I believe that this is a question of how we deal legally with this difficult issue and how we get the most effective legal solution to this issue, so that those people and those responsible actually receive the punishment and then these victims are also protected. The protection of children is of paramount importance in our task. That is the duty of each of us, and that is why we must also seek the best solution for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u78	Mr President! Thank you very much for this citizens' initiative to its authors and signatories. With this initiative, we will return to the deepest values, human rights and fundamental rights. You should be. Finnish culture, customs, values, religion does not include mutilation in any form. Nor should it include looking past mutilation, indifference, shameful passiveness. This mutilation is a raw and inhuman import product which, as with many other forms of immigration, is wanted to remain silent. Now that time of silence is over. Forced and child marriages, polygamy, honour killings, sharia law and mutilation, all of these relate to immigration — immigration that transforms the population base into a threat to Finnish equality and to the safety of children and women. Should we not all, therefore, all of us here, work together to prevent women and children living in our country from being victims of practices, cultures and religions that even commit acts that satisfy the characteristics of a crime? Wouldn't this be a place for cooperation? Should Finland's immigration policy not promote the safety, equality and well-being of women and children, improve the economic dependency ratio? Your Honor! Parliament has been exceptionally united in the horrors that are at stake here today. No one can look past mutilation, at least they shouldn't. With the power of the whole Parliament, we can condemn all the cruel things connected with that harmful immigration in a unanimous and public way. Who here can accept the sharia law? Who here could actually approve of mutilation? I'm sure none of us do. It is our duty to protect women and children living in our country from all this cruelty. We should therefore work together across party boundaries and through all means within the power of this Parliament to prevent immigration, which increases this threat, to expose women and children living in our country to further acts of violence. It is our job to defend our people, to defend the weakest. We also have that power, all the means to do it, to cooperate. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u79	Mr President! I consider this bill to be extremely welcome. And even though it is illegal to mutilate girls today, the adoption of this separate law is an extremely good thing, and it is a pity that the previous Minister of Justice, Mr Häkkänen, did not do this, although during the last parliamentary term, Minister Saarikko of the Centre tried very hard to push this matter forward. I hope that, now that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is dealing with this issue, it will also deal with the criminalisation of boys' circumcision in the same context. We have a clear opinion from the THL and the Medical Association that they do not recommend such a measure, and we have research data that about half a percent of boys also suffer some form of permanent injury from being circumcised, and in the United States, for example, a hundred male children die each year. I personally see that this is also a question of gender equality, and I hope that this issue will be taken into account in committee. I have listened to the speeches of the Finns and am a little confused. In fact, I would like to ask now for clarification: If I have understood correctly, the Finns do not want any unmutilated girls to be returned to Somalia because they are in danger of being mutilated there. Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u81	Mr President! As I said earlier in my reply to this debate, quite 28 years ago on September 20, 91, I asked the government in writing whether there should be a separate law prohibiting female genital mutilation. This question was signed by 30 MPs, including Eva Biaudet and Heidi Hautala, who are still involved in politics, and Riitta Myller and Liisa Jaakonsaari, who were members of Parliament or of the European Parliament a few months ago. The then Minister for Justice, Hannele Pokka, said in his reply that this was a serious abuse and, as I said, in fact, a great many of the issues raised in this debate have also been identified in this written question submitted 28 years ago and in the answer given by the Minister for Justice. As I have already said in this debate, during the same parliamentary term, the whole reform of criminal law was discussed, and there were also crimes against life and health. In this context, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights wrote in the explanatory statement of this section on aggravated assault that the so-called circumcision or genital mutilation of a girl child fulfils the criteria for this act. The debate has highlighted the fact that the maximum sentence for this act is ten years in prison, which is already considered by the Criminal Code to be a very serious crime. The less well-known fact is that the current Criminal Code also contains a section entitled ‘Preparation of an Offensive Crime or Health’, with a maximum penalty of four years’ imprisonment. In this debate there have been quite large numbers of women who have been mutilated overall, but instead no such clear information on the number of girls who have been subjected to this mutilation when living in Finland, either after birth in Finland or after moving to Finland. Perhaps the main problem that has been raised in this debate, particularly in terms of the effectiveness of this current law, is this issue of proof. I am not a lawyer but a layman, but it is difficult to understand and believe that if a girl born in Finland is found to have been mutilated, the child’s parents would have nothing to do with this, so it seems that the way the evidence is assessed is one of the things the law should clarify. This increase in the minimum penalty for two years, which would facilitate the investigation, also seems to be something that should be seriously considered. These points are also raised, and I would like to point out that it is clear to all the parties involved that what has been said in this debate is absolutely unanimous — that female child genital mutilation is a serious crime, a human rights violation and a permanent physical injury to a person, a physical injury to a person for the rest of his life — that the crime of this act, and also the crime of contributing to it, is a clear matter. I think, just as the Minister of Justice, Mr Henriksson, said in his very good speeches, this really should be considered. I understand the legal scholars' idea that the law should be as beautiful in its internal structure, that, as if the same things were not said several times, but that, on this particular issue, the crime of this act and the crime of contributing to it should be clear to everyone, so in this case an exception to such ideals of lawyer beauty in terms of legislation could well be justified. Last but not least, the law in Finland is also familiar with such a concept as the reverse burden of proof. This is the case, for example, in the Equality Act: in cases where there is a suspicion of discrimination on the basis of sex in recruitment, the employer has to show that this has not happened, rather than the burden of proof for those who have experienced discrimination. This could also be a factor that would be needed to facilitate this issue of evidence, so that these acts, if they actually take place, can be brought to justice. I am pleased that a very unanimous message has emerged from this debate as such that female genital mutilation and all its involvement are criminal acts. I hope that this message from Parliament's plenary session will also be sent to the people concerned in one way or another, not only to the Ministry of Justice, but also to those who will find out what legislative changes are needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u82	Mr President! I, too, am in favour of this citizens' initiative, and I have also signed the Sarkomaa and Vikma legislative initiatives in this regard. I believe that we need a law prohibiting mutilation, which also covers mutilation abroad. After all, Finland is the only Nordic country in which the mutilation of women and girls is not prohibited by a separate law, and in Sweden, for example, it was extended to work abroad 20 years ago. Approximately 10,000 girls and women have been mutilated in Finland, and some 650 to 3080 girls are estimated to be at risk of mutilating according to statistics from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. It is amazing that, although this is already a crime that fills the hallmarks of aggravated assault or abuse, we still do not have legal cases, and perhaps one is the very question that Mrs Keto-Huovinen raised well in her speech, namely the evidence and also the denial and notification of cases. For example, health workers, as Mr Kiuru said earlier, have a duty to report suspicions of child abuse. Why this does not happen is a good question. Is it covered up, do they not know whether there is so much shame involved, or what is the reason why this does not come to the police? I am pleased that Minister Henriksson has now taken the view that he wants to see how the Committee on Legal Affairs deals with this matter and is prepared to consider drawing up a separate law, and I really hope that the Committee on Legal Affairs will also take this issue of prevention very seriously, because the most important thing is that we should be able to prevent the mutilation of girls and women, because then, when it happens, we can only punish the act that has been committed and for the future of the girl, it is already a lost case.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u83	Mr President! Thank you to more than 61,000 people who have signed this initiative that we have received this wide-ranging debate here in Parliament. The Finnish Parliament Group has hoped to raise this issue. At the beginning of this year, Vice-President Eerola has taken an initiative on measures to ensure that the Ministry has adopted separate legislation, but this has not happened. It is excellent that this issue has now come up. Personally, like many others in this Chamber, I believe that religion and culture must not expose anyone to violence, whether it be a child, an adult or an animal. We have also sometimes talked about various ritual slaughters. Today we are talking about harming children and women. We now have a situation in society that outside cultures have become phenomena that do not correspond in any way to our traditions and our sense of justice. Rarely can I sincerely agree with so many of the points that Mr Hassi has just made. I myself had wondered whether it was a question of whether the article was effective, or what it is now that those people were not held accountable to the law for their actions, that they had put their children at risk for such an act. Representative Hassi thought highly about this translated display load and evidence. This was also mentioned in the speech when Mrs Halla-aho spoke about the fact that if the child arrived at school with his ears cut off, what would we do? Would we see that if a child cannot tell whether it was a father or a mother or a neighbor’s son, we would do nothing? Yes, we would. We'd call Child Services immediately, the teacher would call. There'll be child welfare. If we don't find who did this, they'll take the baby into custody. Let us find out who it was, and the starting point is that parents need to know something about it. In this context, I hope that in the Committee on Legal Affairs — and I myself am the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs — we will deal with this gap in the sense of whether or not separate legislation should criminalise some form of negligence if there is no provision in the law at the moment, because the parents must know who has done it and if they do not, then they have neglected the care of the child. Then the child must be taken into care, because if we consider that it is not known who is mutilating the child, then it is probably not known much else: is the child as a child there all day by day, or what is going on there. This debate has also highlighted the fact that it is precisely for these cultural reasons that people do not get caught up in their actions. Culture protects, and these people protect each other. Sometimes I remember in the book of criminal law that I found the idea that the risk of being caught is the most effective means of prevention, no matter how effective the articles and all become the death penalty, almost. Well, it doesn't exist in Finland, but no matter how hard the sentence is, if there's no risk of getting caught, it doesn't really stop you, because everyone knows it's a dead letter. I think it was a very good idea to what Mr Halla-aho, our party chairman, suggested that if parents commit such a thing — or even I myself wonder that it can be shown to them that this kind of negligence — then they should be suspended from their residence permit and return them to their country of origin. This was a very good idea, and this is something that we must also reflect on in our foreign legislation. Mr Hassi also spoke about the obligation to report. This is a very important issue, but we need to think about the need for a proper effective system of penalties. It is not enough to have an obligation to report. If you fail to do so, will it become some kind of sanction, and how can you be told that someone has failed to do so? The reason for the discussions here is that the fear of being labeled racist or even being attacked by a personal persecutor — it is known where to live and so on. The name of the authority becomes known to these families, and even the name of a private person can be known as the case progresses, which means that no one is protected from being informed. Of course, this can also prevent people from reporting. This too should be considered as to whether there are any regulations that we could build to protect people's courage to announce these things. We also have witness protection, for example. Of course, the name will come to light. But this is one thing. Here at some point Mr Honkasalo, on the left, said that we should not talk about things in some way offensively towards certain groups or something else. If certain religions, cultures or people from a particular country are affected, then of course we must be able to speak of matters with the right names and not fear them. Some people who come from a country with certain customs — somehow I cannot understand it. In Finland of the 21st century we can talk about things directly, and when it comes to a particular culture or religion, then it is just so. It doesn't help that you're covering it up and keeping it a secret. At least I always like to talk about things with their real names. Indeed, as chairman of the Legal Committee, I promise that this matter will be dealt with in a dignified and thorough manner. When we talked about a bill here, it has been terribly difficult to comment on whether it is even a solution to this issue when the whole bill has not been presented to other representatives except those of the Coalition Party. It is terribly difficult to take a stand, or at least it felt that it would not solve these many broader criminal problems with regard to reporting obligations, the burden of proof, arrest and sanctions for reporting. It sounded like it wouldn't solve these things, but it's hard to say when you haven't seen it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u84	Mr Honkasalo, the name was mentioned and a reply is requested. Well, I'll give it to you then.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u85	Mr President! Congressman Meri said we shouldn't talk about these things. It's not that. It's the way we talk. Your group, in particular, specialises in the fact that it is not possible to talk about this precisely in such a way that whole groups of people are not stigmatised in a way that Mr Vanhanen had to deal with in the past. Violence against women is a very serious human rights problem in Finland and, as I said earlier in my speech, I also count mutilation as part of it. I regard it as a very barbaric act of violence, and it cannot be that violence against women is only of interest when it promotes its own immigrationist agenda.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u86	When the group of Finns is mentioned, the group of Finns is given an answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u87	Thank you, Mr President. If I were to be very hurt, I would be offended that I was just called an immigrationist, but I can handle it very well, and I recognise that I am critical of many things, it was about immigration, economics, taxation, how they are implemented. I am very critical and I want good and sensible legislation and I also want a sensible immigration policy. We Finns have often interfered with the position of children and young people and the position of women in our alternative budgets and debates, so the statement made by the representative is not true in itself. Nor did I recognize that ‘from your group’. Congressman Tynkkynen said that a certain person had married a girl under the age of 10, and that is obviously a fact. Generally speaking, in our society, if an adult man is with a person under ten, it is considered a pedophilia.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u88	Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u89	Mr President! This citizens' initiative concerns an extremely serious procedure which is classified as aggravated abuse, namely female and female genital mutilation. Indeed, this is an act which is clearly unacceptable, and which, of course, is already being punished as a serious abuse in Finland — it is certainly important to underline this. Nevertheless, I very much understand the need to take a separate legislative approach to the specific criminalisation of mutilation. Today's debate has shown that this need has been strongly identified across party boundaries. The message from this hall is therefore clear and strong. However, many interesting and important questions have been raised about this debate, such as Mr Kärnä's question a moment ago, and it would be good to hear the answer from the Finns. [Leena Sea interlude] Mr President! The criminalisation of female genital mutilation or any other form of participation in the preparation, attempt or conduct of female genital mutilation is important in order to prosecute and punish those involved in the crimes. It is always a serious crime, not only of individual sovereignty and integrity, but also of human suffering. That is why it is also necessary to promote all measures to prevent cases of mutilation, i.e. preventing these terrible crimes from being committed in advance, and this requires cross-sectoral, cross-sectoral and cross-sectoral cooperation. Close cooperation between, for example, health care, social care, school services and the police is therefore needed in order to eradicate and prevent criminal practices. It is important, among other things, to develop training so that professionals learn to talk about mutilation in their work and are aware of their reporting obligations, but there is also a need for close dialogue with and between the organisational world and religious communities. Mr President! The previous Minister for Family and Basic Services, Annika Saarikko, launched an action plan to prevent mutilation until 2020. He also opened a debate on measures to prevent mutilation, not only between representatives of different administrative sectors and organisations, but also among religious leaders. I encourage Mr Kiuru, the current Minister for Basic Service, and other ministers who play a key role, to continue this intensive dialogue with religious leaders in order to eradicate mutilation. It is known that the mutilation of girls is strongly linked to traditions linked specifically to religion and culture, which means that religious leaders can play a key role in eradicating this criminal phenomenon.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u90	Mr President! Like you, Sebastian Tynkkynen, and many other Finns and everyone else here on the right side of the hall, you have made many speeches about equality between people here in Finland — you have spoken about immigrants, mothers, daughters and children — I too, as a Member of Parliament, want to defend immigrant families, their women and children, but I also want to defend the Finns in the same line. This citizens' initiative addresses a very unfortunate problem for which we, as a state and society, have been far too bludgeoned. The circumcision of girls is definitely and strongly reprehensible, and the toolbox to combat them has been miserable. The circumcision of children, girls and women, i.e. genital mutilation, must be explicitly criminalised in Finland, as has already been done in other Nordic countries, and I believe that the legislation on circumcision for boys should also be considered. During the previous government period, Minister of Justice Antti Häkkänen considered the separate law unnecessary and justified this by the adequacy of the current legislation. Now this Chamber is unanimous that that law has not been sufficient. According to some estimates, as many as 3,000 girls live in Finland who are at risk of being mutilated. They must now be protected by a law that clearly criminalises mutilation. This specific law would be a signal that in our country this brutal activity is simply not allowed. We will also continue this work in the Committee on Legal Affairs of which I am a member. Mr President! In Finland, the work on change of attitude and information must also continue and professionals must be trained to take education forward. The welfare of those who have undergone circumcision must be improved, for this is already a human tragedy for them for the rest of their lives. The Government Programme also contains a entry ‘ensures resources for the fight against genital mutilation’, and we are sure that - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u91	Mr President! I shall be speaking from my seat and briefly because 40 very substantive contributions have already been made on this subject and there is not much to add to them as such. As a doctor and a health worker, it is self-evident to me that this is an excellent citizens' initiative. In 2011, for example, on this same subject, I gave a wide-ranging interview in connection with one of the awards awarded at the time, whose financial content was directed, among other things, to the prevention work on this issue. I would like to say from this debate that I do understand, as a new Member of Parliament, the way in which we work, that we now have ten people here and we have said the same thing 40 times for two hours here, but in my former working community it would be considered somewhat ineffective. If we have an obvious problem, then that problem must be solved. However, I have listened to this completely and I am listening to the end of this debate because I want the Prime Minister's representative to have the floor on this issue as well. As I have already said, this citizens' initiative was an excellent one. I hope that we will proceed quickly on this matter. In Mr Hassi's speech, there was much of the reflection that I would otherwise have put forward here, and the Minister's comments on this matter were also excellent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u92	Mr President! Today's debate has been very important, and thank you to the authors of this citizens' initiative for allowing us to have this debate. I personally believe that the debate in this Chamber is important. It is widely monitored and it is also important that this debate also spreads to the rest of society as a result of this debate that we have started, because in this area and in order to eradicate this phenomenon, information and open debate are particularly important. We must send a clear message here on behalf of the girls so that it is not clear to anyone that mutilation is not accepted in Finnish society. As has already been said here, all these speeches, which have been made here, have taken this issue very seriously. Although mutilation is already prohibited and punishable under current criminal law, since we are well aware that mutilation is still taking place, it is quite clear that this current system does not work. According to THL estimates, between 600 and 3,000 girls in Finland are at risk of being mutilated, and we cannot accept this, of course. It is quite clear that we have failed to protect these girls. In practice, it is precisely here that we have a duty to find out all the ways in which mutilation can be prevented, whether there is a need for a completely new separate legislation to prevent it, or for us to introduce all the means that can already be put in place within the framework of the current legislation to prevent this phenomenon. It is quite confusing that in Finland, where there is a progressive maternity clinic system and very progressive school health care and professionals practically meet every year all families with children and children and young people in Finland, we have still not been able to address this phenomenon. It is quite confusing that in Finland, which is a model country for the collection of health data and statistics, we do not really know how many girls have been mutilated here. Only this year, for example, has the question of mutilation been added to the school health survey. Is it possible that we didn't want to know? Has it been easier to close your eyes to this truly brutal phenomenon? That is what we have to admit. We need more information and training for professionals. We must ensure that all professionals are aware of this obligation to speak and of the obligation to notify which they already have. It is indeed an obligation for those working in the clinic and in early childhood education to raise this issue whenever they meet families with children there. Of course, we must ensure that professionals have sufficient resources to allow them time to deal with this. This is something we can all contribute to during this autumn's debate on the budget, where the government is also seeking additional resources to deal with these issues. But thank you for this debate, and this work will continue, and at the same time I believe that we will be able to deal with this issue in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u93	Mr President! Many very good speeches have been made in the Chamber today, and I too very warmly support this citizens' initiative to ban female genital mutilation. As stated in this citizens' initiative, there are no health grounds for genital mutilation, but it only harms women and girls in numerous ways. The causes of mutilation are cultural, but its negative effects are very serious, such as severe physical pain and the risk of infection — not to mention emotional trauma: they can extend to the rest of the person’s life. This is a comprehensive violation of human rights that should under no circumstances be allowed in Finland. Mr President! Even if mutilation fulfils the hallmark of abuse in accordance with the Criminal Code, this adoption of the citizens' initiative would send a clear signal that mutilation is not acceptable in any way in Finnish society. And, as has been mentioned many times here today, there is also a need to provide adequate and effective means for healthcare staff and, on the other hand, an unambiguous obligation to act in situations where they perceive the threat of mutilation or the act that has already taken place. Passive attitude is no longer enough. Mr President! It should be noted that: In the Nordic countries only in Finland, female genital mutilation has not been sanctioned by a separate law, as has been done in several dozen other countries in the world. This lack of Finnish legislation must be remedied very quickly, and the ban must also apply to mutilations carried out abroad, and the penalties for mutilating and promoting it must be very substantial in order to prevent these criminal acts. And in this respect, both Parliament and the government must be very active. Mr President! I hope that this citizens' initiative will receive a swift, fair and successful parliamentary debate and this debate will lead to the adoption of a separate law prohibiting mutilation. Finally, I would like to thank the author of the citizens' initiative and all its signatories.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u94	Mr President! Just over a hundred years ago, during the years of the fate of our country, Finland was a pioneer on a world scale. Among the first countries here in Finland, women were given the right to vote. At the time, our ancestors and ancestors took as their guiding principles an equal, civilised Finland and wanted to start building a country where everyone would be happy to have. It seems to me that it did not occur to them that in more than a hundred years' time, there would be a debate here in Parliament about whether or not to mutilate girls. Well, fortunately, in the light of the debate, there seems to be a great deal of agreement on the validity of this act itself, but the question of whether this should be specifically sanctioned by the penal code seems to be a little vague in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u97	Mr President! Female genital mutilation is a serious violation of human rights and violence against girls and women. I would like to stress that what makes this a particularly glaring form of violence is that it restricts the autonomy and sexuality of girls by causing permanent injury. According to UN children's rights, all children are entitled to physical immunity. In Finland, according to the Supreme Court, female genital mutilation is comparable to aggravated assault and under no circumstances can it be accepted or justified, not on religious or other social grounds. I think that there has been a good talk here today about the importance of prevention, and it is now up to us to find out what the most effective means of preventing this form of violence against women and girls in this time period are. Now we find out what those means are. They may be widespread — is it a separate criminalisation, is investing in knowledge a better resource, is it improving access to assistance and identifying cases? This is a very important issue and the fact that it is now being clarified will then give us a better opportunity to respond to this. We took this issue seriously in the government programme. We have recorded that a national programme to combat violence against women is being drawn up and that resources are being secured specifically for the fight against genital mutilation. I would also like to remind you that I think it is important for us to remember that human rights organisations, the third sector, have, for a very long time now, important and valuable research information on this subject and views that we need to listen to. Finally, I would like to say that, when we have discussed what we can talk about, that we can talk about all the problems, but we can also talk about all the problems in such a way as to respect human dignity and respect other people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u98	Mr President! I too agree with what has been said today about the fact that this ban on female genital mutilation is an absolute problem. It has already been said very clearly here that violence against women, against girls, their sexuality is being restricted here, can, frankly, be said in this way, and, as has already been said in the previous speech, this is also a question of physical integrity. It is a very important and wonderful thing that this is on the agenda. Why is this a sensitive question? This is also partly the so-called phenomenon of cultural encounters. We often find ourselves in situations where people from different cultures behave in a certain way, in a different way. We are in positions where we must also try to understand one another in the fact that our standards and conduct are different. At this point, however, it is no longer a question of meeting cultures, two angles. First of all, it is a question of Finland, and Finland operates on the basis of the basic conditions of Finnish culture and legislation, and everyone who lives and works in this country operates on these grounds. Secondly, as has been said several times in these speeches, this is in fact also a question of human rights, and human rights are basically issues which are no longer culturally-related, but are universal, and here we are at a point where it is not possible to take a look at this issue from the angle of the theme of cultural pluralism, but rather a fundamental human right, and that is why it is absolutely necessary to act in the direction that has been followed today by good speeches. One more thing that made me come to this Chamber, apart from wanting to say these things from my own point of view, is that I respect colleagues and, although they are relatively few here today, there has been a debate on the citizens' initiative. I have also been in this situation myself, sometimes starting a citizens' initiative and getting it through — not through a parliamentary debate, but through a difficult theme, and I do not want to start dealing with it now, but I just want to say that it is wonderful that the citizens' initiative is given this space, its value. People in Finland have been through this very much. They have signed the initiative, it has come to us, and it is right that Parliament should deal with citizens' initiatives with the degree of seriousness they deserve. This thematically deserves proper treatment and, in principle, respect for citizens' initiatives, and it is good that this debate has taken place here today.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u99	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. The debate was suspended at the plenary session on 6 September 2019 and the debate is now continuing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u100	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! We must also respect the legislative proposals made by our representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u103	Mr President! I think that the common task of all of us, and also the common interest of all of us, is to defend democracy and the legitimacy of our parliamentary system. At the same time, however, it is not enough for us to defend existing democratic practices, but we also need to constantly improve our system in order to increase democracy and make it more practical. I think that this initiative by Mr Honkasalo is very important, and I myself would regard it as an act of democracy in particular, that we should have such a budget ceiling for electoral campaigns in our electoral funding law. It will not remedy all the problems that have arisen with regard to electoral funding and which were raised here in the previous debate, but it will affect the problem that individual campaigns are simply too large in terms of funding, because these huge campaign budgets are actually a real problem. They undermine people's equal participation and it is just not right that the campaign volumes of hundreds of thousands of euros can in practice influence the outcome of the elections. For some, these campaign costs even prevent it from running. Of course, we must try to minimise the impact of the socio-economic background on people's opportunities to participate. As already stated in our current electoral funding law, this law is intended to ‘restrict the increase in the costs of election campaigns for candidates’. In practice, this overall ceiling, which is now being proposed in this draft law, would serve the purpose of this current law. At the end of the day, it is therefore a question of this initiative seeking to make progress in terms of equality between men and men in terms of political participation. This is a very important issue and that is why I, at least, warmly support this motion by Mr Honkasalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u104	Mr President! Can you buy a congressman's seat with money? I'm saying there's a lot of chance. We are now dealing with a legislative initiative on electoral funding, which is of historic importance, and through such a new law we can restore the whole of Finnish democracy. Here in Parliament there are only four new MPs, whose incomes The Evening-Says reported that they had fallen below the threshold of EUR 14750 per year based on the data of the previous tax year. This in itself highlights the distortion that is puzzling in our representative democracy in Finland. For example, if this 200-person group were to represent the people evenly according to income levels, 24 low-income people would have reached this hall in last spring's Parliamentary elections, as according to the latest Statistics Finland's report, there were 12.1 per cent of low-income people in Finland and low-income people are on the increase. But there were only four people who wanted low incomes instead of 24. According to the evening Sanomat story, Bella Forsgrén, 27-year-old Greens, rose from low income to Parliament. Both of us belong to a young generation, which is also under-represented here in Parliament in addition to low incomes, and that is no wonder — one third of all low incomes are 18 to 34 years old. This bill is not about party politics, but we should all work together to remedy this problem. In the Parliamentary elections of 2019, candidates spent an average of EUR 35,000 on their election campaign. At its highest, the Parliament has come in, for seven representatives, with a budget of more than EUR 100000. I will not name names because it is not relevant here, but I signed a bill because I want to change the system that allows this. Election funding in its current form is even more problematic. It is a pity that the coalition and the left-wing parties are not prepared to address all the shortcomings, but only those who touch the other side. If all Finnish children were given exactly the same opportunities to live, it would be more justified to say that by pouring their own earned money in the run-up to the elections, one could gain a significant competitive advantage for others. The reality is, however, that some of us are born to rich families, others even rich families in Finnish-Swedish countries, where they have the biggest foundation money in Finland to support their campaigns, as long as we remember to support forced Swedish. Some of us, on the other hand, are born into poor families, single mothers, children of addicts, hearing limitations, and so on. Then the starting points are different. In turn, the left side seems blind to the money, networks and farms provided by the trade union side. In last spring’s parliamentary elections, the Ay movement’s 1.4 million giant support through the Freedom Reich campaign guaranteed that the SDP button, with only 7,000 votes, rose to the Prime Minister’s party by the Basic Finns. In this way, it is easy to look both ways, left and right, and ask: Why do you not agree to see the problems associated with your election funding? On average, we Finnish MPs had the lowest election budgets of all parties. I myself made it to this hall with the smallest budget in my constituency. From time to time, someone in this Parliament comes from other parties to say that you cannot represent the people in dress like that. To them, I would very much like to say to them that I can. I am speaking on behalf of the homeless, many people with problems, whom the City Councillor in Oulu called ‘human trash’. That's what I do in the council, and that's one of the reasons I got into this Parliament. In practice, the legislative initiative under discussion would enable more and more unemployed people, students, young people and pensioners to get up here in Parliament to talk about things that do not come up sufficiently.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u105	Mr President! This initiative is an important objective. How Finnish democracy works, how the rule of law works, how democracy works, the centenary of the centenary could not disagree with the objective. I am not going to knock this initiative out and I am not going to stand up for it directly. I will now leave it to the committee to consider and toss in some ideas what might be worth considering in committee when they start to deal with the matter. First of all, I will take from here the concept of freedom of expression that we have in the Constitution. That is because each of us has the right to receive, transmit and send messages without prejudice to anyone. Now, if we do a campaign cap, it would be reasonable, at the very least, to find out whether this has any connection with freedom of expression. As far as I can see, it must also be looked at from that point of view. Everyone also has the right to use the euro for paid communications and, if it is restricted, it will certainly deal with freedom of expression. It is clear from the point of view of the functioning of democracy and from the point of view of passing through it, as the initiative says, and it has been said in these speeches that the greater the budget, the greater the probability of going through. The second aspect of this passing is then the issue of who has the greatest opportunity to have their own agenda visible in the media. I believe that, and indeed I am quite certain that the Members of this House are more in a position to have their press releases, their views, their opinions in the media than candidates who are not MPs. And now, if we set a campaign ceiling, then we will at the same time betonaise the possibility for Members of Parliament who sit at least partially on this task, that is to say, against that background, the objective of achieving and extending democracy does not necessarily work in the way the author has thought. The aim was probably not to concreteise the role of the Members of Parliament sitting in Parliament. It's good to have a change of pace. Then there will be visibility in various social media channels, on websites run by different lobbyists, different foundations, associations, influence groups that can then offer visibility free of charge. If it is offered free of charge, of course, it will affect the kind of visibility and the kind of support the candidate may receive. How, then, will it be valued? Is it the case, then, that if there are good channels, good lobby groups, then it is quite acceptable that there should be more free publicity? If there's no such background, then there won't be. This is also something to think about. Deliveries have the power to decide whose opinions they publish, whose opinions they fail to publish, whose quotes they use, who they fail to use, whose opinions they get out in the media. I would argue that a large provincial newspaper will be able to drop the MP and with a very high probability that the planned work will also be able to make the MP. This has happened, and this will certainly happen in the future. If we set up a campaign ceiling, this too should be affected, and I would not open the gate so that we leave here to tell them how to handle the cases. We would intervene in editorial freedom, we would intervene in media freedom of speech, freedom of writing and the right to do the valuable work they do. Also, it contains dead spots, such as the fact that the person paying the declaration must be visible. In many adverts there is nothing, or there is someone very special behind the ry, someone from the representative support group, who supports this campaign. In many cases, its information value is close to zero. It's the kind of thing that if you want to hold on to this, you have to get some clarifications on it. It does not tell voters anything if it says that someone on behalf of Finland ry or on behalf of the Right cause ry supports this campaign or has paid for this announcement. Doesn't tell me anything. [KimmoKiljuen intermediate call] If, of course, someone can say from my own background that it is right then to have mists and athletes and other celebrities in Parliament: Well, I have an athlete's background. Of course, there are other backgrounds. I now draw this connection to the fact that if an athlete were told that before the Olympic Games or the Valuable Games, each athlete will be allowed to practice a certain number of hours per month or a certain number of kilometres per month, then would it be correct? Everyone can put themselves on the line. Of course, from my own background, I have to say that the electoral budgets that I myself have had to put my own money into have been excessive, but of course it is my choice. Not everyone has that chance.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u106	Madam President! First of all, this bill by Mr Honkasalo is an absolutely interesting, useful debate here and is supported by its fundamental principles. We are clearly the country of these plundering electoral budgets. From one election to another, personal election budgets are growing. I am not quite sure about the one item relating to making the obligation of prior notification compulsory, whether or not it is once again an overshooting of red tape on this point. What is essential in any case is that this is a transparent system in the longer run and sees the level of the overall budget, and in that respect this idea of having an electoral roof must be seriously considered. Mr Tynkkynen made an interesting analysis here, compared the income levels of the Parliament in relation to low incomes and high incomes, and probably correctly analysed the fact that these 200 MPs from their income levels do not represent one nation to another. We do not have the lowest income population here to the extent that people on low incomes are in Finland. Mr Tynkkynen referred to young people in his speech. That is certainly the case. We know the financial difficulties of young people at the moment. But another group, which is equally weak in terms of average income, has pensioners, and their share of the population in this Chamber is not the proportion of older people in Finnish society,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u115	We have a joint agreement, the Council of Presidents defines, always tells, and these have been agreed together. It is certainly good to re-inform the representatives. There are representatives here who have started now in the spring, so it is good to make these clear once again on paper to the representatives. But don't worry, let's move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u116	Madam President! I would like to comment here on the arguments raised by a few representatives in relation to this election funding and the campaign ceiling. Firstly, Mr Kiuru, you pointed out that freedom of expression could be jeopardised if the campaign ceiling were introduced. But now that we are talking about spending money, that is different from expressing opinions. In other words, you also have the opportunity in your own constituency, even if every day, for example, in your own free time, you have the opportunity to be in the marketplaces, in the suburbs, in other places, to share that co-operative message or to write as much as you like on social media as you want, or to write in the newspapers. So that freedom of expression will not be jeopardised if a particular campaign budget is put in place, so that it does not go too far by the fact that there is a competitive advantage for another through it. Well, when you mentioned it too, you talked about who actually has the opportunity to get that agenda through, so I have to say that now that we are still living in 2019, we also have to consider legislation from this day forward. When we have social media, we can say that we are no longer limited in that way, but that anyone can become an influence and thus get these views moving. When you also spoke from the point of view that the deliveries would have the power to drop a congressman, I do believe in such a way that the deliveries do not fall or actually lift anyone. If you look at my own party and what has been done in general studies on what kind of values media have in principle, we have found that the media is tilted to liberal and red-green values, and we have experienced that the news of the Finns of Peru has perhaps been a little more critical in this past ten years than it has been in the case of red-greens, for example, and despite the fact that from one election to another we have done so-called thunder. And despite the criticism of a particular party, however, I would see that journalists do not, in principle, start to choose who is being raised and who is not. I do not know whether this has been the case in the old days, whether, at some point in time, some big jams have experienced that we must now exercise power in this way, that when we can do so we will, but I do not think that this is the way journalists are doing today. Representative Kiljunen highlighted the role of this Ay movement. You spoke of the fact that if this campaign roof comes, it will also come in the same way to the ay movement, which means that it will not be able to finance it. But now we have to remember that there is indeed the direct funding that comes to the support association in that campaign fund, but what we are talking about when we criticise this blind corner of the left is that the Ay movement organises various events that the candidates can then go to. When you book market places, you pay for them, you buy tents and they are maintained, you buy lunch there, you arrange events and so on, you can't actually mark it for any individual candidate in that election funding announcement, and so it's like this kind of support that doesn't show up. And about this, in fact, VTV has just commented that this is about this kind of untransparent election support and this should be addressed. Well, then, at the last part-session, when this matter was discussed, Mr Heinonen pointed out that if you cannot spend enough money, then the Dance with the Stars and others will bring people to this Parliament. I must also say that I do not see any sense in these arguments that anyone can get up here. [KimmoKiljuen intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u117	President! Perhaps now I can continue as the instruction came this way, so that I prefer to use the follow-up speech. Indeed, it would be excellent if we were to have precise instructions, because they have changed along these journeys, and then it would be good for the representative to know these rules so that they will not be broken in vain or at least be able to build up their speeches correctly. The role of the media has yet to be considered whether the media can raise candidates, count candidates, remain silent about some candidates or political actors completely, or bring up themes that are one of the most important themes in the movement and that are strongly visible, and do not talk about other themes at all. And the media can do this. The mainstream media can do this and the mainstream media can do this. I do not want to go into detail now because they are easily caught, but if an objective analysis is made of the Finnish media climate and how it works in relation to individual people, political actors in this kingdom, there is a very clear hierarchy here. It is not just a question of the Prime Minister being regularly seen or the ministers being regularly seen, and the members of the ranks being less visible, but it is reflected in many other activities. If we do this analysis carefully, it is clear in this Chamber that there are a lot of people here who have been given publicity through the powers of certain media houses in these areas and through themes that are so-called'sexy' and which are in this house. In other words, the media is leading the creation of a reality picture in Finland that appears to people as reality, and in representative democracy people are forced to vote through this reality image. I will leave this wording abstract, but an accurate analysis would be absolutely absolute in this matter. This is not just a phenomenon affecting Finland at all; it is a huge challenge for Western democracy as a whole. I do not need to start talking here about the Brexit and the outcome of what process it is, the outcome of the debate over a period of 10 to 15 years. When it is discussed, then we will see how that exercise of power takes place in this regard. This is a sacred taboo that Members of Parliament in general are afraid to touch, and it is just forced to dare some to say when it is a fact and it has a decisive effect. This was interesting, as Mr Tynkkynen has pointed out here: the indirect support that left-wing representatives have received, for example, at trade union events, where a representative with a left-wing background can go more easily than a representative with a social democratic background. But so do we have other interest groups, and we have other NGOs, and so do we have other players in society, and also at their events people go with their own stakeholders and thus receive the support that this stakeholder provides by organising an opportunity that can be political or less political in nature.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u118	Madam President! Good speeches, Mr Tynkkynen and Mr Kiljunen. It's nice to have this conversation. This is a very important matter in principle: where is the power, who gets a voice, who gets a voice in this house, who ultimately decides on what comes into the government programme, how is the design of the government programme recorded, whether they come directly from the records of some lobbyist group, what things are raised in the media and so on. We're at the very heart of what's really important. Mr Tynkkynen highlighted the growing importance of social media channels. There is no denying it, is there? Social media channels are an important means of making their voices heard. The media also use them as sources and then go to see which subject is drawing, what is worth writing about, what is of interest to the public, what hashtags are hot today and what is not hot. But at the same time, it must also be remembered that these social media channels do not reach all Finns. We still have about 500,000 Finns who are digitally illiterate because of their own desire or other reasons they do not have the opportunity or wish to use digital channels. For them, the most important and important way to obtain information is through magazines, TV and radio. They follow it, and they live in that world. There is nothing wrong with it, but from the candidate’s point of view it is important to note that these people who do not know how to read or use digital or social media channels are usually older people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u119	Madam President! First of all, Mr Kiljunen: it is not just about any event that everyone could come to, but, yes, when there was an electoral process, I remember when the radio was on for quite many hours in the last election, that no radio ad played as many times as the radio advert of the Free Kingdom, which then stated that to vote for their candidate, who then lists all these candidates on the left. Therefore, this kind of money is not found in any basic organizations that could make such massive campaigns, so that I think there is a very clear difference. Then I would say to Mr Kiuru that when you talk about these voting segments, yes it is in that way — at least I myself have noticed — that older people, for example, rather than being in the market or elsewhere, can be reached much better on social media because you have to remember that many old people are in pretty poor shape, and then the idea of going and going to the market to meet politicians in general, for example, is not always possible, but the social media is able to reach you. When I was reading my own inbox, I have to say
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u120	The President did not interrupt Mr Tynky. By the way, the voice stopped. The President did the right thing, of course, according to the correct rules of the game, this was not a reproach. Yes, the Kingdom of the Freedoms — I must say that I have had nothing to do with the free kingdoms and I do not know the process that Mr Tynkkynen is talking about. It may be based on empirical experience, and I must listen with a sensitive ear to what you say. But I followed this television advertising a little, and yes I saw very clearly that if you look through it carefully with regard to television advertising, which the parties' candidates there were the strongest in the ability to make TV advertising, I would like you to draw the conclusion that I too had to draw: from right here to left the quantitative amount of television advertising — which is the most expensive part of election advertising.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u121	Madam President! If it's enough, I'll go on. We fully agree on this, Mr Kiljunen. Our criticism at that point, when we talk about hugely expensive television campaigns, hits the same target: rich people spend a lot of money, especially in the direction of the coalition. Let me repeat that the Finns of Peru had the lowest election budgets on average — even smaller than the left. We have no ay side or business lobbyists or anyone else that would give us money. We would like that system to be genuinely and genuinely changed. Then there was another point that I do not think of now — since this debate is over and I cannot say it. Well, there's nothing you can do.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u122	Madam Speaker! I would just like to say, since it has been mentioned many times here, that although I was not on the list and not a member, I just checked the Internet and found that there were 18 Finns listed as candidates in the Free Kingdom advertisements, including Laura Huhtasaari. It's also green, left-wing union, demars, and I think it's also RKP. I also looked at their programme and found that in fact they openly challenged all candidates with different questions and that candidates who were able to commit themselves to, for example, fair rules in the labour market would be advertised. Yes, there were 18 basic Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-11-ps-29.u124	Madam President! Now, however, we must remember that we must always look at these volumes, that is, whose bag it rains on. It is true that, for example, the left also has companies that support the left-wing candidates, and that is why this argument is not valid. Now we're talking about the big volume, where the money goes and what way. In relation to that, it is quite clear that its support is mainly for left-wing parties.
