ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 36/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 7 March 2019. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u2	Mr President! I'm gonna pretend that's the first time. Article 4 of Chapter 5a of the draft law Gets the shape of what's on the table with the hand-over.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u3	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u4	With the support of Mr Li Andersson, Markus Mustajärvi has proposed that the section be adopted in accordance with the amendment distributed to the representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u5	Mr President! I propose that Article 57: Gets the shape of what's on the table with the hand-over.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u6	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u7	With the support of Mr Li Andersson, Markus Mustajärvi has proposed that the section be adopted in accordance with the amendment distributed to the representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u8	Mr President! I propose that Article 19: Gets the shape of what's on the table with the hand-over.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u9	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u10	With the support of Mr Li Andersson, Markus Mustajärvi has proposed that the section be adopted in accordance with the amendment distributed to the representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u11	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Defence, PuVM 9/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 7 March 2019. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u12	Mr President! I propose that section 20: takes the form of what is in the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u13	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u14	With the support of Li Andersson, Markus Mustajärvi has proposed that the article be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u15	Mr President! I suggest that the article takes the form of what is in the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u16	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u17	With the support of Li Andersson, Markus Mustajärvi has proposed that the article be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u18	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 37/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 6 March 2019. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u19	Mr President! I suggest that the article be changed to a form of objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u20	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u21	With the support of Pia Viitanen, Timo Harakka has proposed that the article be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u22	Mr President! I would like to suggest that the article takes the form of an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u23	Madam President! I support the proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u24	With the support of Kari Uotila, Timo Harakka has proposed that the article be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u25	Mr President! I would suggest that the article takes the form of opposition objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u26	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u27	With the support of Pia Viitanen, Timo Harakka has proposed that the article be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u28	Mr President! I would like to suggest that the article takes the form of an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u29	Madam President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u30	With the support of Kari Uotila, Timo Harakka has proposed that the article be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u31	Mr President! I would suggest that this article takes the form of an objection from the Social Democrats, the Greens and the Left.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u32	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u33	With the support of Mr Yanar of Ozan, Timo Harakka has proposed that the article be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u34	Mr President! I would like to suggest that the article takes the form of an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u35	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u36	With the support of Pia Viitanen, Timo Harakka has proposed that the article be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u37	Mr President! I'm suggesting that this section will take the form of an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u38	Madam President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u39	With the support of Kari Uotila, Timo Harakka has proposed that the article be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u40	Mr President! I'm suggesting that this section will take the form of an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u41	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u42	With the support of Mr Yanar of Ozan, Timo Harakka has proposed that the article be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u43	Mr President! I would like to make a point of protest.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u44	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u45	With the support of Pia Viitanen, Timo Harakka has proposed that the article be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u46	Mr President! I would like to make an objection to the entry into force rule.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u47	Madam President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u48	With the support of Kari Uotila, Timo Harakka has proposed that the entry into force provision be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u49	Mr President! I would like to make a point of protest.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u50	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u51	With the support of Mr Yanar of Ozan, Timo Harakka has proposed that the article be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u52	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report TyVM 17/2018 vp by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 7 March 2019. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u53	Mr President! I would like to make an objection to the passage.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u54	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u55	Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen, supported by Anna Kontula, has proposed that the section be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u56	Mr President! I would like to make an objection to the passage.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u57	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u58	Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen, supported by Anna Kontula, has proposed that the section be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u59	Mr President! I would like to make an objection to the passage.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u60	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u61	Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen, supported by Anna Kontula, has proposed that the section be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u62	Mr President! I would like to make an objection to the passage.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u63	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u64	Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen, supported by Anna Kontula, has proposed that the section be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u65	Mr President! I would like to make an objection to the passage.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u66	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u67	Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen, supported by Anna Kontula, has proposed that the section be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u68	Mr President! I would like to make an objection to the passage.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u69	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u70	Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen, supported by Anna Kontula, has proposed that the section be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u71	Mr President! I would like to make an objection to the passage.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u72	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u73	Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen, supported by Anna Kontula, has proposed that the section be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u74	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 27/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 7 March 2019. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u75	Madam President! I propose that Article 119 is replaced by the receives a form in accordance with the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u76	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u77	Hanna Halmemenpää, supported by Krista Mikkonen, has proposed that the article be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u78	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 39/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u79	Madam President! Here, too, we are talking about health care, which is the theme of the day. This report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health really concerns the law on health professionals and the limited right of the nurse to prescribe medicines. I personally consider these arguments for objection to be good in this respect. This proposal would also extend the prescriber's right of prescription to home care and special medical clinics. Especially with regard to home care, this would indeed be a threat to patient safety. According to experts consulted in committee, this could also contribute to blur the nationally agreed division of responsibilities between primary health care and special care. The concern that has been raised in particular in this protest about this home care is that the change could jeopardise patient safety for its own part in home care, where it is very important that the prescription of the medicine takes place in the best interests of the patient. In these situations, the assessment of total medication and the management of drug interactions in elderly, multi-diseased patients is often a demanding task for the physician. All in all, I believe that the division of labour between the various health professionals should be kept clear. It is doctors who have been trained in diagnosis, diagnostics, and also in prescribing treatment, such as medication. In other respects too, since we want to maintain this high level of education, I think it is a problem to begin to lower the level of education that is based on prescription and diagnostics. So I support this objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u80	Let us now turn to the presentation of the report. — Please, Mr Kiuru, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u81	Mr President! This is therefore a modification of Article 23(1) of the Professionals Act. Under the current provisions, it is not possible to introduce a limited prescription of a medicinal product in the services provided by a private service provider. The proposal now proposes that the situation should change. Limited prescriptions could thus be introduced not only in the open reception units of the health centre, but also in other primary health care outpatient services and special care services that fall under the responsibility of the municipal or joint municipal authorities, and in such a way that this new limited prescription could also be applied, for example, to home medical care and specialised medical clinics. That is why the prescription of medicines is expanding in society, and in this context, when the committee has clarified the matter, it is stated first of all that the international example shows that the prescription of nurses has also been introduced in several countries and, consequently, the possibility for nurses to prescribe medicines has gradually been extended. Mr President! The committee considers this draft law to be appropriate and supports its adoption unchanged. The committee also notes, however, that it must continue to be subject to a written order by the operating doctor with conditions and, of course, to the possibility of a nurse having an immediate consultation with the doctor. The committee's expert hearings have evaluated this proposal on a number of occasions. The Committee stresses that concerns have also been raised as to how this extension of the right to prescribe medicinal products for nurses will work in the field of outpatient special care and home care services. As regards home care, it should be borne in mind that many patients are multi-diseased, so the assessment of the total medication and the combination of different diseases are challenging to consider. With regard to special medical care, the Committee would point out that this change may obscure the division of responsibilities and responsibilities between primary and specialised health care. The committee therefore concludes that it stresses that in these cases the right to prescribe medicines for nurses should be introduced on the basis of careful consideration. It may therefore be that, in reality, the application and extension of the right to prescribe medicines by nurses may be less than anticipated. The Committee also draws attention to the extended prescription procedure for services provided by vouchers. The problem in the future may be that the monitoring and self-monitoring of the prescription practice of a medicinal product is divided into the responsibility of both the organisation providing the service voucher and the body providing the services in a way that must then be careful so that the prescription procedure is monitored and self-monitored. In addition, attention must, of course, be paid to the organisation and supervision of the right to prescribe medicines for nurses. Mr President! The committee notes that in practice the responsible doctor plays an important role and thus also ensures the operation of self-monitoring and the development of skills. We have also stated that it is essential for patient safety that health care units are also obliged to draw up a plan for quality management and patient safety. We have also drawn attention to the fact that the implementation of safe medical treatment requires guidance and that the low proportion of medical subjects is taken into account in the initial training of nurses and in the further training of prescribers. In this respect, sufficient resources must also be allocated to the training of nurses, and the practical functioning of the amendment of the law must also be monitored. This issue also contains objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u82	Thank you for the introduction. — As we have to suspend this sitting, I will offer these three people who have a request to speak the answers. Do you want to use it? Let's take it in the same order: Juvonen, Sarkomaa, Rossi.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u83	Madam President! This Government proposal proposes a change so that limited prescription can be introduced not only in the open reception units of the health centre, but also in other primary health care outpatient services within the responsibility of organising the municipal or joint municipal authorities, as well as in the outpatient services of special care. So this is about the nurses. I welcome the development of cooperation between nurses and doctors, and I also welcome the fact that such prescription training is possible in Finland. In 2012, I put a written question on the resources and price of this training and how we ensure that there is sufficient training and that it is not paid by the carer itself but that the employer and the municipalities participate equally. This is a good thing, but it must be followed. Patient safety as a spearhead must go forward in all matters, and so is this, as is the whole package of social and health care. It is very important that good medical care is maintained in Finland and that the administration of medicines is in expert hands.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u84	Madam President! I'm happy to greet this bill. This is a question of extending the limited right of prescription for nurses. This is an important step forward in the work that needs to be done in social and health care. We have highly trained medical personnel who need to be used and we have very good international research data on this type of activity. It has improved patient services, it has been safe. I think it is important that the division of labour will continue to take place, and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will receive my greetings: For example, there is a very good survey of direct intake of physiotherapists from 2016. It has improved people’s services and working ability and ability to function when you have been directly admitted to physical therapists — there has been no need for surgery, no sickness allowance. In other words, nursing reception and division of labour must be promoted in all ways in social welfare and health care. Our highly trained medical staff is still an unused resource. I consider that report to be good and well-founded and I am glad that it received a majority, even though there was a hard debate in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u85	Mr President! I am also pleased that Mr Kiuru, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, was able to present at least this law and related questions at the end of this period. Mr President! Indeed, there is a big issue and a matter of principle. Both pharmaceuticals, dosage and distribution must always be managed in such a way that they are fully secure from the customer’s point of view, and in this respect specific claims must be made against them. However, I do not understand this objection which has been made in this context, because everyone knows that there are skilled people working in health care, medical staff who have the ability to see and experience things in exactly the same way — regardless of their education — as do doctors in the field. In this respect, both the government’s proposal and the opinion of the committee are all right, and the explanatory memorandum states, inter alia, that ‘enlargement of the prescriber’s prescription of a medicinal product is proposed to speed up access to treatment and treatment for patients,improve the quality of treatment,enhanced the functioning of the health service units and,therefore,releases doctors’ work to more professionallyrequired tasks’. These arguments are quite correct, and in this respect, this proposal is certainly in order. Thank you in this respect for the fact that Parliament will in some respects complete its work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u86	This matter will be suspended in the light of the meeting of the large committee. The plenary session will be adjourned and resumed at 3.30 p.m. after the big committee meeting.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u87	We shall now resume today the sitting adjourned at 1.34 p.m. and the 8th item on the agenda. The general discussion will continue. Representative Juvonen — gone.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u88	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 23/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u89	Mr President! There is a report by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the bankruptcy law, on a new reform of the bankruptcy law as a whole. In committee, many experts welcomed this presentation. It clarifies the responsibilities of the bankruptcy estate and speeds up proceedings. Originally, the government's proposal also included an environmental liability clause, but the hearing showed that the adequacy of this level of responsibility had to be reviewed by the Constitutional Committee, and the Constitutional Committee then came to the conclusion that the section on environmental liability was not in line with Article 20 of the Constitution. Article 20 of the Constitution protects our common environment and, in itself, the Constitutional Committee was an historic one, since for the first time this Article 20 of the Constitution came there, treated and tested like this. The environmental liability clause in itself is indeed necessary because its aim is to reduce disputes arising from an unclear legal situation and also to prevent the worsening of serious environmental risks or situations that have already arisen by showing responsibility in certain situations to the bankruptcy estate and at the same time allocating costs more fairly. In the event of bankruptcy, it is very important to ensure that the environmental liability issues of a company do not fall under the responsibility of the state or of the public, but remain the responsibility of the actors who have caused them. This government proposal had raised this level of environmental responsibility to a very high level. The question was that only in such a situation should environmental liability be taken into account if it threatens to cause ‘serious harm to health’ and everyone understands that it is very difficult to define,however,a serious health risk to health. One concrete example of environmental liabilities is the situation of the Hitura mine, where the Sipilä Government has paid more than EUR 16 million for waste from the Hitura mine that has gone bankrupt, because environmental responsibility has already fallen into the arms of the state and is being dealt with. The committee decided to give a boost stating that ‘the government requires the preparation of provisions on the environmental liability of the exchangerate base, which are balanced in taking account of both the right of creditors
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u90	Madam President! It is good that this bankruptcy bill is now in this Chamber in the debate and is moving towards the adoption of the law. This has been a long process for us in the Committee on Legal Affairs. For a while we were waiting for that opinion from the Constitutional Committee, and it was a good thing that we finally got it on the congested side of the Constitutional Committee. As Mr Karimäki said earlier, this is a historic change in Article 20 of the Constitution, precisely in relation to these environmental responsibilities, and that is why this proposal has received support. But we then found ourselves in a special situation with this proposal, because this was linked to the bankruptcy protection of regional businesses, which then had to be removed in committee because, with the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we said that we had very little time and we had not had any hearings on this issue at all. But since that principle itself and its historical and environmental aspects were so important, it is good that we got this done in part. And when today's life, the fall of the wars and even the fall of the government have suddenly come to an end, I would say that it is all the more important that we were able to remove those provincial attachments from the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u91	Mr President! Indeed, the fact that we have completed the bankruptcy law as the committee's final work is an important issue in facilitating bankruptcy in the future, and the fact that environmental responsibilities are more seriously taken into account in the responsibilities of the bankruptcy estate is a very important issue. Today a new red book of endangered species was published, and our environment is in a truly alarming state. We need to review all our legislation from the point of view of how sustainable it is from an environmental point of view. Well, now that this bankruptcy law, which in itself is an improvement on the current situation, is exhausted by this issue of environmental responsibility, how will we proceed in practice? In practice, for example, the guidelines of the Supreme Administrative Court continue to guide the definition of environmental responsibilities, even though the situation is still unclear that there is no such definition of legislation. Indeed, the bankruptcy law remained in the last mets, partly because the bankruptcy law also contained a clause that would have provided bankruptcy protection for regional businesses, and this would have required EU notification so that the law could be taken forward in that way. It is now a good thing that we unanimously received this draft bankruptcy law for Parliament in this very form and with it in mind that environmental liability issues will be prepared for the next Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u92	Madam President! This amendment to the legislation before us is certainly necessary and justified. I myself would like to draw attention to this very situation today, where it seems that there are constitutional problems arising from the interpretation of the Constitutional Committee in an increasing number of legislative proposals that are being discussed in this House. Today we have a very short schedule in this sitting, but when I look at what is on the table here, there is a working time law, which was in the Constitutional Committee, there is a fishing law, which was in the Constitutional Committee, there are the intelligence laws, which were in the Constitutional Committee twice, and of course today's big news is the collapse of the reform of the social welfare and the province and the request for the resignation of the government. Personally, I would like to remind you that the solutions of the Constitutional Committee in interpreting the Constitution are always interpretations. Of course, the Constitutional Committee does not make them in any vacuum, but the views and interpretations of the experts used by the Constitutional Committee, the constitutional experts who are very few in this country, naturally play a major role in the work of the Constitutional Committee. When more and more laws, more and more reforms, have come into contact with the Constitution — or at least it is seen as necessary to request the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs — I think it is appropriate to ask whether the existing interpretation of the Constitutional Committee is correct or whether it is too strict when more and more laws are being sent to the Constitutional Committee and there are constitutional problems in these laws. I do not now take a position on the interpretation of Article 20 of the Constitutional Treaty by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has been stated here. I would just like to say that it is a new line and, for its part — right or wrong, I am not taking a position on it — there is yet another way to tighten up the interpretation of the Constitution. I would like to emphasise that the Constitution itself does not provide any solutions to the problems of the provinces, of the wars, of the fishing law or of the working time law, and so on, but that is all an interpretation. And that is natural, that is what legalism is, but this should be admitted and seen with open eyes, and it should also be seen as possible to have a less restrictive interpretation in the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u93	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz spoke on the Constitution and its interpretation. It has to be said that the Constitution is the foundation and foundation of a strong democracy, which prevents the government from making changes that would be contrary to the Constitution during one parliamentary term. After all, the Constitution has been born over the decades, and it will be changed with caution during the two parliamentary term. And as far as intelligence laws, for example, are concerned, our strong constitution has brought about a very high quality and high quality handling of intelligence laws and has ensured a good level of intelligence, security issues for our people, but also human rights and fundamental rights issues in a sustainable way. In other words, the fact that Finland is constitutional and the Constitution is a red thread in the legislative and parliamentary process is a good thing in our democracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u94	Madam President! I agree with Mr Karimäki on the nature and importance of the Constitution. Of course, the Constitution also limits the legislator's discretion: the Constitution states that fundamental rights of citizens and other fundamental principles against which the legislator cannot act, not to mention civil servants or judicial bodies. The question of how narrow these limits to the discretion of the legislator are or how loose they are is an interpretation, and this was the essence of my speech. In our Constitution, in addition to safeguarding the fundamental rights of citizens, the so-called principle of democracy is a fundamental principle. It is a very central element of our constitution — the Constitution, the representative you have just praised. And this principle of democracy is based on the fact that the government belongs to a people represented by the Parliament, and Parliament has legislative power, which, of course, as I said, is limited, for example, by respect for the fundamental rights of citizens. It is not a question of a constitution, it is a question of interpretation all the time. If the fundamental rights instruments in the Constitution are interpreted very strictly or are widely stated — that is the same thing here, although it may sound like a paradox — the wider the interpretation of these fundamental rights, the narrower the margin of discretion for the legislator. And yet the legislator's discretion, the right to legislate in Finland as a parliament elected by the people sees fit, is a central part of our democracy. I am not going to go into detail, but let us take, for example, this customer plan in the social welfare reform. The Constitution does not say anything about the client plan, and if there had been no client plan in this Freedom of Choice Act, no constitutional expert would have come to the Constitutional Committee to say that this law is against the Constitution when there is no client plan here. But let it be when it had a client plan, then these same constitutional experts came to tell us that here with this client plan there is a major constitutional problem — either that it is not binding, or that it is not clear enough, and so on — and then the Committee on Constitutional Affairs issued an opinion to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, in which it saw that there are constitutional irregularities in this client plan. So, Mr Karimäki, we agree with the importance of the Constitution and the importance of protecting fundamental rights, but I also stress the principle of democracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u95	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 24/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u96	Madam President! This is about tightening the penalties for sexual crimes against children, and this reform is very welcome. These crimes, which are most horrendous, must become more serious penalties. I am very pleased that, under this pressure of time, the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs has brought this matter to a decision here in the Chamber. And I am very pleased that Minister Antti: In due course, he has brought this motion to extort the punishments for sexual crimes against children. Minister Häkkänen's legal policy or, it is said, the criminal policy line, which puts the victim's experience and legal security more at the centre of the protection of its criminal legal protection, and which seeks to punish such disgusting crimes of violence and sexual offences, is absolutely justified and good. I cannot help but note that in the public debate and also here, mainly by the Greens and the Left Alliance, it is often emphasised that harsher penalties do nothing and that prison does not cure anyone. But let it be, when it comes to sexual crimes against children and women, then these red - green lawyers and their family members will turn their sleds around and then, in these crimes against children and women, it will help to harden the penalties. The same goes for the victim's position. When much has been said about improving the status of the victim, there has been little interest in it and emphasis has been placed on the legal protection of the suspected offender. But now that an investigation has been carried out into the unfortunate situation of the victims of rape, it is now understood that there is much to improve the legal position of the victims in particular. They are not only victims of rape, who suffer from the fact that the status of the victim is not sufficiently taken into account, but also victims of quite ordinary stabbings or other beatings or property offences are in exactly the same position,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u97	Madam Speaker! There was a desire in the Legal Committee to increase the penalties for sexual crimes more than the government's proposal. The Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs therefore proposes that Parliament decides to require the future government to tighten the penalties for sexual offences against children. This requirement is included in the proposal for a statement in the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and It's good in this show. In the performance, a gross form of child rape is carried out in such a way that it contributes to the strengthening of penalties, even though the amount of child rape is only to be seen in the future. However, the offender who commits the same act of aggravated rape and aggravated sexual abuse of a child will continue to be convicted of the crime. The True Finns are pleased that this gross form of child rape is added to the law and its minimum punishment is four years. This is a step in the right direction. However, it is disappointing to the Finns that the minimum punishment for sexual abuse of a child is not now increasing. It is not until the elections that other parties have come to the fore. The next government must carry out the tougher penalties immediately at the beginning of the parliamentary term. After all, the Finns of Peru submitted a bill on the matter back in 2015, and the initiative was supported by a majority in Parliament. However, Prime Minister Sipilä's government never made a proposal from the government. The Legal Committee could not now, as agreed by parliamentary groups, increase the minimum penalty for sexual abuse of a child to two years. The reason was that constitutional experts saw the withdrawal as potentially unconstitutional. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs no longer had time to deal with this issue, because it took time to deal with these social and regional legislation, even though we all know what happened to these social and regional laws — it was a waste of time — but therefore no legislative amendment could be made, because there was no certainty as to its constitutionality. The penalty for aggravated child sexual abuse has not yet been lifted. The basic Finns see the main reason for these timetable problems that the Sipilä Government did not make a proposal earlier and that other parties did not get into the situation until the elections and after the events in Oulu.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u98	Let us respond: Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u99	Madam President! I can't wait to say what I just said about the interpretation of the Constitution. Finland is — and I dare say so, although I have not studied it — the only country in the world, probably in a world where the blackmail of sexual crimes against children is seen as a constitutional issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u102	Where do you think we're going to start? I think it is unreasonable that the representative should: Tavio here accuses all the other parties that this raising of the lower limits, the tightening of the penalties for these sexual crimes against the child, would be the fault of all the other parties, and instead this would have been dealt with by the Basic Finns. I would remind you that from the beginning of this reign, the Finns of Finland had a Minister of Justice for Justice for the next two years and this citizens' initiative to raise the lower limits, which is also in this debate, came to this Parliament as early as 2015. Unfortunately, the Finnish Minister did not go into it at the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u103	Madam President! To make it clear that constitutional experts did not see the problem of raising this penalty scale, but that it would be raised so much in relation to other penalties. And as Mrs Zyskowicz is well aware, this principle of proportionality is here, namely that they saw that the change is so significant in relation to other legislation that it needs to be assessed from a constitutional point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u104	Madam President! I say again: Finland is probably the only country in the world to consider how much punishment for sexual crimes against children can be increased in relation to penalties for other crimes, a constitutional question will be put on this issue. I don't know any other country, and I don't think there is one. The question of what is fair punishment, what is proportionate punishment, is precisely the consideration for which there is a Parliamentary Legal Committee here. And ultimately, what is proportionate punishment and what is just punishment is decided by Parliament, which, in accordance with the principle of democracy, is subject to legislation. Now I am not talking about a theoretical extreme case that someone proposes a death sentence or something — let's forget about this extreme thinking — but about normal legislation: the Legal Committee decides, the Chamber decides.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u105	Reply to Mr Laukkanen. Did Mr Karimäki also have a reply? — First Laukkanen and then Karimäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u106	Madam President! I would therefore like to reiterate that this was only a question of proportionality with regard to the rest of the penalty scale and other crimes — not of whether these penalties could be increased. The entire Committee on Legal Affairs was completely unanimous that it should be lifted, which is why you recorded these efforts. But more experts pointed out that it must then be in relation to other provisions on punishment. This was the content. They did not even comment on the need to increase the penalty scales for children, but on the fact that the change is so significant and that there is some kind of proportionality in relation to other penalties. That is what it was all about — that the listener does not now have the wrong idea. I'm not defending anyone here. I'm just saying this about that conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u107	Representative Karimäki has the answer first.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u108	Mr President! The whole Committee on Legal Affairs had a strong will and a desire to protect the child, and we would have liked to have made all the changes and blackmails from the same seat, but when at the last minute of the proceedings this opinion of the constitutional experts came to the conclusion that the matter should be reviewed by the Constitutional Committee, as Mr Laukkanen said, we were, in that sense, forced to send a citizens' initiative to the Constitutional Committee. Finally, we ended up pulling it out of there, because we wanted this Parliament to deal with these issues and make the changes that are now improving the child's position to some extent, and we are giving the incoming Parliament even bigger improvements so that sensitive and vulnerable children can be protected from this disgusting violence.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u109	Madam President! I myself would like to comment on this. However, I think that it is a little unreasonable to blame the Constitutional Committee and the constitutional experts for this, because you have previously referred to the war, such as the client plan and so on, and the proposals have been incomplete and have become clear from the constitutional experts, in what way they should be corrected — for example, we in the StV have repeatedly stated that, although freedom of choice and regional government are not constitutional but the way in which the proposals have been made — and they have not been corrected, although many times the problems have been raised. In the same way, in this presentation, Mr Häkkänen has brought only a small part and has not brought about an overall reform, i.e. the proposal should be complete and well drafted, but now the fact that parts and other elements are being brought here poses these constitutional challenges from the perspective of the whole. So with better preparation and this being taken into account, let us avoid this pecking.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u110	Then Tavio also had a reply, please, and Zyskowicz and everyone had — great!
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u111	Madam Speaker! This increase in the minimum sentence for two years: it really brings the limit of absolute imprisonment so close that these experts feel that it will then change this dynamic. That was their argument aside, not mine. And I see it as a problem, and the Finns of Peru also see it as a problem that the Constitution is almost interpreted from an ideological point of view, and we are faced with these wonderful situations in which these constitutional experts, as it were, hijack democracy for themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u112	Mr President! I have no criticism of the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs. I am simply saying in my own opinion that the question of what is a fair punishment for a crime, the question of whether it is proportionate to some other punishments, is precisely the kind of consideration that every Parliament is making when it comes to adopting criminal law, and in our system, considering this is a matter for the Parliamentary Committee on Laws and, ultimately, the decision belongs here, in the great Chamber of Parliament. The fact that there has been a constitutional issue about it, that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs should consider whether the right punishment is one year or two years or three years in relation to other penalties, is an absurd idea. What fundamental rights are violated? Does the offender, the rapist of a child, have a right to a certain maximum, so that if a higher penalty is left, his fundamental rights are violated? That's ridiculous.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u113	And then there were the answers. Who wants to use it?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u114	Madam President! With reference to these previous contributions, I am sure that we fully agree in this Chamber, everyone, that nothing is more disgusting than sexually tampering with a child, especially very young children. It will have consequences for the rest of that child’s life, and it may be very damaging. It is therefore very important that these penalties for sexual crimes against children be tightened. Then we tighten them from the top or the bottom, it is a clear signal that it is in no way acceptable and it cannot be easily survived. Regrettably, it has often been the case that, in the end, the sentences have been suspended, not even prison sentences, the child has been damaged and, of course, also the victim. But then, over and over again, there is the courage to take these risks from those who sexually exploit them because those penalties are very small. The need for this legislation as a whole arose from a public case, which shook everyone's sense of justice, in which a ten-year-old child was raped but was interpreted as abuse in accordance with the letter of the law, because the child had not itself denied this sexual activity. That is why, in the work of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, we have considered it very important that the lack of consent be recorded in that law. And that would have been very important, which was also recorded in the ponies, that always sexual contact, having sex, having sex with a child is rape when it comes to a clearly small, immature child. What is sad is that this presentation was indeed incomplete, this did not involve raising the lower limits. I remember that when this motion was here in a delegation debate in Parliament, I personally asked Minister Häkkkäs why the lower limits are not raised. At the moment, the threshold for this gross sexual abuse of a child is one year from now, which in practice means a conditional prison sentence. If that limit were raised for two years, which we in the Committee on Legal Affairs had agreed on, then there would be virtually prison sentences in this regard. The government had three and a half years to prepare this bill, and it was very sad that we had to ask the Constitutional Committee about it. Here's all the parties. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u117	Madam President! First of all, it is important that the proposal has been brought here and, however, this clearly tightens penalties for the sexual exploitation of children. On the other hand, we need to think about this process. As Mr Kymäläinen pointed out, a citizens' initiative has already been brought to Parliament in 2015, and this has been expected, we have been waiting for a government proposal on this issue for several years. Well, now that I myself am a rather recent member of the Legal Committee — I have been half of this parliamentary term — I expected this government proposal, however, to intervene extensively in these outrageous, public debates. Among other things, representative Kymäläinen referred to this case, where a ten - year - old has been subjected to terrible acts and those penalties do not in any way satisfy the general sense of justice. It surprises me, at least, that this government proposal does not interfere in any way with these very young, ten-year-old, sexual crimes against children, for example, which is not the subject of this proposal, and that is a great shortcoming. This will tighten the penalties for young people who have grown up, but it will not interfere with those who have been targeted at them, and that is an infinitely large deficiency in this proposal. That is why, as a whole in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, we in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, particularly in the opposition, were calling for an opinion from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in relation to this citizens' initiative, because we would have liked it here in the Chamber, we would have liked it to be dealt with here. But the day before, we had to withdraw the motion that we brought this proposal here to the Chamber, because this is better than nothing. But there were very many shortcomings here, and in that sense I personally am disappointed by the fact that there were no blackmails, particularly with regard to these crimes against very young children, even though full political and common sense says that they had to be done. So I was puzzled, which is why the government refused to bring that motion, even though I did so many times myself. However, it is now satisfactory that we have a strong stance on the follow-up to the debate and that is not the end of the matter, and there is certainly a common sense of will to remedy this. And, as I said, there is a clear need for stronger penalties, but also for other measures, for these preventive measures, which should be put forward in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u118	Mr President! It is good that we have brought this government proposal to the table and now to the decision-making stage here in Parliament's Chamber. This proposal increases the upper limits for the punishment of serious sexual offences against children. It is a strong signal that harsher sentences must be condemned for these disgusting acts. A single act can wound a child for the rest of his life. A citizens' initiative on the tightening of the penalties for sexual offences against children was adopted in the Parliament as early as 2015. At that time, the government took a number of studies and we waited for a government proposal that would have been the answer to the expectations and the sense of justice of the citizens. When eventually the Minister Mr Häkkänen presented his proposal in October and the Committee on Legal Affairs began to deal with it, so I must say that I was also disappointed that the proposal was not sufficiently involved in the penalties to be imposed. The increase in the upper limit will, of course, have some impact, but not enough. It would also be essential to raise the thresholds for penalties, because there are now too many conditional sentences for serious sexual offences against children. If anything goes against the sense of justice. In any event, this government proposal was unanimously adopted because it is a step in the right direction, and it is important that the forthcoming Parliament, first of all, and the forthcoming government, first of all, implement the overall reform of Chapter 20 of the Penal Code. The whole of criminal law affecting rape and sexual offences must be looked at in a comprehensive manner, extorting convictions, both minimum sentences and upper sentences. The importance of a child’s age is particularly important when it comes to protecting young children. The lack of consent to the criterion of the rape mark must also be clarified, as at present acts are being examined from the point of view of whether violence has been used or is a threat to it. Many victims may be very paralyzed, or if they are young children, they do not even understand what is happening. He cannot have the idea of what will happen and what kind of work is involved. Yet, these acts, which touch a person in the most serious, brutal way possible, wound a person for the rest of his life.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u119	Madam President! This motion was a real hard effort in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and this was not an easy thing to judge and see as a whole, even though the aim was very clear. There were citizens' initiatives on the table, there were legislative initiatives by individual representatives and then there was a government proposal which immediately showed that it was not enough. It has already signalled that this issue is now unfinished, and it is also incomplete. Fortunately, the committee worked hard and wrote so hard on this, it will come from the next Parliament to demand this, and in such a way as to stress its urgency. Mr Zyskowicz has rightly asked the question, which is the right punishment for sexual abuse of a child, which is the state between rape and consent, which is the difference between these divisions. Then there is this sense of law and the way in which the law is applied in court judgments. They're very distant from each other. The public's sense of justice is clearly more severe than the convictions for these crimes. We are in a state where the majority of Parliament also believes that these penalties are too low. There are too many of these conditional sentences. This committee's report is quite good text, good reading. It goes through this whole whole thing carefully. It also draws attention to the need for a comprehensive reform of Chapter 20 of the Criminal Code, which could take account of all these aspects. What is certain is that a child who is targeted is a unique and life-threatening event, even for the rest of his life. And this should not be forgotten by the legislator that it is not a single act of evil but an act that affects the rest of the life. It is also the right of the preservation of one of the most important matters of human privacy — sexual integrity, cleanliness and the uniqueness of one’s own body — and, in a way, of the voluntary nature of it, that I can decide for myself when I want to give these things to another person. It has a profound meaning. This message is also of social importance. Although we legislators understand that stronger judgments
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u120	Madam President! Good speeches have been made here. I myself would like to try to clarify to this audience how the interpretation of the Constitution is always an interpretation. I wonder what is the provision in the Constitution that says that the Constitutional Committee must consider whether the punishment is proportionate and fair, and that the Constitutional Committee will then, if it considers it to be so, prevent the imposition of inappropriate penalties? Well, that is Article 8, which states the general principle of legality, and Article 8 as follows: ‘Anyone shall be held guilty of a criminal offence and shall not be convicted on the grounds of A criminal offence shall not be subject to more severe punishment than is prescribed by law at the time of the offence.” There it is, the principle of legality in our legal system. This section — did you listen carefully? — in legal practice, part of the legal profession has been developing a doctrine that the tightening of penalties and the more severe conviction of a custodial sentence or fine are somehow a constitutional issue. It is as if these rapists and other villains had a fundamental right not to be convicted, for example, of aggravated rape, but at most of a certain punishment. Well, this is ridiculous. And this doctrine is quite new, it has been developed over the last few years, and I hope that next parliamentary term the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will indeed reject this useless doctrine. That is quite different from such an extreme example that someone would be suggested for shoplifting even for life, and then certainly such questions can come up for consideration. But what makes the constitutional question in such normal circumstances of blackmail, which everyone here seems to be in favour of? Nothing, but these experts have now developed this kind of doctrine that it is a matter for the Constitutional Committee to judge whether the punishment is proportionate and fair in relation to the act and other penalties. But this is exactly what the Committee on Legal Affairs needs to think about and what Parliament should decide, not that two or three experts in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decide on behalf of Parliament. As far as Mr Nurminen’s speech is concerned, there will certainly be a lot of inadequate legislation in which such a political “lack ” is as I understood that there are no sub-border barriers. But it is quite different than the general misunderstanding that all these clashes with the Constitution are due to the fact that our services are so unworthy that they continue to pass anti-constitutional laws here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u121	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to amend the chapter on sexual offences in criminal law. The maximum penalty for sexual abuse of a child would be increased from four to six years in prison, and a new provision on aggravated child rape would be added to the penal code. In other words, there are also significant improvements in this proposal and this gross child rape is a new one. But the problem with this proposal is that, since this is such a small partial reform, which is partly poorly prepared, experts say that this is not a significant improvement in the current situation either. And I must say that the Committee on Legal Affairs has done a careful, good job here. This report sets out all the main and most important needs for correction. Now, on Wednesday, Amnesty also published an important report on the rights lottery, which highlights in particular the victim’s weak position, the situation of the raped victim. And I would also like to stress the need to increase and strengthen the assistance and understanding offered to the victim and to speed up these criminal proceedings so that the victim does not have to live the same terrible situations over and over again. I personally believe that if this proposal had not been dealt with at the last minute, and if Mr Häkkänen had been able to bring his proposal to Parliament earlier and had the Constitutional Committee had had time to deal with that citizens' initiative, as the Committee on Legal Affairs had to do, these thresholds for criminal penalties could have been raised. My sense of justice says that these penalties must and may still be tightened up again, and I believe that the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs would therefore have been very quick and clear on this issue. However, further work, further improvements — assessment of lack of consent, reform of the entire legislation on rape, reform of the criteria for the identification of rape and further tightening of sentences — will remain with the new Parliament, and that work will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u122	Madam President! The committee considered that the provisions of Chapter 20 of the Criminal Code on child abuse and rape offences should be reformed in such a way as to tighten penalties, in particular minimum penalties, as well as to assess the regulatory technique and criminal codes. This is an important message and a very determined one. This is not ‘if’ or ‘maybe’ or ‘or’ when ‘or’apparently’, but isrequired that thisis all addressed. In the committee, we had a wide debate on what is meant by the age limits of ‘10 years old’ or ‘under 13 years old’ or ‘15 years old’, how such sexual good use contributes to the development of a child at different ages, to the security normally experienced in the presence of a parent,and to the extent that this security is felt in this situation. As a result of this debate, it was also stated in this report that there should be more education in schools and in early childhood education about what is the child's autonomy, which is the ability to feel, live and express, to pay attention to what it means when an adult comes and goes in the child's body to areas that are not to be visited. There was a wide-ranging debate on this. It was wanted to be clearly recorded. It is precisely because when a child is treated like this that he usually does not understand what is happening, but if he were told at a very early stage what is appropriate and what is not, he would be more courageous to tell that something has now been done to him that is not appropriate. As a child, it is not easy for close friends, close relatives, parents, brothers, sisters to approach an official person or an outside person and to reveal that I have had what has happened to me. I think it was wonderful that the committee had such a good debate on this and that a clear record was made of education, education and also the training of the faculty in this area to identify when the child had difficulties.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-03-08-ps-173.u123	The 11th item of the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 12 March 2019. The representative who intends to propose amendments to the report of the Committee on Finance must submit his amendment to the central office. Amendments must be submitted to the central office by 12 noon on Monday 11 March 2019 at the latest. The debate will begin at the plenary session on Tuesday 12 March 2019 at 10 a.m. with a rapid part-session, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. In addition, the President may, in the order in which he is considering, give an answer of 1 or 2 minutes. The detailed discussion will take place at the plenary session on Wednesday 13 March 2019 at 10 a.m. All amendments will be tabled in detail and then put to the vote. To the extent that no amendments to the draft amending budget have been proposed, it shall be deemed to have been adopted in accordance with the report of the Committee on Finance.
