ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-19-ps-20.u1	On 18 and 19 June 2019 the committees have elected their chairman and vice-chairman.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-19-ps-20.u2	The third item in the order of business is the election of the Office Commission. I note that the election is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-19-ps-20.u3	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 1 hour is reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-19-ps-20.u4	Madam President! I present the activity report of Kela’s delegates for 2018. Kela is a self-employed social security institution under the authority and supervision of the Parliament, and the supervision of Kela is carried out by the auditors appointed by the Parliament and appointed by the delegates. Kela’s benefits are paid from Kela’s defined benefit funds, the costs of which today are 80% borne by the State and 16% by employers and insured persons and municipalities for a small part. Kela's defined benefit expenditure amounted to nearly EUR 15 billion in the reporting year, i.e. last year. The goal of Kela's delegates has been to keep operational expenditure below 3% of total expenditure, and so far this has been successful, but in the previous period operating expenditure has already risen to 3.4% and is already above 500 million. Tomorrow we will receive an amending budget that will provide additional resources for Kela's operating expenses, and in this regard, as Chairman of Kela's delegates, I say that it is necessary to ensure that Kela's operational capacity and liquidity are maintained, but also to ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of Kela's operations. The delegates have met at ten general meetings in the year of the report, and I would like to raise a few points in my presentation of the year. There are many new MPs here, and I note that this report concerns the activities of Kela's delegates and the annexes to this report include the entire Kela activity report and the key research results. Kela Research Institute. Let's go to the key things. Regarding Kela's procurements, Kela is a public purchaser and must comply with procurement law in its procurements, and In fact, Kela made a couple of hundred procurement decisions during the reporting year, but the delegates for these procurements dealt in particular with interpretation services for disabled persons, taxi trips replaced by Kela and then rehabilitation therapy contracts. Interpreting services were already launched in 2017, but since this acquisition was subject to so much criticism from both the users of the service and also from the level and various levels of MPs, the delegates and the internal audit of Kela went through the tendering process. No legal comment was found, but what became clear is that tendering may not be the best way to organise this type of service in Kela, and therefore the CEO of Kela suggested that the legislation should be amended in such a way that some services provided by Kela, such as interpretation services, would be transferred to the registration procedure, and in practice this would mean that Kela would determine the price and quality and service providers would be able to register as Kela's service providers and then the persons entitled to the service would be able to choose the service provider themselves. In other words, in Kela we would move on to the freedom of choice model. During the operating year, Kela also launched several rehabilitation services, and during this mandated period we have strengthened the role of Kela's authorised supervisor by conducting external studies, and during the reporting year we conducted a survey of Kela's therapy service procurements, and I say that we have made that report. That report contained 14 recommendations for developing the competition made by Kela. It recommends the renewal of Kela's procurement strategy, procurement instructions and procurement operations. In addition, the report calls for a stronger understanding of the customer perspective and customer needs, good procurement and tendering practices, adequate consideration of market effects and accountability, and Kela's risk management was also recommended for renewal. So there were some significant comments. Kela's delegates received this external evaluation report and we asked the Kela Board of Directors to discuss this and also make proposals for measures on how to improve Kela's operations. Kela's Board of Directors has not yet made these recommendations, but the next Kela General Assembly will receive these suggestions for improvement from the Government. Well, the delegates have dealt with taxi trips and related purchases that Kela has replaced. We have closely monitored the implementation and quality of the services and have required Kela to intervene without delay in the identified service deviations, such as the long waiting times for telephone services and the lack of security of transport. From time to time, we monitored the development of that service every week, and I can say here that during the autumn 2018, the service level improved in all regions of the provinces to the full or almost the agreement, except for the province of Uusimaa, where the services were not able to function. This is why Kela and the service providers agreed that the contract would be terminated, and the tendering procedure was then re-opened, but it will then go into the next annual report period. The goal of Kela's delegates has also been to increase the transparency of Kela's operations, and we have been involved in this. For example, we have put the agenda and minutes of Kela's delegates' meeting on the Internet and required this also from the Government of Kela, because the transparency of Kela's operations has been strongly called for, and the Kela Government has now followed our recommendation. Mr President! Kela's employees have grown especially with the transfer of basic income support. During the year of the activity report, Kela had 7700 employees, which is already 460 person-years more than in the previous year. We delegates have considered it important that Kela is an exemplary employer, and I welcome the fact that the indicators of well-being at work have turned to growth since the fall of the organisational reform and Kela staff generally consider Kela to be a good job. The weakest grade is renewal. A significant part of the staff does not consider Kela to be a very modern organisation that is economically efficient or ecologically responsible, and this is an important observation that the Kela administration should take into account. Then, from customer service and the service network that the delegates are following — MPs often ask about this: We have considered it important to have good access to Kela's services. At the end of the reporting year there were 161 service points and then 138 smaller service points, and 2.6 million service points were served. We have considered it particularly important that you can do things other than online. Kela’s online services have grown: already 70 per cent of applications have been made online and only 30 per cent on paper and about 1 per cent orally. The delegates have strongly taken the message that there must be alternatives — to go to the office, to make an appointment, or to get advice by telephone — so that everyone can use the services and get the benefits they need. Well, what was the significance of the reporting year? Kela strengthened its IT expertise and IT services, and the IT centre was also established in Kela. Nina Nissilä, the Digital Director of the State Treasury, was elected as Director of the IT Centre, and she was later presented by Kela’s delegates as the third leader when Mikael Forss retired. So the president appointed Nina Nissilä as the head of Kela during the reporting year. Customer satisfaction has remained at 7.5 on a scale of 0-10. It has remained at a slightly lower level, and this is something we have particularly wanted to draw attention to. Mr President! Kela’s risk management is something we have been particularly concerned about. When we set up an external evaluation team to assess the transfer of basic income support and its implementation, it was strongly highlighted that there are serious deficiencies in Kela's risk management, and on the basis of this, a risk management network has been set up in Kela at the level of the entire organisation to support risk management. In addition to this, Kela’s Supervisory Audit Body carried out an audit of Kela’s risk management and also found improvements and recommendations in it, and now the delegates require the Executive Director to present the recommendations to the new delegates. But at the very last, even though time is running out, I hope I can say that the role of the Social Insurance Institution has changed a great deal from what it was when it was set up to pay the national pension. At present, Kela pays EUR 15 billion in benefits, and the government pays 80 per cent of the benefits paid by Kela. The role has changed a lot, but Kela's legislation has not changed with it, and that is why Kela's delegates set up an external expert working group to find out whether Kela's supervision and supervision, status and administration are in line with today's needs. We have received the presentation of that task force. It was largely unanimous, and the working group suggests that in future Kela's Director-General and Directors would appoint the Government of Kela instead of the President of the Republic. That change would implement the core principles of good governance and would clarify the relationship between the Board of Directors and the CEO in addition to Kela's management system. The study group also suggested that the managers' posts should be changed to temporary posts, i.e. there is no reason why the head of Kela should be appointed today. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-19-ps-20.u5	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Sarkomaa for an interesting and good, comprehensive presentation. The Central Party is a party that wants to take care of the sick, the disabled and the elderly. After two months in this Parliament, I have noticed that we all want to take care of the weakest. They have not only been electoral speeches; it is a matter of heart to all of us. We have a common goal: to create a society in which everyone is cared for. However, the means vary, and it is precisely the debate that we can now have and the cooperation that is needed to coordinate them. Kela’s report is an important document because it provides guidelines for care. For example, the availability of rehabilitation and taxi services in Kela needs to be improved. It would be hoped that we could receive better rehabilitation for over 65-year-olds as well. Many people who have exceeded their working age would benefit from rehabilitation and miss it. I would also like to point out that I appreciate the fact that, according to the report, Kela's delegates and Kela have listened to and discussed citizens' feedback throughout the year. Kela's services are used especially by the poorest and most painful ones. We in the centre have a clear view that we need to strengthen care for the most vulnerable and that this can only be done if our public finances are in order. Without work and tax revenues from work, we cannot take care of the weakest. The Kela Activity Report, annexed to the authorised reports, notes that the main challenges of social security relate to economic and employment developments and the resulting pressure to reduce public expenditure. The active model for the unemployed mentioned in the report has been flawed, but it has been a good objective and has also contributed to improving employment in our country. This employment effect is also recognised in the new Government Programme, which agrees that the cuttings and obligations of the active model will be lifted once measures with equivalent employment effects have been decided. Activation is important and worthwhile, but squatting is not, and it is therefore good that the active model has already been corrected when deficiencies have been identified. Now that we have received many entries on Kela in the Government Programme, I think it is important that we take into account the wishes of the delegates mentioned in this activity report that it is important to obtain as precise an assessment as possible of the impact of the changes in the law on Kela's resources. In addition, delegates stress that when laws are amended, sufficient time should be reserved for the enforcer to prepare for change. A sufficient number of employees in Kela are in the interests of both Kela staff and the customer and society as a whole. Kela's social security services include, for example, benefits for families with children, health insurance, rehabilitation, basic security for the unemployed, housing allowance, basic income support, student allowance, disability benefits and minimum pensions. There are a lot of improvements in this area in the Government Programme and it was also decided to launch a major social security reform and implement a social welfare reform. Of course, there will be major changes in Kela's role and Kela will be significantly involved in them. I also very much welcome the comments made by Mr Sarkomaa that the Government has already taken into account the impact of its programme on Kela by allocating EUR 5.5 million in Kela's operating expenditure in the draft amending budget published yesterday. For my part, I would like to thank Kela's delegates for the work you have done and for this report. I hope you will also convey thanks to Kela's staff. Kela’s staff, as shown in this report, have had to adapt and have been able to adapt to many changes and have stretched out for the benefit of the most vulnerable Finns. Yesterday we elected new Kela delegates from among us in the plenary session for the coming period. I wish you good luck and a blessing on that mission. I read the report with great interest, and I think that, for example, this is good reading for all of us as a Midsummer.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-19-ps-20.u6	Madam President! I would also like to thank Mr Sarkomaa for presenting this report to the delegates of Kela well, and thank you also to the representative. To the motherfuckin' hill for a good speech. Representative Aittakumpu here presented these Kela beneficiary groups extensively, and it is true that Kela touches the life of everyone in Finland extensively, at its various stages. One particularly important stage, however, is the period of study when young people build up their capacities and, on the other hand, they also have an image of the society that they then contribute to: will they encourage: Finland will do its best to encourage: Finland to work and try. As can be read from that Kela data, even this spring Kela has had to send a letter to 40,000 young Finns to recover the student aid they have received, and the reason for the recovery is that they have worked too hard in addition to their studies. Of course, it is not Kela's fault that Kela has to recover these – Kela only enforces the laws that the Parliament has passed. But we have gathered here to legislate for these Parliaments, and that is why I would like to raise the debate that the income limits for student aid have not been revised for 12 years. Last winter, the Finnish Institute for Research and Research carried out a study which indeed concluded that this low income ceiling for study aid, which is currently EUR 12,195 per year, is causing significant welfare losses. From these 40,000 students Kela wishes to recover EUR 43.3 million of student grants. Well, of course, this may sound like the state is doing well, but this is not the case, but this study clearly shows that if the limit on the free income of students were to be increased by 50%, i.e. by an increase of around EUR 18000 per year, the workload of students would increase, on average, by around EUR 600 per year, and, at the end of this period, the net income of the state would increase by EUR 5.9 million per year. This part-session will deal with a smaller technical amendment to the Student Aid Act, but I would like to see this debate now being raised and last week being raised.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-19-ps-20.u7	Madam President! I would like to thank Mrs Sarkomaa, the Chairman of the Social Insurance Institution, for a good presentation and also for this report, which I believe is very informative and clear. It is easy to get a picture of the state of the Social Insurance Institution and also of the current challenges Kela faces. Representative Sarkomaa stated that during this period the delegates set up an external expert working group to examine the future of Kela, to determine whether the laws governing Kela's guidance, supervision, status and administration were in line with today's needs. The Social Insurance Institution is an historical organisation which has been established in a very different social situation in the past, and the social security system, which Kela manages, has changed considerably during this period. The study group, which submitted its report, considered it important that the guidance of the ministries operating in the Kela industry be strengthened. We have had experience of situations where the activities of the Social Insurance Institution have become quite significant challenges due to the changed legislation. One of these was the granting of basic income support, which was transferred to Kela at the beginning of 2017. Quite soon, with the change that took place at the beginning of the year, the treatment was congested and the processing times were delayed, and this caused considerable difficulties for many citizens. In this context, it became clear that the influence of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health on Kela's activities was rather weak, as there is no direct steering possibility. At the same time, it must be borne in mind that the Social Insurance Institution operates under the supervision of the Parliament, i.e. it is an institution under our control — an independent social security institution with its own administration and finances — and is supervised by the 12 delegates designated by the Parliament. Kela’s activities really play a major role in society. Many people’s livelihood depends on Kela’s activities — whether those decisions are obtained without delay and within the agreed time frame. Due to the great importance of society, it would be justified that the composition of Kela's delegates should also be parliamentaryly comprehensive. After all, this was the subject of a debate last season, and I understand that the President has also taken the view that all parliamentary groups should have some representation among those delegates. During the last period — and this is the case now, according to this new decision — the Christian Democrats, for example, did not have their own delegate among these delegates. In practice, it leads to the difficult situation that, for example, when citizens contact our representatives, we do not really have any instruments to deal with them, even if we are directly responsible for Kela's activities. We cannot ask written questions to the government because the government is not responsible for it, the Minister of Social Affairs and Health is not directly responsible for Kela. And there is no formal instrument by which we Members of Parliament, on the other hand, can contact and demand the responsibility of Kela's delegates, there is nothing other than, of course, the usual corridor debate, which everyone will naturally have the opportunity to do. And when Mr Sarkomaa also raised the point here that the delegates decided to present to the parliamentary groups that a parliamentary working party should be set up to further work on this matter, I think this is an urgent project and I hope that this parliamentary coverage would be one of the key issues that would be considered in that working group. In view of the future challenges facing the Social Insurance Institution, they do relate to these major legislative reforms. We hope that we will have a reform of social security as a whole as soon as possible. In this context, I hope that the Social Insurance Institution will be more prepared than when basic income support was transferred to Kela in 2017, so that there will be no delays in benefits that are important for citizens, which will make it difficult for citizens to have their daily lives. And in this context, I think it is important that all the parliamentary groups should be represented there.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-19-ps-20.u8	Madam President! Last year, Kela paid basic income support of EUR 716 million, a significant part of which went to young people under 25 years of age. After all, income support is intended as a last-minute form of short-term support to help overcome a temporary difficult situation. However, according to Kela's data, income support customers, especially for young people, have in part become long-term, which is not the original purpose of this support. Efforts must be made to prevent dependency on income support and to help young people as early as possible. Kela must inform the applicant’s municipality of residence in accordance with its own instructions if the main income of a person under the age of 25 has been only income support during the last four months. This is definitely a necessary measure, but it is not enough to help young people on its own. Participation in Kela’s Ohjaamo activities has also been important for young people. It is very problematic for young people at risk of exclusion that they can apply for income support for long periods of time in writing without ever meeting anyone face to face. Understandably, such a practice can only pass and strengthen the spiral of exclusion. Every young person receiving income support should, at least in my opinion, meet personally and help the young person with the assistance and support he needs. Especially now that basic income support has been paid and calculated, Kela must be ensured that seamless cooperation between Kela and social work is successful. I would like to ask the Kela delegates who are present: are there any new measures to support and help young people in the direction of Kela?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-19-ps-20.u9	Madam President! Thank you for the Annual Activity Report 2018 of the Social Insurance Institution and in particular for the clear presentation of the matter by the representative of Sarkomaa. One of the most significant benefit projects in 2018 was the preparation of the introduction of the National Incomes Register. Kela has been involved in the production of the Incomes Register from the beginning. The purpose of the introduction of the Incomes Register is to promote the automation of services and significantly facilitate the application of benefits. Thanks to the Incomes Register, many benefits can be granted from the beginning of 2019 on the basis of up-to-date data and faster than before, good. However, the Act on the Incomes Register, which entered into force at the end of the year, has created some challenges, particularly in sports clubs. I'll open it up a little bit more. The challenge is, in particular, to pay fees to junior judges, which, regardless of the amount and age of the recipient, must be reported to the Incomes Register within five days of payment. Here is a real - life example of the activities of the Sports Society: During the season there were 80 junior judges in the Society’s operations, an age fork up from 8 years. The judge's fee was between 5 and 20 euros per game. The game season was May-September, i.e. five months. Each judge sentenced each month, the number of wage transactions is therefore 5 times 80, or 400. In the current accounting and pay scheme, the price of the wage transaction is EUR 7 per wage and that is the work of the accounting office, i.e. EUR 10 per wage. In this case, the costs of this activity for the sports club amounted to EUR 4000. Many teams have previously paid the judges’ fees for their own cash bags. In this case, the team backers should handle the announcements themselves, e.g. Suomi.fi. For voluntary social workers, this is quite a load. The second option is to send payment slips to an accounting office that handles income register declarations. This means that the costs will be even higher. With games almost every day and more games in the same night, there will be a huge number of notifications. If it is done in such a way that all fees are paid to the bank accounts of the judges through the accounting office, then the cost estimate is the EUR 4000 that I have mentioned. However, the practice usually goes so that the judge takes the receipts from the games he judges from the team and sends a notification to the accounting office at the end of the month. Judge fees should be paid by the Society’s overhead account, and then invoiced to the team. So there's gonna be a lot more work than before. If the accounting office makes a breakdown of the fees per team, the additional costs will be even higher. Thus, the judge’s fees are a work allowance without any additional costs and most of them are not subject to taxes. There are no winners in this. It is not so much a problem that coaches' kilometer fees, player fees and so on, but precisely these junior judges' fees and their connection to the Incomes Register. Mr President! Even without junior judges, things can't be handled, we all know for sure. Being a junior judge is at least as educational as playing. It takes courage to be alone or alone in front of adult coaches. This same problem is repeated in many different species. Mr President! On page 79 of the Government Programme, it says: ‘The administrative burden that disrupts civil activity is being dismantled and licensing practices are being opened up. The administrative burden on small associations of unnecessary civic activities caused by the Incomes Register will be promptly investigated and removed.’ This is a good entry, which means the government program is catching up. It is hoped that this will lead to rationalisation. The administrative burden of follow-up activities must be reduced and the agility of the activities increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-19-ps-20.u10	Madam President! First of all, thank you for the introduction. In its written form, the report of the delegates is also easy to read and approach, and in that sense also thanks to those who have produced the report as a whole. Kela’s operations are important for Finnish low-income people and support society as a whole, but I am now perhaps focusing more on taxi trips that Kela has replaced. Now this report perhaps describes more clearly why this happened, why the reform of taxi services in Kela caused confusion and shortcomings in the services. Earlier, when we were discussing the report of the delegates, the previous Minister for Transport denied the connection that the taxi law itself had caused it, but now this report describes the fact that it would have called for a bill and that it could not have been done by a simple regulation. Now this opens up what happened and how it happened, and it is good to start developing operations. It has been well described how Kela has been aware of these problems that will arise in the taxi services to be replaced. It describes well what has been done, how much has been fined and how much competition has been sought, and there has been a clear improvement in the provision of services. However, I myself wonder that if, for example, the municipality is bidding for companies with land transport, then the requirement for a tendering procedure generally requires that a participant in a competition then has the equipment to carry out this measure. In other words, when you look at this in relation to telephone services, this is still incomplete, and now I would like the delegates to take the request and demand that, in the event of competition, the supplier who wishes to participate in the competition should have sufficient resources to secure it, because if you get a foot between the door and the door, the fine may not necessarily be fined.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-19-ps-20.u11	Mr President! I would also like to thank Mrs Sarkomaa, President of Kela's delegation, for her very good presentation of the activity report. The Social Insurance Institution is a lot of security in Finland. It is almost impossible to dodge contact with Kela all the time, so its ability to function is reflected in the everyday lives of a large number of people. As Kela’s delegate, I have been following the activities closely for a long time, and I can sincerely say — and I believe that many delegates agree with this idea — that Kela is trying to stay on the edge of time and strives for as good customer satisfaction as possible in terms of resources. There is a great deal of public complaint about Kela’s activities, which is certainly partly due to the complexity of the cases under discussion and the lack of interpretation. Kela’s operations are also of great importance to Finland’s economy, and its social security expenses totalled EUR 14.87 billion in 2018. Compared with 2017, the growth was 0.2 per cent and the expenditure on benefits was good 6 per cent relative to GDP. Operating expenses amounted to over 0.5 billion, so it also really matters how Kela manages and manages its operations. Competition and rehabilitation services for people with disabilities are an equation that does not work properly. It causes great problems for many. Taxi reform is something that hasn't gone wrong. There are still problems with Kela rides. However, problems have been identified and, among other things, the Kela taxi system needs to be made more operational as soon as possible. We need to fix the problems when they're detected. The pressure exerted by politicians and the media is right, and I also look forward to the improvements that are visible at real life level in relation to the taxi issue itself. In 2018, the number of services in customer service decreased slightly, but demand for telephone services in particular continued to be strong. The report shows that, especially in the early part of the year, congestion in customer service was caught by surprise and waiting times were prolonged. As a result of the increased workload, more resources were allocated to customer service, and the situation also improved slightly. During 2018, as many as 20 service points were replaced by other services, based on the criteria defined by Kela's Board of Directors in 2017. Replacement services include, for example, municipal contact points and pop-up services operating in connection with social services. At the end of the year, there were 161 service points. The dismantling of the comprehensive service offices is not a problem-free process. I take particular care of the elderly and the disabled and otherwise disadvantaged Finns, who find it difficult to deal with things other than the traditional counter. The transition of Kela and other public services to the network will only accelerate further. As services change, care must be taken to ensure that adequate support and guidance is available to everyone throughout the country. Equality in access to public services must not depend on IT skills or excessively long distances. As a result, I believe that particular attention should be paid to the geographical coverage of the network of service points in the future. Mr President! The customer satisfaction index surveys carried out in March and September 2018 showed that overall satisfaction with Kela's services is, however, on a fairly good level with a score of 7.5 on a scale from 0 to 10. The results of the mobile survey were even better than that. Overall, the customers were quite satisfied with Kela's ability to meet their service needs and Kela's services in general. Weaknesses occurred in the ease and ease of business and in the adequacy and clarity of access to information in relation to benefits and services belonging to customers. It is good that Kela actively and regularly investigates customer satisfaction. Although the overall rating is good, I would highlight the development of the service process, especially in the most challenging cases and when there are disagreements with customers. However, all employees and customers who do their job are just people, so comms always happen, and this should continue to be the case. Therefore, I hope that solving such problematic cases in particular will gain even more weight in the development of Kela's operations in the future. Finally, Mr President, as representatives of the Finns of Peru, as delegates, I have also been represented by Leena Meri and — as an alternate — by Mika Niikko. And I would say that by far the most feedback as a Member of Parliament is received on matters relating to Kela, contacts and feedback, and measures are hoped for. All in all, however, thank you. As a delegate, it has been very interesting and very worthy to be, namely to know how the Finnish people are doing. Finally, I would like to say a very good word to everyone about Midsummer.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-19-ps-20.u12	Mr President! I would like to begin by thanking Mr Sarkomaa for his fine presentation of the Kela report. I would like to comment on the same taxi ride that was already touched on by representatives Myllykoski and Elomaa. I'm sure we've all received a lot of feedback from people about these Kela taxi availability problems. They've been late, and there's been some trouble ordering the rides. Orders have been waiting in line for a long time, and sometimes taxis have not arrived at all. Apparently, there have been problems especially here in the south, Helsinki and Uusimaa. It is understandable that the problems must have been caused by the fact that the competitions were carried out at the same time as the national taxi reform was carried out. Therefore, I am particularly pleased that it really seems that Kela’s delegates have been actively and very regularly monitoring the situation, receiving and requesting reports on this taxi competition and thereby constantly trying to monitor and improve the situation. I hope that in the future you will act with the same responsibility and that Kela's competitive skills will also be further developed. In the public sector, this has been a minor problem in many quarters and is a good development target in the coming years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-19-ps-20.u13	Mr President! We have a report on the activities of Kela’s delegates for 2018, and I would also like to thank the Chairman of Kela’s delegates, Sari Sarkomaa, for a good report. The availability of taxi services and the competitive tendering of demanding rehabilitation are issues that have become a lot of contacts and have concerned people. These must be taken seriously, and they have been taken up in Kela — thanks for that. Disabled children are a special group for which the question and question is whether they are the group whose rehabilitation is being exposed to competitive tendering. Their needs should be assessed individually and rehabilitation tailored to each of them. In the case of child rehabilitation, there is also a significant share of interaction with staff, and if it does not work, rehabilitation will not progress either. The second point that I would like to draw attention to here is the marginalisation of young people raised by Mrs Jaana Pelkonen. It is very gratifying that Kela's key project for 2018 has also been to improve the opportunities and life management of NEETs, as well as the measures taken to catch young people at risk of exclusion. It is necessary to continue this work and take an even more active approach to it, so that cooperation with municipalities is improved, and I personally would see that it would require some kind of binding legal amendment, so that when anxiety and such a announcement from Kela leaves the municipality, the municipal social services should be actively connected to the young person. Meeting a young person would be one of the most important things to be able to map out the whole situation in life. Parliament's representative Heikki Autto also raised the issue of student support, and I quite agree that a review of the income limits for student support should be carried out in the future. It is great — and it is a matter of this year already — that this educational material supplement, a good reform by the previous government, which is coming into use right from the beginning of the autumn season, has been made available smoothly through Kela in connection with applying for student financial aid.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-19-ps-20.u14	Mr President! Thank you to Kela and Kela's delegates for their work and for producing this report for us. Mr President! The most feedback from the citizens regarding Kela's activities may have come from these Kela taxis, which has already been referred to by previous speakers. Many problems have been encountered in their operation and, as we know, the problems got out of hand after the last call for competition and the amendment of the taxi law. There have been problems with the quality of the service, the transmission of rides, the waiting time and the ever-changing drivers. There have also been some criticisms from taxi companies, particularly in relation to the operation of brokerage services. Hopefully, this quality of service will continue to be monitored in Kela and the Board of Governors and, if necessary, the necessary measures will be taken. I am pleased that this issue has been addressed by the Council. Another issue that has come with a lot of feedback is these interpretation services, which have also experienced problems since the call for tenders. People have not always received the necessary quality interpretation, and many experienced interpreters, small entrepreneurs, have been driven out of service production. There have also been problems in terms of quality and individual service, as the previous speaker has pointed out, in competitions and subsequent activities relating to the rehabilitation of people with disabilities. This whole must indicate that it is very difficult to compete for people's services, especially when the needs are often very individual and varied. It does not always succeed in the desired way, so it is important to have such alternative forms of procurement, on the one hand, and to monitor and further develop the quality and implementation of competitive tendering on the other. I am pleased that the Council has drawn attention to this and I am sure that it will continue to pay attention in the event of problems and, in particular, in order to prevent them. Mr President! As far as basic income support is concerned, its transfer to Kela when it was decided and made was not in principle a saving measure. Unfortunately, however, for some people, for example, in reimbursement of medical expenses, the transfer has caused impairments and cuts and difficult situations for people's lives and livelihoods. It is good that attention has also been paid to this issue in the Kela Council. And I hope that when decisions are made in Kela, the individual situation of a person is genuinely taken into account, and that unreasonable situations are not created for persons with limited means.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-19-ps-20.u15	Madam President! I would like to join in thanking Mrs Sari Sarkomaa in particular for the presentation of the report on the activities of Kela’s delegates for the year 2018; she was very much a member of this report. And indeed, people contact us very much, because they know that Kela is an institution of society and, above all, of parliament. However, as Mrs Räsänen pointed out in her previous speech, the situation is that, at the moment, there will be no parliamentary representation among Kela's delegates, and in that sense, quite a few times, she has only had to give the names of colleagues and has hoped that people will then contact them if there are things of the kind that cannot be promoted as a representative. However, as has been pointed out in these speeches and also in this introduction to Sarkomaa, Kela does not have all these transfers — for example, transfer from municipalities to Kela for income support and taxi competition and competition for rehabilitation, transfer to the Incomes Register — always have gone just like in Strömsö, and it is good of course to bring these up. But sometimes one wonders that such major system reforms should be able to be prepared very carefully in advance, because these are the very things in which the so-called small citizen then feels that he is being kicked hard into the head when he wonders why, for example — as in this particular debate, a citizen posted a message — a guarantee pension and an invalidity pension have hit each other in the ears when a small fee has appeared in the income register and the person then leaves the next month completely guarantee pension on that basis. Well, it's really hard to explain to people in such situations that it's extraordinary that there's a problem like this right now, when a person feels like he's being kicked in the head of a society. But now that this government has this social reform on its list, which will be in its own way very massive, certainly this kind of system reform, but of course, above all the reform of the coordination of these various social security benefits, it would hope that they have been prepared in good time and then the necessary changes will be made and that there will then be wide-ranging working groups to consider all these coordination problems. There has been a special mention here last year of this competition for taxi taxis, and I must say that it is a good thing that we have now come in a slightly clearer direction, but it is particularly good that it can be concluded from the record of the Government Programme that this reform of the taxi laws, which has been in the background of this confusion, is now being applied for repairs, and it is good that we in the countryside do not have a taxi at all and that taxis in the growth centres in the Helsinki region do not really know where they are going.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-19-ps-20.u16	Apparently, there's a need for a debut. Mr Kurvinen, I give you a 1-minute reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-19-ps-20.u17	Madam President, thank you! There has been a very high-quality discussion here about this report on the activities of the Kela delegates last year. In my opinion, the clear thing that has really come up here in almost every speech is these different forms of Kela procurement — whether it is a question of taxi rides when you have to go to a central hospital, for example, or it is an issue of interpreter services, it is a question of demanding rehabilitation. I think it is very positive that the new Red Mul Government programme has stated that there is a willingness to assess the way in which the procurement law is suited to these various social and health care competitions, because they are such services that if you go just ahead of the euro, then there are usually the problems described in this debate. I personally hope that we will actually look at the procurement law as to whether legislative changes can be made. I'm sure Kela needs to think more about how to use direct acquisitions and how to use them, but we also need to look at changes in the law so that, above all, human care and support are realized, and then not just that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-19-ps-20.u18	And then on the list of speakers, apparently.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-19-ps-20.u19	Madam President! There are a few questions here. With regard to these taxis — the honourable Member who asked about them — it is good to say that, as I am sure the representatives know, Kela must operate within the framework of the legislation and, when contracts are made, market law is lacking if certain equipment is required to be in use at the time of the offer. So we've been through these things, but I do feel this pain and myself sometimes wondering if I have to drive a taxi when all I had time to do was answer the concerns that came when the taxi didn't come. As far as Uusimaa is concerned, the tendering procedure has now been reopened, but I think that it is quite justified — and this is not, of course, a statement in accordance with that report, but the delegates have gone through this issue — that the legislation also needs to be assessed so that Kela can reasonably then compete for taxi rides in the future and people can get access to health care and elsewhere. It is often the most difficult diseases when these taxis are used. Mr Räsänen pointed out that small groups do not own a seat in Kela's delegates, and this underscores the fact that this is a matter of the Social Insurance Institution, which is 15 billion, it is a question of benefits that every Finn can obtain at least at some point in his life, and I do not think that the legislation is up-to-date, nor does the delegates think. That is why it is absolutely necessary for the parliamentary groups' bureaux to now set up its parliamentary working party and see how we can bring about rapid reform of the Kela legislation. You don't have to leave an empty table, we have a team of experts who have made their presentations. It is not entirely unanimous, but there is a basic consensus so that Kela's administration is brought to the level that general principles of state administration are implemented there, for example. What I found to be a little thin in this group of experts, which they were afraid to touch, is the supervision of Kela at all. In view of the fact that the Social Insurance Institution was once supervised by MPs, consideration must be given to what is a reasonable way of controlling such a large independent social security institution. For example, the State Audit Office is not involved in controlling spending, even though 80% of the state budget comes from the state budget. I think it is absolutely necessary to set up a parliamentary working party, and I think it is excellent that the government has promised to clarify the reform of the legislation, but that is not enough, but that the law should be reformed. I would also like to say to the MPs, when we all together ultimately monitor the activities of the Social Insurance Institution, that we have already submitted draft laws to the Ministry in 2017. They were prepared at the request of the delegates at the head of Kela. There's a lot of things that Kela has made, for example, a reform of its organisation, but the law has not been reformed. That is, if in two sections, bill proposals would be brought to Parliament. The most important thing is to bring the law into line with today's activities and, above all, to bring legislation in such a way that the Social Insurance Institution can act in accordance with its current responsibilities. Mr President! I note that this report is a key element of the supervision of the Social Insurance Institution, but it is important that those annexes are also carefully reviewed. There is a reporting procedure in Parliament whereby this report would then go to the substance committee, the Social Affairs and Health Committee. I myself have considered it important and I would like to say here that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health should also be asked for opinions from the Committee on Audit, perhaps from the Committee on Finance. I would also like to say that, as President-in-Office of the Kela Council, I have been somewhat concerned about the fact that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which has dealt with this report, has been the majority of Kela's delegates, which is why it is also good to assess in the future how this report will be dealt with and how it might be possible to reform the supervision of Kela in this Parliament, and that is why I repeat that it is necessary for that parliamentary working party to be set up. Here Mr Pelkonen asked about the situation of young people, about support for marginalised young people, and here Mr Laiho said that the NEET project will be consolidated, and much more needs to be done. I hope that Parliament and the delegates will be able to continue the work done during this mandate and during the last parliamentary term, that we have held joint seminars on the difficult issues for which there are no solutions. One of the key issues is how Kela cooperates with municipalities when the basic income support is managed by the Social Insurance Institution and the municipality has its own role to play. There is a huge risk that it will miss the fallers, and we need to work together to find a solution to this. As to why these joint seminars are important, it is good to say that: It is the responsibility of the Social Security Institution to make proposals for the development of social security and, in cooperation with the Committee on Social Affairs and Health in particular, it is an agile proposal and I hope that the government will also take them up quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-19-ps-20.u20	This matter is suspended. We had an hour left for this, and we've already passed it a little bit. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-19-ps-20.u21	We will now resume the debate on item 4 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. So the conversation continues.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-19-ps-20.u22	Madam President! Attention has been paid here to important issues in Kela's operations, but something that concerns me has so far not been dealt with. In this connection, I would like to say that this document, this report on the activities of Kela's delegates, is one of Kela's documents. The second, more important to me, is Kela's statistical yearbook. When Mr Aittakumpu here, I understand to be joking, threw out that it is good to read this as a Midsummer, in fact, the second statistical yearbook, which usually appears in June, has the entire Finnish social security system broken down into three and a half pages: health security, social security, pensions, everything else. And it is by studying it that I have some figures left in my mind that this report on the activities of the delegates does not quite open up in itself. I refer to page 55, where health insurance benefits are provided. You can read from there that last year Kela replaced the services of private doctors with EUR 56 million, private dental services with EUR 49 million, and private research and treatment — in practice X-ray, physiotherapy and laboratory services — with EUR 40 million. Few social security funds have suffered such a breakdown as these have occurred in the last four years. In Finland, compensation for dental care was equal to EUR 120 million, so now it is just over EUR 50 million. Two thirds of it was cut off. The compensation for private medical services amounted to EUR 75 million, now at that level of EUR 60 million. And the research and treatment allowance was halved from level 80 million to level 40 million euros. This has often been seen as a political right-wing issue, thought that since these are compensation for private doctors, private dentists and private health care companies, this would in some way be an unpleasant thing for the political left and then a very pleasant and important thing for the political right-wing. I see this exactly the opposite. During the previous government, as I told you, these were almost halved in certain respects, even more than halved in the case of dental care. And this is compensation, which is very important to people because we do not have the proper service system, which is not enough. People then rely on a private service system and Kela has replaced it. And the most drastic cuts in Finland's history were made during the last parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-19-ps-20.u23	Madam President! These rides and taxi rides by Kela have already been discussed in this Chamber several times, most recently in connection with the report by the Chancellor of Justice and now, of course, here. I myself tried to look here for the cost of this reform, and I did not actually get the figures out of it — I think the Kela delegates and the chairman were going away. All in all, the objectives of the reform have not been achieved here, particularly in the case of sick and disabled transport, so the problem has been running, and taxi services in those sparsely populated areas have also clearly deteriorated. This report does not contain an assessment of the impact of this competition on both costs and services for Kela's delegates, and I would, of course, have liked that. But fortunately, the government has already started a study on these taxi services, and I hope we will return to it very soon.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-19-ps-20.u24	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-19-ps-20.u25	Madam President! I myself, as Vice-President of Parliament, know that under the unwritten rules of the Vice-President, this toilet should not be taken too much of a position on day-to-day politics, but this is indeed the policy of the past, and I was indeed the chairman of the Finnish delegation to the Nordic Council last season – that is why here. Traditionally, a lot is happening in the Nordic Council. During 2018, a thematic session was held in Iceland in April on the subject of the marine environment and maritime safety, and during the plenary session in the Norwegian Parliament in October on the subject of hybrid influence. The Nordic Council Presidency was chaired last year by Norway, whose theme was “Sustainable and SafeNorth”. In particular, the strengthening of Nordic cooperation in the maritime and defence sectors was highlighted, and other key themes included overall security and mediation. In addition, the sea and climate change were present at September meetings in Greenland. In general and even now there are some new MPs in this Chamber, and yesterday a new Nordic Council delegation was elected to Finland. That is why I would like to highlight one key principle in Nordic cooperation, the Nordic interest. The starting point is that common solutions can do more in the Nordic countries, and together we are stronger than each other. Nordic cooperation is increasingly important and important, but we must work even more together to make it easier for citizens to move around the Nordic countries and between the different Nordic countries. A delegation from the Nordic Council of Finland has worked hard to remove the barriers to the borders between the Nordic countries, and a regular dialogue with ministers on Nordic issues and in particular on border barriers between the Nordic countries and their elimination. Removing the Nordic border barriers and increasing free movement between the Nordic countries remains the top priority of Nordic cooperation. At this point, this removal of barriers to borders means facilitating the movement of Nordic citizens, for example, in the pursuit of work or study, not of any other person. But how do we remove these barriers, how do we prevent the emergence of new border barriers, and how do we raise awareness of this both in national parliaments and in ministries? Here in Parliament, we should act in such a way that new border barriers would not arise when we were drafting laws or when we were implementing EU directives and regulations. As a good example, I would like to mention the Committee on Transport and Communications, which, in the early part of the year, last year, invited the Nordic Council to be heard by the Finnish delegation on the Council's recommendations. I was even an expert at the committee meeting. In recent years, Nordic parliamentary cooperation has increasingly focused on the themes of social security. Hybrid influence was discussed with the prime ministers of the Nordic countries. In addition, next week the Nordic Council Working Group's recommendations on Nordic social and global security cooperation and related Nordic cooperation will be finalised. The Nordic Council is increasingly addressing foreign, security and defence policy issues, and these issues were also strongly visible in the Council's activities and in the Council's recommendations — Arctic policy, security of the Baltic Sea, Nordic EU cooperation, mediation and so on. The Council also held discussions on Brexit with the then British Prime Minister, Theresa May, in plenary session. As chairman of the delegation during the previous parliamentary term, I would like to warmly thank the Finnish delegation for the four active and intensive years that have taken place. The new Nordic Council delegation in Finland started its work yesterday, and lycka till them only, good luck and success in this important work. Let us remember that the Nordic Region is in a way our family and our closest reference group. This will continue to be shown in concrete work, both in parliamentary committees and in the international parliamentary delegations. — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-19-ps-20.u26	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Eerola, for this review. I would like to ask Mr Eerola, when he, in particular, has quite a long experience with the Nordic Council, a few questions. The first question of interest is essentially this interaction between the Nordic Council of Ministers and then the Nordic Council of Ministers. This booklet describes how efforts have been made to develop this political interaction through, among other things, these written and oral questions and then through these various recommendations and how these processes have been intensified. How would you look at the state of this cooperation and interaction now, whether it is satisfactory or good in all respects and is there something to be developed in it? Then I would also like to ask about this Baltic Sea cooperation, in particular this Baltic Parliamentary Conference on the BSPC and cooperation with it: what does it actually contain, and can it be imagined that it will be even more active? It is of particular interest that this conference of Baltic parliamentarians includes, I believe, all the Nordic Council countries, but it also includes these other areas, such as the regions of Russia and the regions of Germany and Poland, so that it is quite interesting in that sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-06-19-ps-20.u27	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Park for these questions. Interaction with the Council of Ministers: Of course, there is always something to develop and improve on, but my experience was that it went on and on and on and on and on and on, a little, depending of course, on which ministers from which country they always were and how active they felt about this cooperation — but, as a rule, very good. And especially in the Finnish delegation, we used to have these co-operation ministers and then other ministers, depending on the subject, also attended the meetings of us, the Nordic Council delegation in Finland, and were very active there. This development is progressing all the time, it is constantly going towards the Council of Ministers, how to make this cooperation more flexible. Yes, my own experience is that it is frivolous. Then this Baltic Sea cooperation: Indeed, as you described, all the countries of the Baltic Sea are involved, the Nordic Council also has its own chair there, and last season the representative of Kulmala Blue's future was our representative there. Unfortunately, I cannot tell you more about this now, but I am sure that these reports from Kulmala and the secretariat can be read over there if you want to learn more about them — I can actually go to the Park and dig up them from that international unit. But it's also one of those active people. That activity in relation to PN and cooperation with the Baltic Sea people has increased and intensified just like this in recent years.
