ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, ärade ricksdagsledamoter! Man’s grief is at its greatest when the hand of a loved one can never be held again. Such grief is understood only by a person who has experienced it. For the third time in just over ten years, we are in a situation where this hall begins its sitting at a quiet moment to mourn not only the victims of school violence in Finland but also the people whose hands are no longer touched by the hands of a loved one. As with Kauhajoki and Jokela, another painful question arises: why? There are no answers to this question yet — there is only grief, which is the greatest in the loved ones and loved ones of the victim who has lost his life. Before answers are received, we must all focus on giving all the support we need to those in need. When answers are received, action must be taken in accordance with them. Än så länge vet vi inte vilket motiv gärningsmannen i Kuopio had för sitt dåd. Innan vi får svar på den frågan, gör vi alla bast i att Koncentrera oss på att ge all den hjälp de berörda behöver. När vi får svar på våra frågor, måste de åtgärder vidtas som visar sig nödvändiga. Med anledning av hedelserna i Kuopio håller riksdagen nu en täst me för att delta i de anhörigas och närståendes sorg. On behalf of Parliament, I offer my deep condolences to the family and loved ones who have lost their lives. I wish the injured victims and their families the strength of the event. As a result of the events in Kuopio, Parliament is now silent in order to take part in the grief of family and loved ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u3	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present! There are also many young people following the Parliamentary plenary session. I believe that many of these young people also looked forward to the first day of November. Many families looked forward to the first day of November — the day when it was decided that more safe light cars would be introduced in Finland. The government's proposal for light cars, prepared by the Ministry of Transport and Communications, was approved in Parliament with exceptionally large figures: 167 MPs voted in favour of light cars and only 12 against them. In fact, with the exception of one, all the Social Democrats voted in favour of this legislation on light cars during the last term when they were also in the opposition and also the current Minister of Transport, Sanna Marin. The President of the Republic adopted Parliament's laws on light-duty cars on 18 January 2019, and it was clear that the law will enter into force on 1 November 2019 at the latest, when the light-duty vehicle change surveys can be started. A lot of people have believed this, trusted the decisions taken in Parliament, confirmed by the President, and trusted that this will also be the case, and quite a few families — perhaps even some of these young people are already at home waiting for a light car for the first day of November — were waiting for the moment for them to get a safer ride for their youth. They also expected that travelling to, for example, less and less populated rural areas or from a rural city to a central city or from rural to a rural town would be easier for young people in the future, even with reduced public transport. This means that light cars are real small passenger cars for drivers aged 15 or over with a speed limit of 60 km/h. In fact, it could be said that the greatest advantage of light cars is precisely their safety for our young people, because they are modern passenger cars, which are defined as very fresh by law, which always have a comprehensive, modern, best safety equipment and a superstructure designed above. And the speed in the agglomerations is 30 km or 40 km when it is separately prescribed there by the speed limit. In fact, the superstructure is also much safer for pedestrians than for pedestrians, i.e. when they hit a cyclist or walker, such a light car is also much safer for pedestrians or cyclists than existing mopeds. Well, the EU Commission became a letter from one official, a comment, to the Finnish Ministry of Foreign Minister Haavisto on the regulation of light cars. The content of the Commission’s comments at the beginning of August was similar to those previously made, but the Ministry already stated that the Commission’s comments did not prevent the entry into force of the law but, if not, could lead to the initiation of infringement proceedings by the Commission. The concerns expressed in the Commission's comment are road safety — which is in fact very well justified in considering the other way around to be significantly better than mopeds — and possible environmental problems. I personally believe that light cars are also much more environmentally friendly than today's mopeds. And then the most important: the distortion of the market, which is what this is all about. Eventually, the big moped states Italy and France lobbied impossiblely in the EU to prevent the arrival of sensible light-duty vehicles, because they were not interested in what is happening in Finland — in Finland, mopeds are sold in a normal situation in about a hundred years — but they are interested in the fact that if these safer, safer, safer light-duty vehicles for young walkers come to France and Italy, then it will be of far greater importance for moped manufacturers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u6	Madam President! Mr Heinonen, I do not know which one you are more concerned about: that the matter will not be dealt with quickly or that it will be dealt with quickly. It was somewhat unclear, but I am sure that perhaps one day it will be decided whether it is a bad thing for the government to want to bring this to the table quickly, or whether it is taking an additional one year now. I don't care if it stays in our private coffee shop conversation. Mr Heinonen spoke with dignity and credit that we were very united that we wanted light cars for Finnish transport. For my part, I could say that at this point, if I had children of that age, I would be buying my son or daughter a moped earlier than a light car. I've always said that in a soapbox like that, I wouldn't put my kid in big trucks. We certainly had a quick will and a good condition for our children's safety and, in the name of road safety as a whole, for vehicles which, even in urban conditions, are safer for pedestrians and cyclists because of their superstructure, because they have tested impact studies, but there are no such vehicles. Perhaps if it were possible to open up this legislation, we could look at how much we want this light car to expand. When I was in favour of this light - car project, at some point I began to wonder that it might be that professional drivers would not be a nice thank - you to Mrs Myllykoski, when these 60 - km - an - hour light cars to summer festivals would fill the highways. So maybe we could, if that is possible, have a little discussion about whether there are regional or operational constraints. We got them off motorways and motorways, which was a good solution in committee. We may need a little more driving instruction on the right to drive light-duty vehicles, perhaps developing that we could also require more driving experience in the case of mopeds in difficult circumstances. And the criminal penalty should be more definable so that no fine can be imposed. It should be a road traffic violation, from which the light-duty driver will be subject to a substantial sanction — whether it is three months or immediately the card will be transferred there for 18 years. We should have the courage to look at these. But, as Mr Heinonen said well above, everything we were thinking about in this Chamber last year was a good study, and it is hoped that during this year, perhaps even more quickly, we will be able to take this matter to a conclusion that our young people will have light cars for safety. Weight limits can be discussed, but it is not economically sensible to make pretentious transfers to the category of tractor. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u7	Mr President! The idea of this light-duty car has lived in my opinion, at least since 2013, when this is the first time that Parliament has spoken about it. Last season, Parliament was then fairly united in getting this law laid down. This light car is intended for young people, and the idea is that it improves the mobility of young people. This term ‘light-duty car’is perhaps misleading because it is a typical vehicle with a weight and Perhaps this should be called a youth car rather than a light car. I was in the Committee on Transport and Tourism dealing with this issue during the previous period, and at that time we set, among other things, the speed of the car at 60 km/h and were very strict with regard to the year model of the car and the safety technology. After all, the model was limited to at least 2014 or more and in the future to a maximum of 10 years old. The reason for this is that such vehicles are always equipped with almost the most modern safety equipment, and especially from 2014 onwards with crash prevention, ABS brakes and so on, in addition to the safety body. The good thing about this light car or youth car is that it is not necessary to invest in a separate means of transport, but that car could then be converted into a normal car when the user turns 18. We voted on this last period and we were very unanimous on it: 167 were in favour of this proposal. I therefore hope that Parliament will have the same unity and determination to move this issue forward in the future. Let us not be guided by the European Union, but let us do what is good for Finnish young people and Finland. I firmly believe that, when Parliament expresses its will in this matter, our officials will be so skilled that they will be able to regulate this matter in such a way that it will also be able to withstand more critical scrutiny. It is of particular interest now to hear the debate and go over this issue, and hopefully this will proceed as planned.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u8	Madam President! To Mr Heinonen's speech, I would like to start by saying that, as Minister Marin has exemplaryly informed Parliament, each of us by e-mail, the Minister is unable to take part in Parliament's deliberations today when he participates in the President's delegation's mission abroad.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u11	Mr Kymäläinen has proposed that the matter be put on the table for the second plenary session to be held today. So it stays on the table. Are there any other suggestions as to when to put them on the table? I would ask those Members who wish to speak here to stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u12	President! I am sure that putting on the table is a proper, well-founded proposal, but if I understood correctly the debate that has taken place here so far, it has highlighted the argument that it would be appropriate to consult the minister concerned.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u13	I now call on the representatives to make possible alternative proposals. This debate is taking place on the table, just as Mrs Kanerva has said, but this debate is now exclusively on the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u14	Mr President! I support Mr Kymäläinen's proposal. After all, we experts consult the committees, this plenary never listens to the experts.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u15	Mr President! I do not understand this table-setting proposal at all: we want this to be discussed, but now we want to interrupt the debate when the Minister is not here later today. Moreover, I would even like to see a European minister here, because this is a situation in which we very strongly want to follow the EU's even slightly inappropriate arguments if two pages are read.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u16	Madam President! I support Mr Kymäläinen's proposal to place him on the table. Today there was a long debate in committee on the subject, and those arguments were largely based there in the committee's debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u17	Madam President! My thoughts were similar to those of the esteemed representative, Mr Kanervan here. In a matter of this kind, which attracts such interest, it would be appropriate for the rapporteur minister to be present to tell Parliament what this is really about. However, account must be taken of the fact that 167 Members of Parliament have supported this law in this Chamber. The law has been passed, it has been signed by the President, it has been given a date for its entry into force, and now there have been unexpected changes and things to be specified. In this respect, the Minister should be present and we should hear them clarify the points that need to be taken into account. That is why this table setting date must be such that the Minister is present. Now I cannot say the date when I do not know the Minister's timetable, but I hope that one of my colleagues will say when the Minister will be here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u18	I would ask the representatives to focus now on this point. There has been a motion in favour of today's sitting. Representative Meri has proposed a date of 16.10.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u19	Madam President! I hope that Parliament's authority will be defended in this Chamber and that we will also have a good opportunity to have a debate with the minister who is presenting the matter. This does not meet the requirements of good legislation, Mr President, the Secretary-General and the rest of the House.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u20	Two supported proposals have been made. Any other suggestions? I would ask the representatives to stand up and make suggestions. If not, then the debate on the table is closed. The sitting will therefore be suspended for 15 minutes and we will then vote on this. The session will resume at 2:50 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u21	The sitting adjourned at 2:33 p.m. and the third item in the order of business will now be resumed. Suna Kymäläinen, supported by Satu Hassi, has proposed that the matter be put on the table for the second plenary session to be held today. Leena Meri, supported by Timo Heinonen, has proposed that the matter be put on the table for the plenary session on 16 October 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u22	The proposals must be put to the vote. Putting on the table for today’s second session ‘yes’16.10. The session shall be held ‘not’.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u23	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. The matter was put on the table for the plenary session on 2 October 2019 at the plenary session on 26 September 2019. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u24	Madam President! This is therefore a citizens' initiative to abolish the power tax on diesel cars, and there was a great deal of debate about this citizens' initiative last week. This citizens' initiative has been signed by 125,000 people. That is a great deal, and that is why the citizens' initiative must also be brought to a proper, rapid and prompt debate here in Parliament. That is why I myself would have liked this debate to have been able to take place last week in order to bring this matter forward. There was also Minister of Finance Lintilä here, under whom tax matters fall. Lintilä was there specifically with regard to the consideration of the citizens' initiative. That's commendable. All in all, from this examination of the power tax: can it be viewed as a separate matter, as a single issue in relation to motor vehicle use? The taxation of motor vehicles is indeed hard in Finland, but there is a great need for private cars in Finland because of long distances. Personally, I would see that an individual examination of the power tax is not justified, but that the whole tax structure of transport should be assessed as a whole. This has also been the reaction of the government, as it is in the Government Programme. The VM has set up a working group to consider the overall taxation of transport in the longer term. It specifically assesses the functioning and impact of the current tax system, as well as other forms of taxation and tax-like payments. It is a good thing that this is being dealt with as a whole. Personally, I would have liked to have been able to take this issue forward even more quickly. I do not understand the fact that the Coalition Party practically wanted to move this issue from last week to here. I would also like to stress that last week the Minister for Finance, Lintilä, was in this Chamber also listening to the way in which this matter should be taken forward. The Centre believes that citizens' initiatives deserve to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u26	Madam President! Mr Torniainen is an experienced, well-known MP. He was well able to describe this content of the citizens' initiative and also the importance of this whole institution of citizens' initiatives. I fully agree with him that this citizens' initiative, which has indeed been signed by more than 125,000 Finns, deserves to be dealt with. Of course, this is more of a taste issue, which we want to place on the referral debate, for example. Of course, the most important step is when the committee makes a report. At that stage, there will be extensive consultation of experts. But now we have a good opportunity to have a referral debate on this issue, and certainly it was the will of the opposition parliamentarians and, more generally, of this Chamber last week that, when transport is collected in excess of EUR 8 billion and transport is an absolutely necessary and immediate matter for each of us in our everyday lives, we could have had such a comprehensive debate, which I think Mrs Torniainen also wisely called for in her own speech. We cannot just look at the diesel power tax as a single issue, but of course we have to think about this whole package of over 8 billion. I understand very well why so many Finns quickly signed this initiative: the idea of a diesel power tax has been to compensate for the price difference between different fuels or the cost difference between vehicles using different fuels. It is clear that at a time when the pump price for diesel fuels was higher than the price of petrol, this initiative made the Finns move widely. The issue of the taxation of diesel cars is still more than topical and, in this respect, of course, I would have liked us to have also had members of the Government presenting steps on how the comprehensive tax reform that they have presented at least in the media is being prepared. Unfortunately, there have been somewhat grouchy proposals on the part of the government on this issue. The heavy increases in fuel tax that will be presented to the state budget next year will hit the purchasing power of Finns, and in this respect we are concerned about the government's policy on the matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u27	Madam President! It is indeed important to deal with this citizens' initiative in Parliament when 125,000 people have signed it. Last week, when we discussed, I said in the debate that I would also interpret the debate as a broader debate on the increase in the cost of driving, although the citizens' initiative is specifically related to the abolition of this diesel power tax. As a representative Autto here said, the tax was created to compensate for the tax differences between fuels, not so much the price difference that is visible on the pump itself, but nevertheless this concern of the initiative makers is big and important and tells us that Finns are concerned about how the costs of mobility and living in different parts of Finland are increasing. Well, now that this initiative is before us, how does the government answer the Finns? How does the government answer these 125,000 Finns who have taken this initiative? They have decided to increase fuel taxation by 250 million next year, and this will be reflected in pump prices. It will be visible when that Rauman housewife goes to work in Eura and refuels her car in Rauma. You can see it when that Korean metalman drives into Kankaanpää every day and comes home to make a living for his family. That is quite clear. This position of the government from the point of view of climate policy and transport policy is quite confusing in many respects. The second point I raised here before is that the government has decided to abolish the aid for so-called paraffinic diesel, totalling EUR 120 million. When, somehow, I would like to believe that we have a common will here to ensure that the cleanliness of fuels is improved, so that emissions are reduced again, the government will also respond in such a way that it is precisely its purest fuel incentive that is removed. And, ladies and gentlemen, this tax change will also be visible at the end of the end. At the end of the day, I would like to say that colleagues from the government parties have said here that this government will not increase the costs for industry and businesses. That is what has been said here. At the same time, however, Jussi Pesonen, the CEO of UPM, has stated in his blog that this increase in fuel taxes means an additional annual cost of EUR 4 million for UPM alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u29	Do they want to make a debut on this?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u30	Madam President! I think it is really premature to attack any party before this initiative has been properly dealt with and before the government has reformed the taxation of motor vehicles, which is on the government's agenda. Instead, I would like to raise the Group's environmental programme, which aimed to shift the taxation of new cars from the tax on acquisition to the taxation of motor vehicle emissions. That would mean replacing some 950 million pots with taxes on driving. That would mean an increase of about 20 cents in fuel. This was in your election programme, and I am glad that this type of increase was not made by this government alone, but rather looked at as a whole how we can reduce emissions, but we do it in a humane and fair way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u31	Mr President! Here someone exclaimed from these last year’s treaty negotiations, in which all parties except the Finns of Finland were involved — this climate agreement, which was discussed here in Parliament. It was also the basic Finnish argument when people are not told how this is done and what it costs. Here is a good example of what it costs. It costs the average person an extra litre at the fuel point because, with these compensations and these measures, the government wants to direct people's traffic behaviour, apparently to cycling or something else — I cannot yet say where, because, as Mr Kalmari said, these measures are coming. [SunaKymäläinen's interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u33	Mr President! I think that Mr Torniainen, the vice-president of the Committee on Transport, well described this situation. However, from the point of view of taxpayers, the government has compensated for these matters by tax reductions. We've been talking about it for the last three weeks in this room. We have to look at taxation as a whole. After all, the government has now launched the preparation of a sustainable tax road map with energy taxation, transport taxation and consumer taxation. With regard to transport taxation, it has been said that social justice and regional equality are taken into account in the work. This regional equality, which the opposition has used as a card many times, is taken into account in this overall transport taxation, which is extremely important to us who live a little outside the capital region.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u34	Mr President! Just yesterday we were able to read about how fast the population is concentrating in Finland. The most effective way to centralise the population in Finland is to make working in rural areas and small cities more expensive.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u37	Mr President! A couple of clarifications. Here Mr Meri stated that the Finns of Finland will be removed from these increases, but in 2016, the previous government increased the fuel tax, and you were involved in the government's adoption of the solution together with the Coalition Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u46	Madam President! A lot of people here are talking about climate change. Diesel cars have become less emission, even superior in overall efficiency, given the efficient particulate filtration of diesel cars and the reduction in emission limits since 2010 from 1.5 to the current 0.4. Many people here are also concerned about the depopulation of the countryside. The diesel truck is an enabler of everyday life for many there, not a luxury product. In Congestion Finland, as many as 80 per cent of the car fleet is used in petrol-powered cars, and thousands of cars run there per hour. In statistics, Diesel Truck Finland is a less populated area where nearly 50 per cent of the car fleet is diesel, but there are only dozens of cars on roads per hour. Emissions from private motor vehicles driven by diesels are therefore a small part of the overall picture. In Finland, road transport taxation is also high in international terms. About EUR 8.4 billion of tax revenue for road transport
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u47	Mr President! After all, Diesel is currently paying and, in fact, already paid more than gas for some days last year, and 125,000 Finns have said that this is not going to work. Of course, we need to look for some sensible solutions for this, because diesel cars are cleaner today than petrol cars, and now their buyers are paying an expensive diesel tax. But what is this government doing now? The gas and diesel prices will be increased by around 7 cents per litre next year. The last thing we heard was that light cars are now being buried and congestion charges are being imported into this country. And I understand that these measures are very painful for the city center. Congressman Beachkangas, I've considered you to be a man of reason and of the countryside.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u50	Mr President! After all, this policy is a whole. As stated yesterday, 70 per cent of Finns benefit from the government’s decision, i.e. the purchasing power will be strengthened. There is a significant proportion of those low-income people in rural areas. And I would like to return to the fact that your car tax line is such that you would abolish car tax on purchases, which means that, of course, wealthy Finns could buy more cheap cars, but those pensioners living in remote villages, with small incomes, will not be able to buy new cars even if the tax has been abolished.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u53	Mr President! I am a little surprised that the centre, as the Prime Minister's Party of the last period, is explaining its current actions by what has been done in the last period. It is quite extraordinary, because now the citizens are waiting for answers to this day and to this day.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u57	Mr President! The purpose of the parafinic diesel tax subsidy was to reduce particulate emissions, not directly to reduce climate emissions. Now, of the tax aid of EUR 120 million, 70% goes to support fossil paraffinic diesel and 30% goes to support biodiesel, and that is why it is also important that we find ways of supporting diesel fuels in the future so that these fossil fuels are not subsidised.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u58	Madam President! Here Mr Rantakangas said that 70 per cent of Finns, according to a study by the VM, will increase their income next year. That is one aspect. Another aspect that is just as relevant is that because this government is now neglecting the work of Finnish workers, the wage tax of the average Finnish citizen will be tightened next year. You don't compensate for the blackmail on these people, and that's a fact. The calculation of the Central Union of Taxpayers is completely transparent and is visible to everyone. On top of this will be fuel tax increases and so on, so I hope we will stick to the facts in this respect. I also call on the government now to look ahead and explain why you are making these decisions. Don't look at the rearview mirror all the time. Take responsibility. You're on the board now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u59	Madam President! Indeed, we are dealing with a citizens' initiative on the abolition of the power tax on diesel cars, but this debate has now been extended by the opposition to fuel taxes, and the opposition is now accusing the government of increasing fuel taxes in next year's budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u64	Mr President! Of course, this increase in fuel taxation is historic. I want to bring to this debate the daily costs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u67	Mr President! I can imagine that it is very difficult for a citizen who listens to this debate to listen to this debate. None of the Parliament Party’s hands are clean increases in transport fuels. Unfortunately, almost all previous governments have had to make increases and so will this government. Regional and social justice are very important issues. When we do this broader tax reform, these are absolutely essential things to take into account in this too. But let's take a look at this day and the presentations and future actions of this government. We want to make sure that the low-income and middle-income people also have purchasing power. That is why we are now making improvements to basic security, improvements to the minimum pensions, improvements to benefits, and, by the way, we are putting quite a lot more money into basic access: 300 million more, 340 million for next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u68	Mr President! In this regard, many Members have spoken well, and I would like to take up the speeches made by the representatives of the government parties, Mr Kalli and Mrs Torniainen. We in this Chamber have a broad common understanding across the government-opposition line and over the parliamentary term that we need to invest in our transport infrastructure and that this comprehensive tax reform is also needed for transport. In this respect, Mr Torniainen, who has rolled the ball over to us on the opposition side, that we have now expanded this debate, has, in my view, made a very good opening speech in this debate, in which he has just called for this broader tax reform. That is why, Madam President, this debate has perhaps gone a little further than just this diesel power tax. I would also like to stress why the opposition is concerned about this. It is certainly as if the government were suggesting that seven out of ten revenue deciles next year will have money left in hand, purchasing power will improve. But what happens to those hardworking people when taxes are put on the tax?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u69	Mr President! I would perhaps like to take the debate back to this important citizens' initiative, which has been signed by a very large number of citizens, and which also reveals the concern and the need that the Finns have in large measure for cars to be too expensive for many middle-incomers. And it is not just in Northern Finland, for example, but throughout the country. For example, here in the capital region, many people have to travel long distances to work. I am also in favour of looking at fuel taxation as a whole, which takes into account both petrol and diesel cars and renewable fuels, such as biogas. I am very pleased that the Ministry of Finance has taken swift action in this way and has set up this working group, which will look at transport taxation in the longer term and which has also agreed that it will take account of regional and social justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u70	I will give you two more debatable speeches and then we will go to the list of speakers. — Mr Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u71	Mr President! The representative, Mr Satonen, highlighted the challenges facing rural and regional cities in terms of transport. One thing that needs to be strongly involved in this debate is the issue of professional transport. If you combine Mr Satonen's speech with, for example, South Ostrobothnia, we have large food companies in South Ostrobothnia, large metal companies constantly bringing goods to the south along highway three. If we assume that costs will increase significantly in these matters, unfortunately, we have experience in the region that even those companies will then go south on the road. This is why such increases are worth paying attention to. And one thing that still has to do with this is that when these paraffinic diesels and others are handled, we are now taking care of it,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u72	Madam President! Indeed, we are discussing the citizens' initiative and, of course, this debate has expanded to the point that we also need a review of the whole issue of taxation of fuel and motor vehicles. The fact is that Finnish motorists are very much taxed on income, and where the euro goes is the core issue. I personally hope that this working group set up by the Ministry of Finance will also clarify these issues. Like Mr Sankelo in his own speech, he also raised the issue of heavy-duty motorists, so professional biodiesel will certainly come to the debate in this context. I personally hope that these issues will be considered very extensively in the working group and will then come to us in the Chamber for discussion in due course. The fact is that fuel tax increases are always difficult. Finns need passenger cars, heavy traffic, public transport very much, and their own car is essential to people today in almost the whole of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u73	Now, after the debate, let us go to the list of speakers, Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u74	Madam President! Last week I asked for this citizens' initiative on the table because we wished the Minister of Transport had also been present on this issue. Minister of Finance Lintilä was present at the beginning of the proceedings, but Minister of Transport Marin was not. At the time, of course, we had a strong understanding of the fact that a reform as important and important as the moratorium on light-duty vehicles was known to be under discussion in Parliament today, that Minister Marin would be present, and that is where today was chosen. This is therefore a citizens' initiative which proposes the abolition of the power tax on diesel cars. It's a pretty important, big thing. As many as 125,000 Finns have signed this citizens' initiative, and their concern is that a diesel car will be taxed first, when a car is only held in a garage, and then the price will be about the same for fuel, whether you fill fuel or diesel. There is a desire to find a solution to this, and I understand the concerns and views of these people. Minister Marin replied to us why he was not here, and he said that the taxation of transport does not belong to him, but belongs to Minister of Finance Lintilä, who was present — it is true — but, on the other hand, he took a stand a moment later on the issue of transport emissions, another big issue. I personally feel that the Minister of Transport is responsible for transport emissions, but also for the tax package in transport, and that is why we expected that Mr Marin would also have been involved in the referral phase of this citizens' initiative and participated in this debate. Mr President! Now that the Minister is not here, I shall conclude my speech here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u76	Madam President! A delightful debate in itself, even though it took place on the sidelines of the matter, because yes, this citizens' initiative for a personal law initiative, in my opinion, requires consideration and is worthy of the report in committee. And the time is when it is. However, I would like to return a little to Mr Heinos and Mr Auto, which is actually what this is all about. In my opinion, flirting with the citizens' initiative is extreme populism, shows bad taste and, in fact, degrades the importance of the citizens' initiative. The citizens' initiative will not be submitted to the Government. The citizens' initiative is made for the institution with the highest legislative power, which is the Parliament. It will be dealt with here, and at an early stage, the Bureau will consider whether it is constitutionally worthy of it and not belittles or subjugates other people, but can be dealt with in Parliament. There will then be a referral debate, in which case it will be decided which committee the citizens' initiative will go to. And so far, according to parliamentary practice, the committee has almost without exception prepared a report either in such a way that the initiative does not proceed, or in such a way that it can make statements requiring the government to take action to move the citizens' initiative forward. One good example is the last period when the citizens' initiative was discussed and it was required that the transition to summer time can be stopped so that we are only within one time period. Well, it happened that the Committee on Transport and Communications stated that the EU would not allow it. We obliged the then Minister for Transport, Mr Berner, to bring it to the EU level to consider whether or not it would be possible in the EU. The EU made a decision that it is possible for us to give up moving the clocks, but the fact remains that when it is abandoned, the EU must agree on whether it is in summer or in continuous winter time. We are actually working on the basis of the citizens' initiative, which is what we are thinking about here. In my opinion, the fact that representatives in this referral debate expressed their disapproval that the Minister is not present... Well, during the presentation of this citizens' initiative there have now been two ministers, Lintilä and recently Minister Harakka, who, of course, did not have much time to be here, but in any case... [TimoHeinonenarvous]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u79	Madam President! I am in favour of the citizens' initiative to abolish the power tax on diesel cars. As has been well stated in the citizens' initiative, the balancing of operating costs on the basis of a power tax will no longer be achieved between petrol and diesel cars. Finland is a country of long distances, and driving should be made cheaper at all by calculating taxes and charges related to driving. Taxation of diesel and petrol fuels has a direct impact on domestic employment. One way to increase domestic employment would be to use domestic E85 fuel in our country's cars. It is environmentally friendly and expanding its deployment would create more jobs in Finland. The concrete measure to promote E85 is the conversion of old petrol and diesel vehicles, i.e. cars put into service before 1 January 2007, into E85-compatible. This change will cost you a few hundred bucks. Madam President! The wider introduction of E85 will require, among other things, the introduction of new ethanol-powered cars in the Finnish car market, not only for change cars. From EU countries, France has updated its legislation to allow for an increase in ethanol driving. The increased use of ethanol reduces the extraction of fossil crude oil from the soil and thus reduces the fossil carbon dioxide emissions of private cars by up to 80%. I believe that the Greens, in particular from the government parties, are ready to support such environmentally friendly projects as E85 fuel. Climate action should therefore bring more jobs to Finland, not to make the economy miserable with different taxes and charges.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u80	Mr President! We have now had a valuable debate on this citizens' initiative and, as I have already said, I personally welcome this initiative and its objective, that we need to find ways of facilitating the situation of diesel drivers, but also of other motorists. It has now been pointed out in many speeches that the power tax must be considered together with a broader review of transport taxation. After all, this initiative was taken at the end of 2018, and there was a very special situation at the time that, due to the world market price of diesel, diesel was even more expensive in the tank than gasoline. Since then, the price differential between diesel and petrol has become normal so to speak. As can be seen from this initiative, the amount of taxes per litre of petrol is about 26 cents more than diesel and the power tax on diesel cars is based on the fact that die-sel oil is less than 25.95 cents less taxed per litre than we should have in the current environmental tax model, which means that this causes us to regard taxation as a whole, because if we were to simply abandon the power tax, then it would mean that diesel should be taxed according to the same tax criteria as petrol. We, as the centre, are in favour of a comprehensive review of this taxation and of seeking solutions to it. In Finland, a long distance country where, as has been said, a car is absolutely necessary for many people, we have to make such decisions. I am glad that we in this House all seem to think that solutions need to be found, and that is why it is important that we now discuss this issue and make rapid progress on this issue, and I wish all the success in the task force set up by the Ministry of Finance, which aims at this very broad examination of transport taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u81	Madam President! This citizens' initiative proposes to abolish the power tax on diesel-fuelled cars. The reasons for this are the higher operating costs of diesel cars compared to petrol cars due to the increase in diesel fuel prices. Is it true that attention has been paid to the fact that the price of diesel fuel is almost the same as that of petrol? It is noteworthy that the increase in diesel fuel prices has been due to the supply of fuel on the world market. There has been an oversupply of petrol fuel, but there has been a shortage of diesel fuel. Madam President! The power tax does not compensate for the fuel price but for the difference in tax treatment, so that the abolition of the tax could even lead to higher prices for diesel, as the abolition of aid for diesel would also increase the debate. Transport taxation must be considered as a whole. Therefore, it is not only the power tax that can be considered. We cannot allow individual changes to the laws on our watch without a more detailed impact assessment. The Ministry of Finance has already set up an inter-ministerial working group on transport taxes, which examines the needs for transport and tax reform, taking into account the views of citizens, the environment and the economy. The working group must also take into account the concrete entries in the Government Programme and the perspective of longer-term objectives. An interim report can be expected from the working group in the middle of the next year. It is not appropriate to focus on individual, albeit important, issues, but rather to work in a holistic way. Madam President! The Government Programme has included: ‘Initiating a reform of the sustainabletransport tax and levy, which reduces emissions. The reform will be based on a comprehensive impact assessment, building on a long-term social, social and regionally sustainable approach to ensure that income and wealth disparities do not increase. The reform will be carried out in such a way that the level of taxation will change systematically, taking into account the emissions targets.’ The Social Democrats are not in favour of examining the individual part of transport taxation, but it is important to look at a larger whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Today, in this referral debate, we are talking about a citizens' initiative calling for the abolition of the power tax on diesel cars. With regard to Mr Werner's speech, it is easy to continue to say that the proposed measure of the initiative would not actually make the position of diesel drivers easier, but vice versa. The abolition of the power tax would mean that diesel fuel would no longer be eligible for aid through the tax reduction and that consumer prices would increase. It can be calculated that a 50-litre refuelling would cost the diesel driver EUR 14.30 more after the tax reduction has been abolished. Moreover, when there was concern about these transports, 13. November 1, 2018 According to the Finnish Transport and Logistics Association, compensation of the power tax by increasing the diesel fuel tax would make an additional EUR 120 million bill for roads and road transport. According to this year's calculations, the power tax will generate an estimated EUR 318 million for passenger cars, EUR 32 million for vans and EUR 56 million for lorries, i.e. a total of EUR 409 million. And now that we have talked about these millions, I understand that this is a little more than the 4 million that flashed here earlier with regard to UPM.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u84	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! So now we are dealing with a citizens' initiative to abolish the power tax on diesel cars, as we have heard many times in this Chamber in this debate, and this is certainly a subject from which each of us in the House has received feedback from the field. At the outset, therefore, I would like to thank all the people and people who have worked for this citizens' initiative, collected names and been active. One of the very important aspects of citizens' initiatives is that things that appear to be unfair in the squares and squares can be thoroughly dealt with here in Parliament. At the same time, it turns out that it is often much more complicated than it has necessarily been when writing a citizens' initiative, for example. It can be said this time too, and on the other hand it can be said that there are very few simple, simple solutions to these difficult and complex problems. The debate on the abolition of the diesel tax has come up from time to time, and when the price of diesel in the fuel pump has in some places gone up close to gas prices, the debate has, of course, gained momentum. The development of fuel prices has been the result of the oversupply of petrol fuel on the world market and a corresponding shortage of diesel. Although the share of taxes in fuel prices is high, it is not possible to correct the situation with a simple deletion of the die-recovery tax. The taxation of fuels, as has been heard in the Chamber, is also, in my opinion, a whole in which the level of the diesel power tax has been scaled so that the tax burden on the petrol and diesel passenger car is about the same with an annual drive of about 25,000 km. Diesel’s lighter tax treatment has traditionally been designed to keep heavy goods vehicles running in order to enable the export industry, among other things, to operate. This too is important to note. The current tax system is complex, and many things are involved, whether we like it or not. Whether taxation needs reform and whether the current system is the most effective is a different matter, and for this reason a Transport Tax Task Force has been set up at the Ministry of Finance to examine the need for tax reform in transport, both from an environmental and economic point of view and from the perspective of the concrete and longer-term objectives of the Government Programme. So this is the job we're doing. As indicated, the transport tax system cannot be corrected by removing individual taxes. The abolition of the power-driven tax could even lead to higher prices for diesel, as this should also open a debate on the abolition of tax subsidies for diesel. It should also be noted that, if the power tax were to be abolished, diesel tax subsidies could be considered incompatible with EU rules. Mr President! Citizens' concerns and experiences of injustice must be taken seriously, and I hope that the Transport Tax Task Force will also look at transport taxation from this point of view and, if it is possible to simplify the system, then it will be done. Mr President! Mr Heinonen is not present at this point in the Chamber, but he will certainly be an active representative of the House during this debate. In this debate he has missed Sanna Marin, Minister of Transport, more than once here in the Chamber, and Mr Heinonen himself is starting to remind such a shadow minister in this Chamber of these topical issues, whether they relate to this citizens' initiative to abolish the diesel tax or to light cars. I would like to remind you, however, that Mrs Lintilä is the Minister responsible for this matter. On the other hand, I myself have been able to work in this house for 14 years and never remember anything like this. Minister Marinhan sent us every single representative of Parliament in advance by e-mail that he is at this session today in connection with the delegation, which includes the President of the Republic Niinistö on the way, so I think he has a good reason to represent Finland at the moment in Washington, in the role of the Finnish Minister of Transport in President Niinistö's delegation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u85	Mr President! The objective of the citizens' initiative on the abolition of the diesel vehicle power tax would reduce the cost of driving if implemented. This is particularly useful for people living outside large cities, for whom driving is a necessity and who do not always have the option of mobility provided by public transport. However, the cost of driving will be reduced only if the government does not increase the fuel tax on diesel fuel accordingly. This has happened the previous time: when the diesel car power tax fell, the diesel fuel tax increased. Fuel taxes have already been increased four times since 2011, and each time the tax on diesel fuel has increased more than the tax on petrol. This has led to a narrowing of the price differential between diesel and petrol. This fact alone justifies the abolition or reduction of the propulsion tax on a diesel vehicle. At present, diesel fuel tax is lower than petrol. Add to this VAT, the tax on diesel is more than 20 cents per litre less than petrol in consumer prices. Similarly, the price of diesel free of tax is higher than that of petrol. The abolition of the diesel power tax, if the fuel tax does not increase accordingly, would reduce the cost of driving and would encourage the purchase of a diesel car. Mr President! The abolition of diesel power tax can also be justified by environmental reasons and the effect on employment. The Government’s requirement and the EU’s environmental objectives is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions during the fuel life cycle. Their use also reduces emissions of particulate matter, hydrocarbons and nitrogen oxides. The supply and use of biodiesel and renewable diesel has continued to increase. In Finland, the main means of controlling the increase in renewable fuels in transport is the statutory distribution obligation. The distribution obligation increases the share of renewable fuel in the fuel used each year. Finland is a pioneer in the production of renewable diesel fuel, and bio-based fuel solutions are top-notch. Renewable diesel is an important export product for Finland. In 2017, Finnish oil processor Neste manufactured 60 per cent of the world's second generation renewable diesel. The main benefit of using advanced biofuels as transport fuel is the reduction of net greenhouse emissions in relation to fossil fuels such as diesel. A significant benefit is also the increasing share of fuel domesticity and the resulting employment effect. The aim of the citizens' initiative is in line with the objectives of the Finnish Environment Programme. Expensive motoring is deplorable in sparsely populated areas and makes accepting work unprofitable if it is a long business trip. In addition, the cost of driving contributes to increasing regional inequalities, because it is not practically possible to move outside large cities on public transport, but it is necessary to use one's own car for day-to-day mobility. Moreover, the switch to widespread use of electric cars is not a realistic option, as outside large agglomerations the infrastructure for charging is still small and the prices for new electric cars are tens of thousands of euros, while most Finns still drive cars that cost a few thousand euros. For this reason, the phasing out of diesel cars is not a realistic idea for decades to come, and the emissions of diesel cars are, in most cases, also lower than those of similar petrol cars. However, if a decision is not taken to abolish the full power tax on diesel cars, an alternative approach should be taken to phasing out the tax in favour of sparsely populated areas, i.e. a reduced power tax in those parts of the country where the use of the car is necessary in the absence of a public transport option.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u86	Mr President! In this regard, the Government Party becomes such a text that, by abolishing this diesel tax — the so-called diesel tax, i.e. the levy on diesel — it would increase this price. The situation is that nothing in this system is forcing us to compensate for the so-called diesel tax rate, which is 20 cents less tax than gas. The only thing we are talking about in this whole proposal is the abolition of the so-called diesel tax. It is, of course, a good thing that this is being discussed. I'm sure everyone knows where this is going. The government has only increased the taxation of diesel and petrol just because more money is available.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u89	Ladies and gentlemen! Contrary to what has been announced earlier, the 45-minute limit which was initially set is not respected and this debate will be closed once diesel has been launched. — Mr Autto.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u90	Mr President! This is certainly a wise line in order to bring forward the referral debate today. The citizens' initiative will then be able to study and reflect more closely on what this House, Parliament, wants around this theme for the citizens' initiative makers, and also what Parliament sees in this big transport tax package. Not only is Mrs Myllykoski an expert in the use of words, she also knows the constitution very well, and she also knows how to highlight such past events well, recalls the things that the parliament has done. Thank you so much for this. Indeed, it is good for us to remember now that dealing with the citizens' initiative can lead to legislative changes other than that it would be adopted as such, and it is good to take into account that, when these possible proposals for statements are then considered in the committee work, Parliament will then be able to get the Council of State back on the move on this issue. I do not believe that there has been such a spirit in this parliamentary debate and in this referral debate that Parliament wished, as it were, to impose the right of initiative on the Government in this matter, quite the contrary. The members of the Government clearly have the best information on current affairs, and perhaps the representatives of the opposition have wanted members of the Government to participate in such an extensive and important debate, precisely because they, as experts, could have added value to this. The fact that it is the issue of a diesel power tax that does not eliminate what even the representatives of the government parties have demanded: this needs to be looked at in a comprehensive way, because it is a total of more than EUR 8 billion. In this respect, we cannot ignore the fact that Members of Parliament also expect the Government to have a vision of this whole. Mr President! As the referral debate is now under way, would the committee then make statements? I believe that this tax reform should be based on the fact that motoring must be possible in Finland in the future, that working should always be encouraging, that taxes should not be introduced over taxes so as to prevent working, especially in those areas of long distances. Then I would like to add to this the question of how much family costs have been raised in recent years through various policy measures. The development of birth rates is worrying. There is nothing specific about correcting it, but in most cases, when families grow up, they also need safer and bigger vehicles, and in this sense the taxation of vehicles is also important in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u91	I would remind Members that if the speech takes more than 3 minutes, you can come here in the toilet and talk as Mr Koskela intends to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u92	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank all those who have signed the citizens' initiative and all those who are involved in it. Although the initiative today is only about abolishing the power tax on diesel cars, the issue needs to be dealt with, as has happened here today, a little more broadly. We all know that the price of diesel has already risen to the level of petrol. So the situation has changed significantly in recent years, and that is why the citizens' initiative is timely. In Finland, a car is necessary for most people. Now the government is going to increase the fuel tax on diesel. It is one of the highest in Europe. It has been raised by almost 30 cents since 2008 with the increase now coming, and I think it will be the second highest since France. Of course, cheaper diesel would be in the interests of the people, but now that this solution does not seem to be in sight, then the power tax on diesel cars could be abolished. We just got a call from a transport operator. From their point of view, every euro in the form of taxes is cost-effective. So no tax increases if you want to keep the whole country equal. It should also be noted that, as a result of the high diesel car power tax, packages and minivans have been artificially converted into lorries, where a more humane driving power tax has been applied. The safety of cars would increase if they remained in their original use. Temporary benches and other changes in cars could then be avoided. If the situation in the fuel market has been partly affected by a situation where petrol stocks are full and there is a shortage of diesel, the problem should be considered and resolved with a new consideration and review of the overall situation. Biodiesel has long been developed as a solution for the future of diesel vehicles. Its production methods are evolving all the time, and at the same time its use will increase and the price will certainly also fall sharply. At the same time, it will increase jobs in our country. On top of that, it is a climate-friendly climate action from the best point of view. We already know that investing in biodiesel will also be very profitable from a national point of view and not just investing in the future, but we will also get an export product from it. According to the latest information, the introduction of renewable biodiesel is less polluting to the atmosphere than an electric car. For example, according to Neste’s own calculations, a diesel car produces 12 grams of carbon dioxide per kilometre with the renewable fuel they produce when a full electric car loaded from Finland’s electricity grid produces 29 grams per kilometre. This is because electricity produced in Finland is not free from fossil carbon dioxide. In this respect, the future of diesel cars is therefore more bright than has been thought in recent years. I believe that the diesel car will continue to be — and must also be — one of the means of transport for the future, especially since Bosch, the leading manufacturer and producer of diesel technology, has announced that the systems it manufactures and installs can use Neste’s MY diesel. This same also Neste itself naturally promises. The liquid also promises that the wastes from which MY-diesel is produced will be sufficient worldwide. However, the current policy clearly wants to contribute to reducing the stock of diesel cars. You can already see this in the car shop. Any low-emission and extremely low-emission modern diesel cars will be credited in exchange for new cars less than for similar petrol-powered cars. Unfortunately, there is also personal experience in this area. This is about the dismantling of diesel vehicles. 2008 diesel cars were sold as much as petrol cars in Finland. Now the figure is only 24 per cent. For a long time, people have been fed distorted information about diesel cars. Even though there are already electric packages and trucks, the idea of shutting down diesel cars is absolutely absurd. New diesel cars are no longer polluting today, as was said in the old days, soot sticks, but, on the contrary, they are fully competitive in terms of emissions and comparable to petrol cars. Therefore, there is no need to increase the taxation of diesel in the tank, and at the same time, in line with the citizens' initiative, we could also look at the propulsion tax on diesel cars.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u93	Mr President! We must thank the citizens' initiative makers. There's a lot of people going after it again. I am sure that this philosophy of simply imposing a power tax will not succeed in our tax legislation and so on, because, as has already been pointed out here, this is also a matter of differences between petrol taxation and diesel taxation. But, in principle, I agree that the cost of driving should well be looked at, because, in rural areas in particular, there is a real need for a car and driving a car would allow long business trips. I see this in such a way that total transport taxation should be looked at in such a way that, if we are currently taking EUR 8 billion from traffic, then how much will we get back in the transport sector? Sweden has a bigger relationship, which returns to traffic. Indeed, this is the work of the VM's working group on this reform of the total transport tax, and it is also very commendable that the opposition, at least Laakso and Autto, have raised the issue of employment and regionalism and how this can be targeted. After all, there was at least one finger training, but when it went into the GIS and then into the control where each one drives, it didn’t really happen to people. In some ways, the use of our cars in congestion areas in relation to rural areas should also be wasted. It is quite clear that a car is a prerequisite for life in rural areas. Here we may be able to use other instruments. I hope that the citizens' initiative will be well dealt with. I think there is still a debate on which committee this is going to. These tax issues have always been dealt with by the State Treasury Tax Division, have they not? I'm sure that's where you get the motion and you get statements all over the other committees. I support the principle, but perhaps this is difficult to resolve with this power tax alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u94	Mr President! Thank you for this important citizens' initiative and for opening the debate on the abolition of the diesel power tax. The fact that the citizens' initiative collected more than 125,000 historical signatures indicates that the issue is of exceptional importance to Finns. As Mr Marttinen has rightly pointed out earlier in the debate, this Cossack initiative is a bigger issue than the diesel power tax alone. This really is a demonstration. This is a sort of emergency cry for the ever-increasing costs of driving. For the majority of Finns, the car is a necessity. It is a necessary tool for day-to-day management and working. People do not drive their laziness or indifference, but their activity, hard work, and enterprise. Driving is also equality in the country of long distances. It also makes it possible to live outside the centres, outside the large cities. It makes it possible for the majority of families to work for parents of both young children. Of course, there are harmful externalities, i.e. emissions, but in the Finnish debate on driving, it is often forgotten that the car also has the positive externalities described above. It seems that only these negative externalities have been taken into account and priced in Finland, and they are indeed highly priced. In Finland, approximately EUR 8.4 billion of taxes are collected annually from transport. Taxes on motor vehicles include fuel tax, vehicle tax, car tax, insurance taxes, VAT and so on. And about EUR 3 billion of this total pot will be charged as fuel taxes. In other words, the power tax compensates for the differences between the tax levels of fuels, not the differences in the price of different fuels, and is levied on fuels other than motor gasoline. It is quite clear that the fate of the power tax must be resolved and resolved soon, at the very latest as part of the overall reform of transport taxation, which the government will hopefully move forward quickly. However, the direction shown by the government is worrying. The Government is increasing fuel taxation by EUR 250 million. This results in an additional cost of EUR 150 per year for a family dependent on two cars for average kilometres. For many, this means a further bill for working and, for example, taking children to hobbies. In relative terms, the increase in fuel tax penalises the most low-income Finns. Moreover, as we know, the government is abolishing the tax subsidy for paraffinic diesel, which will also have an impact on this situation, and I find it particularly worrying that this will affect the competitive conditions of pure MY diesel. So this is the wrong direction. Caring in Finland must be affordable. People must be able to afford to work and to be active. We do not want Finland of passive people, but Finland of active people. Finally, I would like to highlight the unfair pricing of CO2 emissions in Finland. In 2018, the price of CO2 emissions in the transport sector was approximately EUR 250. In industry it was at most about a quarter of this. However, it has been rather difficult to achieve emission reductions in transport. Well, in industry, in the emissions trading sector, these emission reductions have been achieved more effectively. What does this tell us? Firstly, the fact that emission reductions do not target cost-effectively because emissions are priced differently in different sectors of society. Secondly, this means that by increasing the cost of driving and increasing the cost of emissions from motor vehicles, emissions from motor vehicles will be influenced and relatively little can be done to influence emissions. In other words, government tax increases to fuel tax seem fiscal. Their basis is therefore to raise more money for the state treasury, not to reduce emissions, as Greens, for example, actively claim. In other words, means other than punishment and tax increases are needed to reduce emissions. Instead of discipline, incentives and support for new technologies are needed. However, the Finnish car fleet is constantly ageing. This is due, among other things, to the car tax, which was supposed to be a temporary tax, but which is still in force and leads to Finland becoming a graveyard for Swedish cars, a cemetery for used cars, a cemetery for high-emission cars. If and when emissions reductions are to be achieved, it is essential to reform the car fleet. Well, there is a way to do this, among other things, by abolishing the car tax and thereby supporting the domestic car trade, that value added also remains in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u97	Mr President! The citizens' initiative looks like its signatories. They are concerned about moving around in our regions, and I must say in particular that, as a factory worker of the Ay movement myself, I am here that yes, in terms of travel and business travel, my own concerns are as to how merit development can follow if more drinks are going on the way to work all the time. I therefore hope that, when this overall reform is being carried out, we will have the courage to do everything we can, and I hope that this government will not go down the road of taxing the right to work tourism or how companies pay kilometric compensation for the use of their own car. It is also a particularly great burden for those who represent companies and try to sell their products and thus seek a living. We have to make it possible for this system of ours to work. In particular, in the service sector, which runs on rubber wheels so that maintenance activities can ensure that industrial plants and communities operate smoothly, no additional costs are desired. They come to employees, they come to businesses, and we do not really have the opportunity in that sector to operate and, so to speak, the money below the line will be weakened. I hope for a valuable and reflective debate on this citizens' initiative, and, of course, if this is not quite historical, then the second most important thing is that this has been about collecting names – the will campaign 2013 collected 166,000 names, and the rapes were about the equal marriage law, which then went through as a citizens' initiative. It is important that we can have this debate so that we can also discuss what is emissions, and in that sense some kind of nice dream could be that car rides come in such a way that the one who gives up the use of his own car and moves on to carpooling, could part of that tax advantage get for himself, however, and it would be calculated in his climate work, i.e. encourage people to participate in it so that the more emission-free I can act, the better I have to get this kind of win-win situation as well. In other words, the diversity of this overall reform debate. Let's not knock each other out, let's listen to each other and try to catch up that hey, this is a good idea, and let's move forward together and take this in a dignified way to the finish line, as Mr Pirttilahti said. I also hope, for my part, that this is on the table of state resources and I hope that at least the Committee on Transport and Communications will deliver an opinion on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u98	Mr President! This is a very good citizens' initiative, so it is perfectly understandable that 125,000 Finns signed this initiative. I think it's the second-most-signatured initiative. This type of artificial tax, as this diesel fuel tax is, is a legalised robbery, an outrageous one. Finland taxes its citizens very heavily when compared with most European countries. Our overall tax rate is the fifth highest among 28 EU countries. Motoring Finland also taxes more than most EU countries. In Finland, EUR 8.4 billion are collected from road transport, and only about 19 per cent of it is returned to the development of the transport network. Although Sweden is a larger country and has a larger population, it will raise EUR 9.6 billion, or just a little more, but will return 53% to the transport network. In other words, Finland returns 19 per cent, Sweden 53 per cent, so you don't have to wonder why Sweden's roads and transport networks are in so much better shape. Finland uses taxes collected from motorists for anything other than what they should be used for. A Finnish motorist feels that he is taxed unduly and unfairly. Motorists already pay a lot of taxes on fuel. In addition, there are taxes on the purchase of a car, i.e. registration taxes are the second highest in Finland. There are also taxes on insurance, maintenance, tyres, spare parts and so on. I agree with 100% of motorists: the power tax on diesel cars should be abolished. Its money is needed by Finnish families for daily shopping, food, clothing and so on. For small entrepreneurs, too, these unnecessary taxes on motoring impose an excessive burden. And you don't always have to think about where the money's from. Taxation is not a zero-sum game. Many times it has happened that once taxation has been reduced, tax revenue in the state treasury has increased. This is, of course, particularly difficult for the left to understand that it would go this way, that if taxes were to be reduced, then the accumulation would increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u101	President! I would like to extend the framework to this debate. It has not been properly taken into account here that many countries, including China, Denmark, Germany, South Korea, Sweden, France, Great Britain, a dozen countries at present, will ban the sale of new cars with an internal combustion engine. The intention is precisely to encourage, within 10 to 15 years, direct production of cars as electric motors. Similarly, many cities, such as Rome, Barcelona and Paris, individually also go along with this. Then at the same time large companies, such as after 2026 Volkswagen, which manufactures us dear and familiar cars such as Škoda, Seat, Audi, all Volkswagens and many colleagues from the collection of Porsches,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u104	Mr President! This is indeed where we are talking about the power tax and that citizens' initiative. It has been signed by 125,000 people, a huge number of people, which is, in a way, a protest against this entire tax system, as has been pointed out. Of course, taxation has two effects. After all, it can be used as a stick or carrot, it can always be directed either to a newer fleet of cars, it can be done in this way, or it can be controlled in the use of fuels. I am actually annoyed when I have actually liked biofuels and biogas before. We've got Erkki. The squid in the Jyväskylä region invented this so-called biogas car. It actually fell when we also have a strict diesel tax on bio-vehicles and biogas vehicles. I went to Punkalaitume with Mr. Arto Satose, and there is a biogas plant under construction. Let's hope it's still going to be ready for economics. So these plants are in Finland so that we could use our own energy, biogas, and we wouldn't have to use fossils then. In other words, when this tax reform is being carried out, I see the very point that is also being directed towards cleaner engines, including internal combustion engines, as has been mentioned here. If, for example, we are dealing with Euro 6 or now with seven, they are now more clean than electric cars. I understand this thinking of electric cars, but when you look at the total car, the age, the structure, those emissions are different again at a later stage. There should now be some incentive in tax planning for domestic energy production and for domestic fuel, like biodiesel, but equally for biogas material in this proposal from the Ministry of Finance, including encouraging taxation of new biofuels.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u105	And now, Congressman Helpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u106	Mr President! In this regard, Mr Al-Taeee presented a somewhat stereotypical idea of this kind, but of course I accept the sense of humor behind it and perhaps lighten the mood by saying that it would be great if we could all drive these Porsches, because it is one of the few car brands that Finland produces. Then we support Finnish work, Finnish industry. But surely this is not realism in real life. In this respect, perhaps, Mr President, Mr Satose's good speech that these increases in fuel taxes, which the government is now proposing, are hitting hard on Finnish work, was one of the most important speeches in this debate, because indeed driving in the provinces is necessary in this time and will certainly be necessary in the future. However, the regions are making very far the beginnings of the value chains which will then be processed so that our export industry has the products that ultimately finance welfare. In this respect, it was very important for Mr Satose's speech that the government must continue to worry about maintaining the vitality of the provinces and maintaining the incentives to work in such a way that the work and the workers meet. Mr President! The problem of matching the workforce is currently very big all over Finland. We need experts all over the country to keep the wheels of our export industry running. And indeed, Mr President, when the government has questioned why this debate on the abolition of the power tax on diesel cars is taking place so much, and why, for example, it is hoped that the ministers will be here, then the Member of Parliament, Mr Al-Taee, has quite rightly extended this debate to what will normally be the future of motoring, which will be the driving force of cars when cars are needed anyway. This is an absolutely essential issue, and that is why there should be a large number of ministers here to discuss the future, too, because, as we have heard, the statements that might then be made in that committee may lead to legislative changes in the future. As a result, I would like to ask Mr Al-Taele a rhetorical question: do you know how long it will take if, at the current rate of cobalt production, all the cars in the world were replaced into electric cars? I can answer that it will take 866 years. In other words, either technology must develop quite dramatically or a huge number of new cobalt mines will come into the world. Mr Al-Taeelle, I can tell you that Finland is already a key producer of cobalt in the world, but yes, we must then have a very serious debate on its values.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u107	Still, Mr Autto, three minutes on the ground. — The name of Mr Al-Tae was mentioned so many times that one reply to this point was made.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you also to Mr Auto — I agree, so Porschethan belongs to you, and it is important that they are. But in connection with this cobalt: it is this salt battery technology that will replace its need for cobalt, and it will be developed very strongly in Finland. This is the kind of development that's coming. And at the same time that cobalt occurs in Finland, we will use it now until this salt battery technology comes into force. We will also take advantage of that direction. And at the same time The liquid is developing a very valuable and important biodiesel for us, and it receives some 69% of the profits. In other words, in this renewal of the car fleet and in the whole of this energy policy and the reform of these materials, there is now a transformation in which Finland is really ahead of the others. This future will certainly be discussed in this great hall too, for after that
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u109	Back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u110	Mr President! We have had a debate today on the abolition of the power tax on diesel cars, and this is the citizens' initiative, which has in fact collected the most, which has perhaps reached the almost fastest limit of this required 50,000 signatures, but has also collected a very large number of more than 120 000 signatories who do not understand that today we have to pay our own price for keeping a diesel car in the garage, and then with that tank almost the same price as gas at a litre price. Yes, having listened to this debate too, we in Finland are now swearing terribly hard on the names of electric cars and, in my opinion, blaming diesel drivers in vain. In fact, our fleet of cars in the Government of Rinte will continue to grow old, so we will not renew the fleet; the new government will not encourage that. We currently have about 750,000 diesel cars in Finland, and when we know that we also drive the oldest cars in Finland from the Nordic countries, we know that the cars that have now been acquired will be driven for another 10 to 15 years, even a little longer. It is therefore pointless to imagine that these will only be solved by electric cars or something else, but we must encourage the users of diesel cars towards lower emissions. For example, MY-diesel — which has also been spoken a number of times in this Chamber by the former Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo — is a 100 % fuel made of waste and leftovers, which is also suitable for diesel cars that say ‘nobiodiesel’. In other words, it operates in existing old diesel cars and has about 90% less carbon dioxide emissions — even a little more — than in this traditional black diesel. Well, how would this get us to solve these traffic emissions? Traditional diesel cars, these 750,000 diesel cars, produce about 3.3 billion kilos, or 3.3 million tons of carbon dioxide. If we were to turn this tax advantage now to buy MY diesel, that would mean that the emissions of these 750,000 diesel cars would fall to 330 million kilos, that is to say 0.3 million tonnes — a fraction of what is now. And this would be a way of genuinely solving our transport emissions problems much more effectively.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u115	Mr President! Mr Heinonen spoke so well about this theme that there is not much to add to it. But I would also like to make sure that Mr Al-Taee made a good and visionary speech on these technologies of the future and, above all, we discussed these possible stereotypes, which could be the cars used by representatives of different parties: indeed, our family is driving a Koda Octavia. And as the family grew last summer, we bought used Volkswagen Caravelle, and now, for the sake of transparency, let's say that it is indeed a diesel-powered car, so that in this sense I speak in my own matter, as well as very much Finns in those provinces will see it as their own. But to this matter in itself, so much that... Or, in fact, today, Mr President, there is the second plenary session in which we will perhaps go a little further on transport policy, road safety, so that perhaps this will be enough for now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u116	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u117	Mr President! This is about improving housing conditions for special groups, and we in the opposition have applauded when the Rinte government deserves praise. Very often there have been no seats, and that is why, at this second reading, I thought that I should like to thank you again for this good proposal, because this is one of the few good proposals from the Rinne government that takes things in the right direction. This is about raising the investment grant for students and young people. We have an increasing number of young people who need student and youth housing, and this increases the investment subsidy threshold. Last season, the Centre and the Coalition Party and the Finns-based and later the Blues took good measures in this housing policy package. Among other things, the restrictions on the size of dwellings were changed, i.e. the minimum size was removed to make more efficient housing, those young people need and, on the other hand, to which their money is also sufficient. Accessibility claims were also changed that not all dwellings need to be accessible or that not all apartments need three cycle circles anymore; it is enough that these houses have accessible housing and then, of course, public spaces, stairs and others, are accessible for all. But our need will grow to these student dwellings at a rapid pace. For us, public transport in a sparsely populated area is becoming increasingly weak, that is, access to upper secondary school and vocational school is becoming more and more difficult, and this means that young people are forced to move away from their own home at an increasingly close distance to a secondary school, vocational school or upper secondary school. There is still a good presentation here today about light cars, and it was actually one of the things we wanted to do to help young people get on safer means of transport between home and study — vocational school or high school. This was a fine proposal which was made during the last period and adopted by a large majority in Parliament. It now seems that the winds have changed and that the motion is no longer moving forward in such a way that it is at least as attractive to young people as it was intended to be during the last period. Then the need for these dwellings will increase, i.e. running by public transport will not succeed — nor will it be possible in the future with light cars, apparently, the policy of this current government, which has followed. It is hoped, however, that this improvement in housing conditions for special groups will take place as a result of this increase in investment aid.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u118	This is an excellent proposal from the government, and when Mr Heinonen just laudedly praised this government proposal, I really cannot do more than thank Mr Heinonen for his thanks to the government, and we hope that this will be a matter of legality and good treatment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-02-ps-41.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
