ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-20-ps-35.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-20-ps-35.u2	Mr President! This government proposal for a church law contains a law that would replace the current church law. This proposal is in line with the Council’s proposal, and this proposal and proposal have been adopted unanimously by the Council. In the same context, the church assembly also decided to reform the church order of the council’s own decision-making power. This proposal is a codification of the legislative nature with a view to making it more structurally clear and more accessible to the user. After all, this current church law has been in force since 1994, and so far it has been amended more than 50 times, so we can imagine that this whole entity is now very patchy. The codification project therefore results in this government proposal and aims to focus on legislative technical reform of church law. There are therefore no significant substantive changes compared to the current law — for example, the relationship between church and state — but some minor substantive changes are included in the proposal. Here are the following: For example, some clarifications are proposed regarding the provisions on changes in congregational division. The Church Act would include a provision on the possibility of participation and influence of members of the congregation, supported by the provision of communication and information obligations. The church’s administration would be eased by the dismantling of the submissive process in many respects. Among other things, the obligation to submit buildings, the church’s cemetery formula, the cemetery plan, and the decision to subjugate decisions regarding the change in the time of the beginning of the service would be waived, and otherwise a proposal will be submitted to the council to abolish the remaining submissive procedures in the church administration. [Murder ] In church administration, electronic meetings and the electronic decision-making process would be made possible, and more comprehensive provisions would be introduced for church archiving.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-20-ps-35.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, let us try to keep those Fridays outside this Chamber and focus on the Minister's presentation, and now, during these speeches, there will be no debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-20-ps-35.u4	Mr President! 70% of Finns belong to a church which is now undergoing a comprehensive reform of the legislation governing its activities, and I therefore believe that this deserves an in-depth debate both in this Chamber and then in the committees. After all, church law dates back to the time when the relationship between the state and the church was very close at first. Over the course of a century, church connections to the state have become lighter and its public law status has been reduced. The purpose of Article 76 of the Constitution on the Church Act is to protect the autonomy of the church, which is further confirmed by Article 11 of the Constitution. freedom of religion and conscience and the law on freedom of religion. The autonomy of the church is also supported by the fact that Parliament can only accept this proposal as such or return it to the Council for preparation. Indeed, the proposal is essentially legislative, but contains some acceptable substantive changes: the provisions on the change in the division of congregations would be revised. A member of the congregation’s influence would be supported by providing for communication and information obligations. The church’s administration would be somewhat lightened by giving up the submissive procedure with regard to decisions such as the surrender of buildings, the church’s burial plan, the cemetery plan and the date of the beginning of the service. Electronic meetings and the electronic decision-making process would be made possible. When I started as minister of ecclesiastical affairs in 2011, I received a presentation on my desk accompanied by more than a dozen statements and decisions from the church council, the church council, the vicar, the chaplain, the chaplains, the survey office, the provincial museum, the National Board of Antiquities, the Chief of Staff of the Church Government, the Archbishop. A multi-step presentation then came to the Ministry of Education, where it was first handled by an overarchitect and finally by a minister of the church. And this decision concerned the deepening of the background of the nameplates of the Hero Cemetery Land of the Perässäsämäjoki River by a few millimeters.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-20-ps-35.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-20-ps-35.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-20-ps-35.u7	I would remind the representatives that the detection equipment in the speaker room is prohibited. — Mr Aittakumpu sets an example of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-20-ps-35.u8	Mr President! The Evangelical Lutheran Church performs many very important social tasks as defined by law. The church’s functions include funeral services and functions related to the maintenance of the population register, as well as the maintenance of buildings and movables of cultural historical value. In addition to these statutory social tasks, the church has very impressive and important social services, such as deaconism and child and youth work. These forms of work are visible and felt positively in our society, and municipalities, for example, cooperate extensively with the congregations. It is also significant that 84 per cent of the 15-year-old age group of our people attended the confessional school organised by the church in 2017, for example. As a priest of family work, I was able to see and experience very close to what a tremendously meaningful work the church and the congregations are doing. For example, deaconian workers, youth workers and child counselors are very close to the everyday lives and lives of ordinary people. Many people who have had financial problems, a relationship crisis or, for example, a difficult illness have experienced that when no one else is helping anymore, even the services of society will no longer be able to help, then the church will help. Many turn to the church in their last need. Warm thanks to the church for carrying out these important social tasks and other caring tasks. Mr President! The church’s message is unchangeable and lasting at all times. However, the church lives in a changing time and society, and that is why the reform of the church law is now very timely. The church assembly has approved this proposal as a new church law. This presentation does not include any changes in relations between the Church and the State. I welcome the fact that the preparation of this law has been guided by the principle that the aim has been to transpose as much of the church law as possible into the church order, thereby supporting and strengthening the autonomy and decision-making powers of the church. It has, of course, been quite clear in the past from a legal point of view that the church is entirely independent in deciding, for example, its marital position, which was referred to in the speech. Mr President! Chapter 1 of the Church Act provides for the church’s recognition, commission and membership, and states that, in harmony with its recognition, it is the church’s duty to proclaim God’s Word and distribute sacraments as well as actions to spread the Christian message and to carry out neighbor love. This bill rightly states that the church law should regulate matters where there is a connection with the state, and the independence of the church results in its administration being regulated more broadly in the church order, and thus, for example, the confession and doctrine of the church are governed by the internal rule of the church. It is very good that the aim of this new law is to reform the legislation in such a way that it strengthens the opportunities for participation of the ordinary parishioner and eases the administration. In all, the bill for a new church law is very good and worthy of support. Mr President! In this context, I think it is very important that we have a church in our society that displays traditional Christian values in a very visible way. In Finland, many things are significantly better materially than before. However, mental and spiritual nausea have increased, and that is what has often been discussed and questioned and wondered why. For example, mental health problems and alcohol abuse in children and young people are becoming increasingly common. Mr President! Many of the problems of our times stem from the fact that traditional Christian values have been forgotten and this sound, sustainable basis of values has been shattered. Our culture has gained too high a position in entertainment and surface association and various momentary fashion phenomena, the pursuit of economic gain and external display. In Finland, it would be a good idea to return broadly to the enduring fundamental values that our church is constantly displaying and on which the material well-being of our fatherland has been built over time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-20-ps-35.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-09-20-ps-35.u10	Mr President! As Minister Kosonen and representatives of Räsänen and Aittakumpu have already said, we have a new church law for the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Finland, which will replace the 1993 church law. The Church Act, which entered into force in 94, has been amended more than 50 times, so codification, i.e. the consolidation of a large number of acts into a single act, is more than necessary. It is a matter of global reform. The proposal, as the Minister said, is in line with the Council's unanimous proposal. The law is more of a framework law that allows for more detailed regulation in church order. It is necessary to make a more precise distinction between church law and church order. The new law is consistent and clear to the user. It is written in plain Finnish modern language, the articles have been put in a new order. This bill takes into account the need for amendments and the constitutional requirements of other legislation. It is good to remember that the amendment of the law is mainly technical. The changes in the content of the proposal are very limited. As the Minister said, for example, church-state relations remain the same. However, the changes will make the administration of the church and the congregations more efficient. The aim is to transfer as far as possible the power to regulate the internal activities and administration of the church to the church's own institutions in so far as these are not matters requiring a legal level of regulation. The motion does not change the grounds for the church and the state. The church still has a special status under public law. The proposal does not change the structures of the church administration, however, but simplifies and streamlines the regulation of administration. The content reform contained in the proposal is mainly carried out in church order. However, if I make a few withdrawals from these small changes in content, they are important to the church’s activities. The church wants to switch to digital age. In church administration, electronic meetings and the electronic decision-making process are made possible. For twenty years, when I was in the church’s positions of trust, I felt this as a clear lack that now has its solution. I consider it important to include in the Church Act a provision on the possibility of participation and involvement of members of the congregation, supported by the provision of communication and information obligations. This will increase transparency and the opportunities for inclusion. The bill eases the church’s administration by abolishing the submissive procedure: for example, the obligation to submit buildings, the church’s burial plan, the cemetery plan, and the obligation to subject decisions regarding the change in the date of the beginning of the service will be waived. These are all welcome things. The new Church Act revises the provisions on the change of parish division, and the Church Act lays down the conditions for the conversion of parish division and the organisation of the administration of the parish section, which is also needed. I also welcome the development of ecclesiastical archiving by introducing more comprehensive provisions on ecclesiastical archiving in church law and order. The church would thus comply, where appropriate, with general archival legislation. This will harmonise and clarify practices. Mr President! The special public law status of the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Finland has a long history. The church performs many important tasks, as we have heard. After this reform, the legislation of the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Finland is in place and is allowed to carry out its important role in society on the basis of its own tradition. It is wonderful that this bill is now moving forward quickly so that the church can find peace in its valuable task.
