ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report TyVM 13/2018 vp by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 19 February 2019. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u2	Mr President! I'd like to make a motion for approval in response to an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u3	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u4	Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen, supported by Ilmari Nurminen, has proposed that the section be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u5	Mr President! I'd like to make a motion for approval in response to an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u6	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u7	Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen, supported by Ilmari Nurminen, has proposed that the section be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u8	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 32/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 19 February 2019. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u9	Mr President! I will make a motion in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u10	Mr President, ärade talman! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u11	With the support of Mr Adlercreutz, Matti Semi has proposed that the section be adopted in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u12	Mr President! I will make a motion in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u13	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u14	With the support of Mr Adlercreutz, Matti Semi has proposed that the section be adopted in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u15	Mr President! I will make a motion in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u16	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u17	With the support of Mr Adlercreutz, Matti Semi has proposed that the section be adopted in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u18	Mr President! I will make a motion in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u19	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u20	With the support of Mr Adlercreutz, Matti Semi has proposed that the section be adopted in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u21	Mr President! I will make a motion in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u22	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u23	With the support of Mr Adlercreutz, Matti Semi has proposed to delete the section in accordance with objection 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u24	Mr President! I will make a motion in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u25	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u26	With the support of Anders Adlercreutz, Matti Semi has proposed to delete the article from objection 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u27	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 32/2018 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 19 February 2019. The proposals in Amendments Nos 1 to 4 are identical. In the general debate, Anneli Kiljunen, supported by Mrs Salonen, has proposed that objection 1 to 4 be taken as the basis for the debate. a draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u28	In the event of adoption of the proposal on the basis of which the objection is raised, the Parliament shall at the same time adopt the first draft law in accordance with Articles 1 and 2, 2 and 3, Articles 1 and 2 of the draft law and Articles 1 and 2 of the fourth draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u29	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u30	Mr President! The proposed amendment to the Waste Act now under discussion is a follow-up to the amendment approved by Parliament in the spring, which limited the activities of municipal waste companies in the market. The basic problem with the Waste Act adopted with the votes of the Government parties was that it was aimed at correcting a situation where there was no problem. The aim was merely to weaken the market position of municipal companies and to create an obligation for waste disposal companies to use private operators, even if this would result in extra effort, bureaucracy and spending. This proposal will now create a market place through which companies will be forced to deliver relatively small amounts of waste to a private operator, even if the municipal waste company is closer and easier to partner in all respects. The first reading highlighted, among other things, the fact that this problem is particularly detrimental to the operation of sparsely populated areas and deep rural enterprises. At this point, we really have to wonder how the Prime Minister's Party centre can support this bill. The Social Democrats did not vote in favour of the amendment to the waste law relating to the limitation of the activities of municipal waste companies which had been discussed earlier, nor do we, of course, accept this government proposal which provides for a market place. I therefore propose that the government's proposal be rejected by means of a statement of objections. Mr President! The Waste Act needs a comprehensive reform. The role of the municipal waste management company must be strengthened, not weakened, as is now being proposed. As stated in the protest, the reform now under discussion, if it were to be considered necessary at all, should only have started gradually, so that the use of the information platform would initially be voluntary, and then, according to the precautionary principle, it would have been necessary to set out the number of companies involved and the obligations. The use of the platform should also be limited to waste treatment services and small waste stations should be excluded. After all, even very small companies are now being required to use the platform in the government proposal and, if the platform has not been used, business customers are being turned away from the waste facility. However, although the committee draws attention to this problem, it was not proposed to amend the law in this regard, so this problem will remain there in any case. The proposal should therefore have been corrected so that the permanent threshold for the use of the platform would be at least EUR 10000. This point was slightly corrected by the government parties in committee, so that the threshold of EUR 1000 proposed by the government was changed to 2000 but this is certainly not enough to eliminate the problems that have been identified in this committee jointly, both on the part of the government parties and the opposition parties. The aim of waste legislation must be to make the circular economy work through more efficient recycling of waste. At the moment, Finland's targets for the circular economy are still rather modest. Indeed, examples from EU countries show that where the responsibility for waste collection and treatment lies with a public operator, recycling rates are clearly higher. Unfortunately, in Finland, the waste law has now been taken further away by government action from these good examples that come from the European Union level. The EU Commission has also drawn attention to the fact that Finland's recycling target is not being met and has proposed that the responsibilities of waste management be clarified. And unfortunately it is now that this proposal will by no means achieve this objective; on the contrary, this will cause a great deal of uncertainty, uncertainty in companies about how they should organise their own waste management in Finland in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u31	Mr President! Representative Myller thinks recycling is important, so does the government. Unfortunately, you have now painted such threats from this government proposal, which is difficult to identify on the basis of a report, on the basis of a government proposal and on the basis of expert consultations. It is true that Finland is lagging behind EU recommendations in the circular economy and that is why these reforms are being carried out. It is necessary to bring new innovations, new businesses to the market. The criticism is true of what you said about the fact that this limit at the gate was too low in the original proposal and was therefore raised from EUR 1000 to EUR 2000. This means that goods are brought in by companies the size of which systematically plan. There will be no additional burden for a very small entrepreneur. As far as this market place is concerned, the committee required that it be as simple as sending a text message.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u32	Mr President! That criticism of this government proposal came quite a bit in committee, and that criticism came precisely from the fact that this does not in any way clarify the current situation, on the contrary, it increases bureaucracy, especially for small businesses. And, of course, there is a particular concern about these efforts in sparsely populated areas. They may not have a choice as to where these waste is going. There's no choice. In particular, this issue was raised at first reading and, as I recall, it was Lapland that was used as an example here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u33	Mr President! This proposal is precisely an increase in red tape for entrepreneurs, especially for small entrepreneurs, especially for entrepreneurs operating in a sparsely populated area. At its worst, the red tape leads to an increased risk of dumping waste into the environment. I will not repeat the criticism that Mr Myller has expressed in his good speech, but I would like to raise two questions: After all, the committee drew attention to this threshold and proposed that it be increased from EUR 1000 to EUR 2000. It is a good presentation, it is a step in the right direction, but it is inadequate. In our objection, we are proposing EUR 10,000. The second point is this minimum time that this platform must be used. If you cannot prove that the platform has been used and used for two weeks, the customer, or entrepreneur, may be turned away from the waste facility, and this is bureaucracy that is not really there. This, especially for small entrepreneurs, can lead to an unacceptable risk of dumping waste into the environment. This will increase bureaucracy, and this is a threat to the environment, and that is why I support Mr Myller's motion to reject this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u34	Mr President! It is true that we discussed this issue very much in committee, but it is a matter of such importance that we should discuss it, because waste issues are a whole in Finland, which should be considered even more in the long term, as a whole, how we turn the word ‘waste into another kind of ‘raw material’. And hopefully, in the next parliamentary term, we will now be able to get a piece of legislation in preparation, so that we will no longer talk about waste at all, but talk about raw materials. These are indeed raw materials in the future. But now that we still have this waste issue at hand, we need to deal with these waste issues so that we can move forward in a sensible way. This law involved TSV, i.e. waste under subsidiary liability, i.e. waste from companies that may not deliver their waste to places other than municipal sites or otherwise have to supply it to municipalities. How much waste can be delivered to municipal waste collections was discussed about the limit. We were able to make sense — in my opinion — of the limit of EUR 2000. It was EUR 1000 in the proposal, and I believe that the EUR 2000 is the EUR which we will then be able to move in a sensible way. There was a great deal of talk about recycling and we should continue to talk about it, because recycling is a real weakness at European Union level and especially in Finland. There's a lot of work to be done on recycling. And this law, which will now be adopted, is precisely helping the recycling issue. In other words, this register, which is now being set up, helps different companies to meet each other so that they are able to deliver waste to places where waste can be processed and developed further, i.e. correctly recycled. It may be that these small businesses do not necessarily know where they can put their own waste in terms of recycling. It has been suggested in this Chamber earlier today that this should increase the dumping of waste into nature and so forth. That is certainly not what this is about, because exporting waste to nature is always a crime. This is not encouraged here, for if the EUR 2000 is to be full, no one can be returned from the gate, but all the waste must always be taken. [Riitta Myller’s interlude] It became clear that in Lapland this is a problem. Well, that's where I agree. There is no perfect law, but when we talk about Finland as a whole, this is a better law for Finland as a whole, and in Lapland this will increase the amount of red tape that their companies may have to dial once every three years more than before. But I think we in Lapland too have learned how to make text messages.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u35	Mr President! This joint opposition protest, which rejects the bill, is well founded. It is a fact that this proposal contains a number of problems, as Mrs Myller has pointed out with merit. I'm not going to repeat them any more. Firstly, the basic problem with the proposal is this too low exit limit for the link unit. This limit should be 20% allowed by the directive. Secondly, the Waste Act needs a comprehensive reform that strengthens the role of municipal waste management. This would be the right solution from the point of view of both security of supply and, in particular, the environment and human health and interests. I do not believe that the reform now being carried out, in which the amendments to the Waste Act rely on strengthening the role of the private waste sector, will work. Mr President! The arguments put forward in this objection are good, and as one of the signatories to the protest, I warmly support Mr Myller's motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u36	Mr President! Just as Mrs Majala said earlier, waste should be seen as more raw material, and in the future it should be more so. However, I see a lot of problems in this government bill myself, what Mrs Myller said earlier. Having worked at the waste management company itself in North Karelia, I know quite well that not only in Lapland but quite a lot of other large areas of Finland still have those areas where it is very difficult to act solely on a company basis in the transport of waste or in the recovery of waste so that it is still a business today. Therefore, instead of creating this type of platform for all companies throughout Finland in the same way, which is to be introduced by all companies, I think it would be more reasonable to proceed through experiments and first do this in more densely populated areas, where transport journeys are shorter and where there are clearly operators. These risks, which have been raised in the protest, are indeed real in the day-to-day management of waste, and that is why it would have been a good idea to start off on the basis of experimentation and voluntaryity. Now we are creating unnecessary and extra bureaucracy for many companies across the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u37	Mr President! The proposed amendment to the Waste Act raises a lot of questions. In the background, it is good to remember that Finland has received an early warning from the EU Commission about Finland’s being lagging behind the recycling targets, and the EU in particular points out to Finland that waste management’s responsibilities are confusing and, in particular, more confusing, the constant change in the Waste Act and related responsibilities, and in particular during this government period these changes have been seen and the confusion has increased. At least this proposal does not clarify the structures, responsibilities and practices of Finnish waste management. Mr President! This amendment obliges companies to provide their waste on the market for 14 days before they are allowed to take it to the municipal waste station if the private service provider does not offer to take it. This is the case, and this is the case, even if there are no huge quantities of waste or even if there are no private waste companies in the region. As has already been said here, this pattern becomes particularly difficult for small enterprises in sparsely populated areas, and for them this can also increase costs, because if there is one supplier there, then in practice it will have to be given the waste, whatever the cost. Mr President! Yes, on this market, and with that obligation, there will be considerable red tape for entrepreneurs and, at worst, there will be a risk that, for example, a small builder may be tempted to dump waste into the environment, when, with 14 days of waiting, this market may be a rather bureaucratic procedure. It should be borne in mind that the primary activity of these entrepreneurs is not the supply of waste but the waste generated by the entrepreneur as a by-product. Mr President! The information platform can facilitate the interaction between waste managers and waste service providers and can therefore have positive effects, but this bureaucracy, in its present form, is disproportionate. Provision should therefore be made for the use of a market place to be optional at the beginning or for the threshold to be significantly higher. The annual limit of EUR 2000 is also relatively low and it may be difficult to predict whether it will exceed EUR 2000 at the beginning of the year. Mr President! Environmental targets and recycling rates should be a priority when the Waste Act is reformed and the Waste Act is enacted, and now it seems that this may not have always been the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u38	Mr President! It is good in itself that such a marketplace should be set up so that the producers of waste and their users can better face each other. There is nothing in itself to prevent municipal waste disposal companies from also doing this work, and I think they should do it. The problem is the additional bureaucracy that has already been highlighted in many of the speeches. There would be no such problem at all if Finland were also to comply with the 20% limit allowed by the EU Procurement Directive for what a municipal waste company can sell out, but because the government has wanted to set this limit lower than in most other EU countries, the problem arises when a municipal waste company has this low percentage limit, the 5% limit, is already closed. Then there are private companies whose waste is, in principle, subject to competition. If they do not find a private company to manage their waste, they must verify that such a private company is not found, and this marketplace is now the way to verify this issue. In other words, just as Mr Sarkkinen said in this previous speech, this use should be voluntary. The fact that such an opportunity is offered is in itself a good thing, but the use of the municipal waste company's services should always be among the alternatives for small companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u39	Irade the Talman! The idea of a market place is a good one, just as Mr Hassi said, but unfortunately this implementation is not moving us forward. Just as Mr Modig said, this 14-day deadline is problematic, this quantitative measure is problematic. Of course, much depends on how these are going to materialise in practice, how the staff who are there at the station to receive them will operate within the framework of this law. In the big picture, Finland's recycling target for the next year is 50% — that is not what we are going to achieve — and I think that 25 will be 60% at European level in the Commission's proposal. The problem is that there are too few points in Finland at the moment: Ring points are too low, Sorti stations are scarce. This is, of course, partly a matter for the municipalities to decide how to plan them, how to place them, but this should be the focus of attention — just as it should be for municipalities to report on the recycling rate, they should take responsibility for setting targets and taking action to increase the recycling rate. At the moment, this is practically nobody's responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u40	Mr President! I am really wondering in this Chamber how the opposition is opposed to the development of recycling, only the opposition is opposed to the development of recycling, because this law really is trying to create an information platform and its information platform to inform the various actors now where these waste can be recycled — and the opposition is opposed to this. Well, all right. But, in any case, the whole of this regime has been a de-bureaucratic issue number one, and we have really made several hundred points sensible with which to de-bureaucraticise. In my opinion, this is also the case that, if one text is capable of trying to do this, then it is a lot of red tape when compared to the fact that a company has to start calling many places, where it can take the waste, what it has to do. There's one text that can handle it. Is this not a de-bureaucratisation and not an increase in red tape? Well, maybe I'm wrong about this, too. In any case, in my opinion, this whole thing will help to recycle waste, clarify the responsibility for waste management, it will move forward. In conclusion, however, I said that less than a week ago I visited Rovaniemi to see the construction of the CLT wooden block. There was now working on the Kuhmo CLT building, where the elements had been brought to Rovaniemi, and it discussed where the waste was. The amount of waste produced was very low. In other words, with this kind of systematic, rational action as we are moving forward, waste is also formed even less. These are the functions we need to develop even more.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u41	Mr President! Perhaps there has been a real misunderstanding here, because we do not at least oppose the development of recycling, we are opposed to bureaucracy that is alien to life, and we would like to see a market place available voluntarily to companies and then to move forward and see how it works and whether it actually works by SMS. If it works by SMS, I believe that many entrepreneurs would join it on a voluntary basis if it was so smooth and brilliant. But the fact that small businesses are being forced to use it at first stage will certainly increase bureaucracy. Mr President! We also support the choice of companies to choose the waste service they want to use. Here we come back to the previous amendments to the Waste Act, which have already been referred to here, i.e. a more restrictive definition of how municipal waste companies are allowed to take up business waste, and we see this as a major problem in terms of recycling targets.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u42	Mr President! Here we come back to this unfortunate amendment to the procurement law, which was previously made by the government parties. After all, it concluded that the threshold for external sales, which a public company could make, was pulled down to 5% when the EU allowed 20%. As a result, as in the sector, there are situations where the activities of the public operator who does good work in a cost-effective way become very difficult when it is not allowed to make supply beyond the 5% limit. As a result, the taxpayer will ultimately pay a more expensive bill. We have encountered this problem in the Committee on Audit for the Senate, which is not allowed to sell beyond the 5% threshold, even to state-owned limited companies. This orthodoxism, which is done here below all the limits of the reasonableness of EU rules, leads to the taxpayer paying the bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u43	Mr President! New ways have also been called for. Indeed, this recycling target lags slightly behind the EU minimum targets. There are also Finnish solutions, and the Group of the Environment Committee of the Coalition Party had the opportunity to discuss this with representatives of the Nokian Molok company a couple of weeks ago. They have a ready-made concept with a block-specific recycling system that would bring about one million more people in Finland to recycling. Finns are happy to recycle, attitudes are becoming more environmentally friendly all the time, but of course it is not sensible to drive a few kilometres to take a couple of tuna cans, magazines and whatever. That quarter-by-block collection is something that is worth looking forward to now. In Lithuania, for example, this has been made to work very well on this basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u44	Mr President! In this speech by Mr Kiuru, there are good examples that we have innovations, that we have means. I hope that we all agree that the waste law as a whole will be reformed into a law that strongly supports the circular economy. Let's do it. But what is the problem with this change now is that it is not real. Especially when you think of the small entrepreneur who has the load of waste, it costs two weeks to store the load of waste somewhere, it takes hours to work. Then the temptation to dump the waste becomes more readily available. And it should be understood that if for one reason or another it has not been understood how this ship works, or has not been used for exactly two weeks, then no one will be turned away from the waste disposal plant, because if it increases the risk that it will be dumped into the environment. If we wanted to increase the recycling rate — which is unfortunately low in us — then there would have been no prior changes to the Waste Act. In those countries where the public operator is responsible for waste management, the recycling rate is also the highest.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u45	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u46	Mr President! The debate on the development of the circular economy has been firm and, in my opinion, excellent. It's a common goal. This legislation brings additional elements, and we must recognise the importance of an open market place, which is now being introduced into the legislation. But problems have also been described, so further development is needed. Yes, we can continue to dismantle bureaucracy from this point of view. I believe that the opposition's comments on this point must be taken into account. I would just like to draw further attention to the fact that our municipal authorities, too, have to be researched in need of support, assistance and training on how to strengthen recycling and the circular economy within the municipality. They do not feel that this information is sufficiently available. This is at least the case when, for example, Tampere has studied the knowledge and experience of municipal employees about the functioning of circular economy and recycling. In addition, it has been pointed out that we need more collection points to recycle different types of waste. This is a very central development and quite clearly so. In other words, with these observations and with the follow-up to what is now being done about this amendment of the law: I believe that further development is needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u47	Mr President! It is certainly very easy to believe that we need better recycling, more efficient recycling, and that is the direction we must necessarily go. However, if this had been the aim of the government's proposal, we would hardly have such a proposal here today. The only reason for this is that there is more room for private business in this area. That is why this EU directive on the procurement law as adopted by us was originally adopted, i.e. a 5% exit limit, compared with 20% elsewhere. This is reflected not only in the Waste Act but also in other legislation, as has been noted. And indeed the Commission has drawn attention to the fact that we should clarify our responsibilities. I personally believe that this clarification of responsibilities would, for example, mean that municipal waste companies would be able to operate as effectively as possible where companies, for example, want to deal with municipal waste companies. Otherwise, when so much is said about the dismantling of bureaucracy, it has been added to this. On the other hand, one of the key messages of the government to citizens has been to increase freedom of choice. This freedom of choice is certainly not being implemented. At its worst, small businesses may find themselves in a very difficult situation if they have not found a taker of their own from this so-called marketplace. In other words, the fact that we have left through experiments, on a voluntary basis, where there are enough of these waste stations, and that this coordination would be good enough, would have already made progress in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u48	Mr President! Now I have to correct one misunderstanding, which has now been very much raised in the debate on this issue in relation to the opposition. In other words, if the company produces less than EUR 2000 worth of waste, it will be allowed to export these waste to a municipal location.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u49	Mr President! I would like to comment so much on Mrs Myller's speech, in which you said that companies are going to find themselves in a difficult situation if they do not find a private recipient, that this is not the case, because the municipality still has a secondary responsibility to accept the waste.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u50	And the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u51	Mr President! It highlights this threshold, and there has been no ambiguity about this. In our opinion, this threshold should be EUR 10000, accompanied by the voluntary introduction of this system.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u52	Mr President! A company does not have a problem that knows that the value of the waste produced by the company per year is below the limit of what comes under this law. Even a company does not have a problem with a private waste recovery company. But there is a problem with a company that is not sure whether the value of the waste produced by the company per year exceeds this limit laid down by law and that has not found a private recipient for its waste. In order for this company to be able to supply its waste for municipal waste treatment, if the municipality does not now have room under that narrow quota, then its company must verify that there is no private recipient — and that is what we mean by this increasing bureaucracy. If Finland had set the same limit as most other EU countries, i.e. 20%, then in practice small companies would always have the option of exporting to the municipality, but there would be no obligation if they found someone private who would do the job better.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u53	Mr President! After all, it is always possible for companies to take to any private place if there are such private ones. But then this EUR 2000 limit: We raised it to EUR 2000 because it is already in the form of waste that, in two weeks, not many companies suddenly come up with EUR 2000 worth of waste. There is a degree of planning in the business sector that it must be able to understand in that situation. That this should not increase bureaucracy, but it certainly will help companies to find other installations that will then be able to use their waste in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u54	Mr President! The basic problem here is that it has been done a little like a manual system to make the activities of a public waste company as difficult as possible and to force the situation, even if it is more expensive for society, to direct customers to the private side. This will certainly satisfy these private companies, who have long lobbied this issue and, in many different contexts, expressed their views, and are certainly very pleased to have had their way with this government now. But when we talk about this EUR 2000 border, for example, that it is not much, I would urge you to go to those waste stations and take a load of waste there. That is the annual limit, and no, I do not think that companies plan in advance how many waste loads I will do in the next 12 months, let alone know in advance. Of course, in many cases it depends on the needs of the customers of these companies again: if you are a small repair company, you cannot know how many waste pallets you will deliver here during the year and whether it will exceed this limit. This is artificial, unnecessary, made in manual control to meet the needs of private waste companies. This 5% limit, which is in the Procurement Act, is absurd and makes sensible action difficult. I would like to turn to this example of the Senate: we are now in the process of creating a situation where we have state facilities, many of which are still not very easy to market, because they are old premises and valuable facilities, and the interpretation has now been taken that the state is not allowed to rent these premises over this 5 % limit, even to the companies that it owns 100 % — thanks to the absurd regulation of this procurement law. The result is, of course, that the Senate will then be left with facilities which it cannot rent to the state's 100 %-owned companies, but they will have to go to the private market, and then the state will be forced to sell these facilities at a considerable price at some time, and someone else will go into business - just because we have done exactly the opposite of what we have done in other EU countries, unlike the EU directive. It allows a 20% sales limit when sold out. I would stress that this does not mean that it is necessarily even a sale on the public side to the private side, but can indeed be a 100 % state-owned company, and when this 5 % limit is over, then we have those who feel that the sale should be stopped. Of course, this will be corrected in some timescale — I do not think that such headless decisions will last long — but there will be a great deal of difficulty.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u55	Mr President! Just as Mr Heinäluoma spoke before, the whole problem is coming from this far too low exit limit. Since such a thing has been created, public funds now have to maintain a marketplace for private operators to get their waste somewhere. Here, Mrs Maijala wondered how many women could have such a business that could not anticipate in advance how much waste they would have. Well, it's a construction company, for example. It's precisely that small company, a few people's company, that doesn't know months in advance what they're going to be like: is it a demolition job, or is it a construction job? They tell us a lot of different kinds of waste. And that waste must now be stored somewhere until we know how much it comes and whether it crossed that line. It's not real. It's not real. A small construction company can get a gig for next week, which means you can come and unpack ten kitchens. There's the line. Or it may get a completely different job, which does not produce any waste. This is a non-realistic proposal, and that is why it creates unnecessary bureaucracy. And this is not in any way entrepreneurial. Let the norm and the pro-business government — yes, I am surprised at this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u56	Mr President! This permanent threshold for the use of the platform is necessary, but, as has already been mentioned several times, this threshold of EUR 2000 is not at all sufficient. This limit should be at least EUR 10000. I would like to make a direct comment on this objection in the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection: ‘The use should be limited only to waste treatment services and At a higher threshold, the main users will be included in the data platform — the largest volumes will apply to waste treatment services — to ensure the functioning of waste management and to prevent the burden on small businesses.’ That means less bureaucracy, please. Unfortunately, this government proposal is not going to reduce bureaucracy but, on the contrary, to increase it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u57	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u58	Mr President! I propose to the Parliament for approval two boosts, the first of which is: ‘The Commission requires the Government to prepare a draft law on the disposal of peat and fossil fuels for electricity and heat production,so that by 2030 Finland’s emissions of climate change will fall to the same level as The proposal for a “ Mr President! This government proposal is to be welcomed as such, but it still leaves important gaps. According to Statistics Finland, coal accounted for 8 per cent of Finland's energy consumption in the first nine months of last year. It is good that we are now, by law, driving down the use of coal for energy purposes. But during the same period, according to Statistics Finland, Finland took 5 per cent of its primary energy from peat, which is at least as polluting for the climate and also a problem for watercourses and bogs. According to Statistics Finland, emissions in Finland increased by 4 per cent in January to September last year, and the main reason for this was the growth in peat burning by 30 per cent. So it is indeed time to tackle the burning of peat with the same determination as the burning of coal. We all know that coal burning would not have stopped by itself. It is good that the City of Helsinki took an own-initiative decision to close the first coal-fired power plant in 2024, but we all know that this law has been needed to abandon coal completely in energy use. Similar things are also needed for peat. I very much welcome the fact that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection raised a point in the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, which states that it is important for these climate objectives to be met, that coal replaces coal and replaces coal with non-combustible systems, and that this should also be taken into account in future government decisions on energy aid. And that, too,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u59	Mr President! In this government proposal we did not put peat on the road, and that is certainly not where it is. Giving up hard coal is really a very important, acceptable thing, and fortunately we all share a common mood about it. But the peat. We're in the swamp, Finland. What is the significance of peat in Finland? In any case, the use of peat is decreasing all the time, because our wood-burning plants are developing in the style that hopefully we will no longer need so much peat, and that will continue to decrease all the time, development will take place. But peat is needed so that we can use Finnish wood fuel in a rational way. We have different weather conditions, different conditions, different wood materials. With the help of peat, we are able to produce, achieve, with it, very high-quality, low-carbon wood fuel. So definitely we in Finland should stay on the road.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u60	Mr President! I support both statements made by Mr Hassi. I think they are a good complement to this otherwise good government proposal. The proposal to ban coal is very worthwhile, but it does not take us anywhere in itself. The question is what are we going to use to replace coal? It is possible to replace coal with equally polluting, climate-friendly fuels, such as peat. That is why Mr Hassi's statement 1 is a very important addition to the government's proposal. The climate impact of peat is clear. Its environmental impact is clear, and we will not get over it or around it. The fact that it is domestic or that we have always used it does not change the fact that if we want to cope with the challenge of climate change, we need to get rid of peat. It is also very important in our climate challenge to create a sufficiently far-reaching, predictable path for operators so that they do not create false investments so that they know where we are going and the investments made will then support the climate impact and goal we want. Mr Hassi's second statement is also very important, because now that we have this good decision and we are in a position to reduce our emissions, we must at the same time cancel allowances on the EU emissions trading market. That is absolutely essential and a prerequisite for us to make emissions trading work and the price of allowances to the level that pollution actually costs and pollution is no longer worthwhile. Emissions trading is our common effective way of guiding the market to help us face the climate challenge. As far as our energy production is concerned, we are forced to get completely out of the combustion-based elements. It can certainly be seen that before we reach completely renewable, clean forms of energy, there will be a transition period in which we use biomass, among other things. But not all bio-starters are environmentally friendly. Its biomass must also be sustainably produced and investments must be driven away from combustion-based technologies.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u61	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say to Mrs Maijala that we do not seem to be entirely in agreement with this ban on coal, at least as it is currently stated. In fact, the Finns have been very critical of this government proposal. We see the proposal as problematic, especially from the point of view of security of supply. The problem is also that the expensive investments made by local energy companies in heating boilers are now threatening to go completely to waste with this reform. Furthermore, the impact of the proposal on the increase in housing costs and on the competitiveness of businesses and industry should have been better investigated. True Finns generally consider it reasonable that electricity in Finland will continue to be produced with versatile nuclear power, hydropower, coal, peat and biopower production. Mr President! With reference to these arguments, I would suggest that this government proposal in question is rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u62	Mr President! Climate change should be combated as such, but we must also keep our senses and our judgment in the fight. For example, the use of renewable domestic energy must be promoted at the expense of fossil imported fuels. This will provide work and entrepreneurship in the home country, and also in the field of technology, export opportunities. The government's proposal to ban the use of coal by force does not make sense. As Mr Immonen said, it has many harmful effects. In practice, this ban applies only to Helsinki and Vaasa. Other cities and urban areas are already making this decarbonisation earlier. In their own climate strategies, Helsinki and Vaasa have committed themselves to carbon neutrality by 2035, which is only five years longer than this law will require of these cities. It is therefore a shame for Helsinki itself, for example, that it has not given up or abandoned the burning of coal more quickly and that until 2035 it intends to do so. I wonder when I know that the Group of the European People's Party, the Greens and the Social Democrats hold power here in Helsinki. In Vaasa, RKP is almost in the sovereign position, and Vaasa continues to burn coal richly. So this is kind of special. But by 2035, when these cities have committed themselves to giving up the burning of coal, there is no need for such a law, but you need to make faster decisions locally. Then I ask why the government intervenes in the self-government of the municipalities and promises these wealthy cities EUR 90 million in State money, that is, taxpayers' money, for this measure. I do not see this as a sensible use of state resources. That is why I do not think that this should be done. The principle of subsidiarity is better. Mr President! Then there is also the effect that this compulsory law increases housing costs, for example, in Helsinki, where they are already the highest in the country. First of all, I support the rejection proposal made by Mr Immonen, and then I propose that, if, however, Parliament approves the laws, the following statement is adopted: ‘The Commission requires that the prohibition on the use of coal energy increases the costs of housing,in particular in those places where housing is of an unreasonable cost, government measures to reduce housing costs, e.g. by reducing electricity transmission prices.’
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u63	Mr President! As a Helsinki City Councillor, I would like to respond to Mr Kankaanniemi. Your speech was very confusing. You said it was a disgrace that: Helsinki has not already closed its two coal plants, but at the same time you are opposed to this government proposal, which prohibits coal burning. Well, we've started a path away from fossils in our own energy company in Helen years ago. Another closure decision was made, I think, in 15 C.E. The reason why we did not crash them at once is that, of course, we must create a sustainable, moderate investment path, so that the price of living on which you were concerned does not rise unduly. This is your concern about the price of living, and it is always necessary to bear in mind when talking about Helsinki. It is one of the central problems of Helsinki. But our own company, Helen, Helsingin Energia, has responded to this concern by saying that they do not see such a problem, they do not anticipate that heating costs in housing would increase to such an extent that it would affect the price of living. I'm just wondering what's the information that the Finns are telling me?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u64	Mr President! Mr Kankaanniemi managed to sit down at least two or four at the same time in his very short speech to oppose the increase in housing costs, and then to demand that Helsinki should, in a timely fashion, abandon coal burning, which of course also has an impact on housing costs through heating costs, and then, by assuming that this bill should be rejected because it sets new deadlines for the burning of coal. I consider it to be a juggling skill to be able to do that in a two-minute speech. If Mr Kankaanniemi really wants to get to know the matter, I would invite him to discuss it with the Chairman of the Finnish People's Party, Jussi Halla-aho, the City Ombudsman of Helsinki. He might well give good reasons for why he has been in Helsinki to present these decisions made by Helsinki.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u65	Mr President! I understand very well that Mr Modig and Mr Heinäluoma, as Heinäluoma, as strong local politicians in the decision-making bodies of the city, are being put in a defensive position when they continue to burn coal, even though Mr Heinäluoma said long ago, among other things, that carbon neutrality should be achieved. [Interjection] I respect the principle of subsidiarity and respect for municipal decision-making. And I appeal to you to make the decisions that the central government of Finland does not have to order the City of Helsinki and the City of Vaasa to do what you want them to do. Why don't you make that decision? According to this law, you will have to do so now anyway.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u66	One last reply to Mr Modig and then to Mr Hassi, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u67	Thank you, Mr President! I still cannot catch up with Mr Kankaanniemi's thinking. Do we have to ban that coal or not? At the same time, you say that we should be ashamed when we are still burning coal, I agree with you on that, but then you are opposed to banning it, I disagree with you on that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u68	Mr President! I find it very difficult to understand the logic of Mr Kankaanniemi when he opposes this law on the grounds that it would increase housing costs, but then, on the other hand, blames the City of Helsinki for the fact that the City of Helsinki has not taken decisions on the closure of all coal-fired power stations in the past. On what basis would a decision to close coal-fired power stations as part of government policy increase housing costs, but the closure of coal-fired power stations as a local activity in the city itself would not do so? And really, Mr Modig brought it up, the Finns of Finland have been in Helsinki accepting these goals of carbon neutrality. I did not find a voting map of the Helsinki decision to close the Hanasaari coal power plant, but I found criticism of that decision in the Helsinki publication by the Finns of Finland. So this is really unclear as to whether or not the Finns of Finland should:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u69	I will give the floor to the representatives of Viitanen and Ala-Nissila.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u70	Mr President! Unfortunately, for the eleventh time now, I have to say the name of Mr Kankaanniemi, namely that I, as a Tampere-based decision-maker, was also very embarrassed when I listened to this debate: no one is going to find out what this is about. Mr Kankaanniemi did talk a lot, but I did not hear him answer Mr Heinäluoma's question as to whether he could perhaps discuss it with Mr Halla-aho, the chairman of the Finns. And, President, it occurred to me here that when no one finds out about this juggling performance, could the Finns of Finland invite their own chairmen, for example, to the meetings of your parliamentary group, to find out a little bit about your position. I think it would be very interesting to know, perhaps you will shed some light on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u71	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u95	Mr President! This joint position of the parties was an important document. Its idea was to give prospects for a longer period of time, to give signals to various actors in society about the direction in which parties across the government-opposition line want energy and climate solutions to be carried out. Regrettably, the Finns of Peru immediately dropped out of it, and after that the debate has progressed, there will be an increasing question mark of what the parties ultimately agreed on. However, this requirement to look further so that all actors have time to adapt and make sound investment decisions, small and large, is necessary. I myself argued in 2006 that Finland would set a target for abandoning the use of oil by 2030. Well, that didn't result in much discussion. There was distressed silence, and not much was done, and certainly not enough was done. Today, everyone is talking about this, but the time unit that remains is even shorter. In other words, it is justified to apply for a big guideline, as was done in this joint declaration of parties, but it is equally important that, when the parties agree, they also commit themselves to what they agree together. If this debate is alive all the time, then the ordinary operator, whether he is making investment decisions in the energy company or in the purchase of cars, is quite confused. It has not been a very long time since it was said that the alternative to diesel is better for the environment, and it was considered a very good performance. But now it is said that it is the worst thing that should actually not be used at all — petrol has been known all along that emissions are coming. But then we should move on to electric cars — well, we're not going to do that once and for all. In Diesel, too, it must be remembered that new diesel cars with new standards are in a completely different category than they were for emissions made five years ago, in relation to these CO2 emissions very close to zero. In other words, I believe that this whole survey should be restored to whether we have the capacity to reach long-term agreement across government-oppositional borders. It is absolutely necessary for sensible decisions to be taken in Finland and not for new energy plants to be built and done on the basis of current information and tomorrow there will be a new group who will say that that was all in the forest and now you will be making all new ones. This is linked to the use of all these fuels, because there is no easy way for renewables and non-emission renewables as a whole. There are only different kinds of sheds,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u96	Mr President! As I said at the first reading of the bill, the bill is necessary and welcome. It gives hard coal a clear "best before" date, and it also sends an important international message. Coal is also being driven elsewhere, and there is a demand for alternatives worldwide. It is clear that coal should not be replaced by peat, which is equally polluting, and that coal should preferably be replaced by new energy systems based on non-combustion, as also stated in the committee's report. The replacement or cessation of coal use alone does not reduce emissions alone; instead, it must be replaced by low-emission production and the allowances released must be cancelled. This issue was already discussed and voted on in the context of the reform of the Emissions Trading Act. Mr President! The statements made by Mr Hassi do not contradict a good report. Of course, for hygiene reasons it would have been justified and it would have been good if they had already arrived in committee, but the content itself is good. Mr President! As someone has already said and perhaps corrected the point of view of the debate, coal can still be stored as a fuel of security of supply, in that sense there is no concern for exceptional situations. It can be considered as a reserve of security of supply fuel. Mr President! More broadly, it would be important for emission control through taxation and emissions trading to be sufficiently achieved with a high carbon price and a sufficient proportion of allowances available in relation to emission reduction needs and timetables. This does not necessarily mean that we need separate annual fuel bans, which at worst do not reduce emissions if they are replaced by another polluting fuel. In other words, the primary focus should be on the price of allowances, emissions taxation, the correction of emissions trading. Of course, absolute ban dates can be imposed, but, as has been said, they do not take us on a sufficient and sufficiently rapid emission reduction path if the overall control is not in order. Mr President! The conversation that's been going on here about the turf. It is clear that the best-before date for the use of peat will then come after coal, and it will certainly be ahead in the 2030s if we really want to get there,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u97	Mr President! I think about 20% of our export revenue is coming from wood, or a fifth. Now, if this model is realized, as is good, that fossil fuels are being tackled off — and probably even peat is there on the list of sins — then it may lead to more burning wood. Of course it can be imported from Russia, if that is what it is intended to be imported. I personally agree with what Mr Modig said here that it might be in front of us if we go very strictly at national level to restrict the use of fuels, that biomass is also imported by sea, both from Russia and by sea. How much this increase in imports is intentional, I do not know, but my own view is, and Mr Heinäluoma also pointed out that we must strive for better and cleaner energy systems, but nevertheless note that everything in real life does not necessarily go as it does in political decision-making. They are great things, these geothermal heats and demand forces, but when you start driving them really in every province and in all the cities where heat and electricity are produced in joint power plants, it may not be possible, and that is why you should speak about this. It is particularly good that there is a condition for coal, but I want the peat industry to be given some value, because if we are actually going to send a message to the peat producers and there to the machinery companies that there is no need for peat, it may lead to a significant increase in the price of district heat. Who here wants that significant price increase? Generally speaking, it is very rare for us to want to have many fuels that compete at the price and which can be slightly compared, to what extent what is being used, for the producer to want to reduce the range of fuels. That's what this is all about. No one here thinks peat is as environmentally friendly as it is, but when peat is needed — In Kuopio, it is currently used in 40-45% of district heat business — so more attention must be paid to the measures that are being taken in peat production and how they are being reduced and how they can be managed in some way to ensure that the environment is not so heavily burdened. So, in my opinion, Vapo has done a good job in this regard and should not overpaint peat. However, it is a domestic fuel, and from all these chains that relate to peat, that money remains in the provinces. That's how I'd go my feet on the ground. Let us take this objective forward and far away, but we cannot change the realism of combustion plants by political decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u98	Mr President! The objective of ending fossil fuels is to be welcomed and welcomed. Replacing coal with cleaner fuels is a very serious challenge, but I believe that we have enough technology to do that. When some of the peat has been discussed here this evening, I will say my own position on it. When natural values have already been destroyed in the swamp, it is worth peeling away this energy - rich peat and then planting wood that will become carbon sinks in the future. If it is left the way it is, then it is an issue from the point of view, which is, as with global warming, a worse thing to leave behind. The transition to these new fuels is to be welcomed, especially wood-based fuels, in the sense that when the wood is cut down we have many different fractions. Firstly, this block, which, of course, can be used as material by the construction industry and other industries anywhere, is suitable for everything. It is about half, between 35% and 60%, usually cut out of that tree, and the coal remains in it, and it does not leave. So it's a kind of carbon storage, and that's a good thing about this, of course. Secondly, there is this fibre component, which is currently mainly made of cellulose, but we have a lot of good models currently making anything else out of that cellulose, the closest being materials in the textile industry, where it will continue to be stored for at least some time before it becomes energy. And then this remainder, which is there, sawdust, sawdust and all the other fractions that are there, should then be used as energy, because in any case it rots and decomposes and produces the same emission as by burning it. So here I just wanted to say that it makes sense to move on to at least a tree and then to these renewable fuels. I am certainly not against, for example, solar energy or wind energy, not to mention nuclear power.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u99	Mr President! It is very nice to continue after Mr Suutari has spoken, because I agree with him on these points. I think we have some information about these things as well. The use of peat is decreasing all the time, and it is also intended to decrease all the time. We are all aware that there are cleaner methods of producing energy, and that is what we must always strive for, of course. According to our information, peat is currently available, releases coal as much and is as much environmentally polluting as coal, and because of that, if the alternatives are coal and peat, neither is good, but if either one is to be taken, then of course peat. Is peat a renewable energy form or not? By the way, it is the result of the vote that it is a non-renewable form of energy, that it is a fossil fuel. [Riitta Myller’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u100	Mr President! In addition to what has been said about this report, I would just like to say that our current energy and climate strategy requires an update on the basis of these latest information and challenges. It is probably big questions for the next government and government programme, but there are a lot of new needs to reflect on that policy — which in itself is quite fresh and still sustainable. Secondly, the challenges facing our climate policy lie above all in construction, transport and industry. In fact, in electricity production we are now 80% in pure production, and when Olkiluoto is completed 90%. In electricity production, these challenges are not the same as in construction, transport and industry. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have 190,000 households dependent on oil heating. Often they are low - income people, grandmothers, quartets, whose homes are warmed with oil. When we also need to change new sources of energy or ways, it obviously requires a programme and such social support as social support, so that these households can move on to new forms of energy, away from oil, and perhaps this too should be taken into account in our debate. Then I conclude that this report by the Committee on Economic Affairs included a statement that it supports this common approach of the eight parties on energy, climate objectives and emissions trading issues. It's already inside.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u101	Mr President! Mr Ihalainen is absolutely right that the current medium-term climate strategy for Finland needs to be updated, inter alia, because last autumn an IPCC report appeared which shows that the difference between the damage caused by 1.5 degrees of climate change and 2 degrees of climate change is really great between these two options. In other words, it is important for Finland to do its part to curb climate change to 1.5 degrees. But I would like to point out here the fact that in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection it has been pointed out in a number of expert consultations and probably in many other committees on the industrial side that the time span for investment is long: it takes many years to plan an investment and then to make the decision to build it, and then the assumption is that it will be in use for a long time. It is therefore important that political decisions have been taken in time to guide energy production investment in cleaner alternatives. The later we delay the moment when we make it clear that the energy use of peat must also be abandoned, the more difficult it will be for us to make decisions for all those who are currently using peat. I have already referred to the Smart Energy Transition project, the Aalto University project, as an illustration of how district heat in Helsinki could function without coal. In fact, large heat pumps, the utilisation of various waste heat, solar heat and heat storage are the main components, and only then would biomass combustion be used as a backup power source. Similar solutions are useful in all locations where district heat is produced. And from the point of view of all such district heating sites, including my own home town of Tampere, this is quite relevant, as Mr Eestilä pointed out, that if, now, the abandonment of coal causes a great deal of biomass burning, it could cause, among other things, damage to the use of wood by industry. This is one of the reasons why we in the production of district heat not only in the cities where coal is being burned, but also in the cities where we are investing in solutions based on non-incineration. These are good examples of things where Finnish expertise and Finnish solutions can then be good export products for the whole world.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u102	Madam President! Yes, the fact that peat is as polluting as coal, we also need to get rid of peat. And the question is precisely that we currently have energy companies which are considering what the next investment is to which they are relying. We have energy companies that are currently considering an investment that would be a peat boiler, and this kind of investment life cycle is between 20 and 30 years, and if this kind of investment is now made, so it means that still in the 40s to 50s would be burning peat, even though we are committed to being carbon-negative in the 40s and in electricity and heat production almost zero emissions by the end of the 2030s. This is the reason why it would be important for Parliament to send the message that the direction we are going is that peat is being abandoned. This is also fair to these players in the sector. And the big question why we are discussing this is, of course, that we have a big problem and a challenge ahead of us, climate change — a problem that we cannot fail to solve. The objective of 1.5°C requires us to take a clear path towards carbon negativity, and that is not possible unless we at the same time strengthen the carbon sink of forests and soils. This does not mean that forests should not be used, but the use of forests must also be measured at a climate-sustainable level, not only at a sustainable level. Minister Tiilikainen himself has said on several occasions that the felling rates imposed by the current policy mean that the sinks are shrinking but sometimes return to normal around the 1950s. He has repeated this many times. Scientists agree on this. This is the formula that will come true. The problem — what scientists and I disagree with Tiilikainen — is that we do not have that time span. Our time span to make decisions that will lead us to carbon negative in the 40s will not allow us to wait until the middle of the century for the sink to return to normal. And even in that retraction, you have to remember that it leaves a permanent gap in storage, the warehouse will remain at a lower level in the 1950s than it would have been if it was not temporarily lowered. We have a time span to make these decisions very, very short, for 10 to 15 years at maximum. That is why we cannot afford this reduction in the sink to which the current policy is leading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u103	Madam President! It is good to continue with this previous speech, because the counter-question, of course, is how it will be done if it is not done in the direction in which, for example, the centre has now brought this law on the prohibition of coal here. When we use Finnish forests, we do not use them for the needs of the energy industry, we use them for the needs of the forest industry, to replace fossil sources, in whatever different forms they are. When wooden blocks are built, new export products are made, then fossils are replaced from the side streams and residues that would in any case be there in the yard of the sawmill. We do not want those piles of chewing gum to be left in the air. In this respect, it is very important that this law on the prohibition of coal has now finally entered this Chamber. Of course, many of the municipalities in Finland have already taken care of this matter. Unfortunately, we have had a few cities, who have been struggling with this reality for a long time now, and it is not, of course, flattering that one of these cities is our capital when negotiations are taking place on Nordic airports and it is said why it has taken so long in Finland and Helsinki. In Stockholm, which is located just the same way on the coast, this has been taken care of a long time ago, and I am glad that it will now be done with this law in the Finnish capital as well. Of course, it is important that we have a very broad parliamentary consensus on these climate issues, and this was sought during the last parliamentary term, for example, when there was a parliamentary Committee on Climate and Energy, which also went through the order in which it would make sense for us to abandon the various sources of fossil emissions. It is quite clear to me that, in keeping with the outcome of its parliamentary work, the most sensible thing is to give up foreign polluting fossil fuel sources first and then come to those domestic sources. However, the uniqueness that Finland has had in relation to our northern, Arctic, cold location is, of course, a highly developed, energy-efficient system related to CHP plants and the district heating network. If such district heating systems existed in Central Europe or elsewhere in cold, northern regions, North America or Russia in the same latitude as we do, there would be no need to use fossil fuels. And here we come to the potential of energy exports, the export of renewable energy opportunities, what Finland has, cold technology and how, at the same time, we can get rid of fossil fuels and make this country also a very big business that is useful and helpful to our economy, but above all, of course, to our common climate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u104	And the reply, Mr Modig.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, Mr Kulmuni, about the means you are calling for, we have just spoken for an hour. I am saving others now because I am not going to repeat this debate, which has been on the knee and in which good speeches have been made. All I am telling you is that what we have discussed here is that coal cannot be replaced entirely by biomass, because simply that biomass is not enough, and we have discussed the need for a systemic change in our energy system. It is not enough for us to incinerate this system by burning another substance, but we must get rid of it completely. And, among other things, you referred, I understood between the lines, including Helsinki, where there are shamefully still piles of coal, but that is what we are thinking here too, that our energy company does not see as the best possible way to move on to burning biomass, but we would like to go straight ahead towards that solution, towards those genuinely renewable solutions. That is what we have been discussing here for the last hour, Mr Kulmun.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u106	Let us go to the list of speakers because those who have asked for an answer are also going to make a real speech. Since we are closing at 5:00 p.m., we will have to remove quite a few points from the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u107	Madam President! When this IPCC report came in, all parties joined this climate club. Let's go back a little bit in history: there was an energy crisis in the '70s. At that time everyone talked about the end of the oil, and in their distress they exchanged oil heaters for electric heating and so on. This is a similar phenomenon coming up now. After this report, everyone went to the point that now this poor earth will be destroyed. We Finns are the least guilty of it with our emissions. Then there was the good speech made by Heinäluoma about the fact that diesel cars are, at the moment, the latest, almost emission-free. If you consider what the Social Democrats have said, that 2035 will be electrified by this car, then by then diesel cars will probably be emission-free, and they will be, and that diesel will certainly have been produced here in large part by domestic power. For example, Neste currently produces quite a lot of renewable diesel from its production. So you don't want to go after a report like that. Well, of course I understand that the election is coming and they want votes, but put your mind to this. We do not have product development in Finland, for example, for cars, but in Central Europe it exists, and there goes ahead, and we need to make legislation after we start to create such products that are useful here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u108	Madam President! As far as this proposal and the phasing out of coal is concerned, it must have been quite clear throughout the 21st century that coal is the kind of fuel that will be abandoned on a large scale. It is good that the government has now brought it, and that too has been the subject of a very good report in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and we have fully supported it. But here Mr Modig — already left the hall — and the others referred above to this forest use and forest use level in Finland. He clearly suggested that the level of fellings should be reduced and that they are not sufficiently high in Finland. Well, this debate is about a political decision, it is about a political sinkhole. In reality, if in Finland, in some way — no one has yet taken a position on what would be the means — forest use would be reduced, fellings would be limited, it is quite clear that imports of wood from abroad would increase. I listened to this debate in the study, and that is what Mr Eestilä referred to earlier. So in 2018, last year, 9 million cubic metres of wood were imported to Finland mainly from Russia for processing. In 2007, a peak year, 21 million cubic metres were imported. It is quite clear that if we were to have a significant restriction on the use of forests, this would only have an impact outside Finland's borders, but this is not taken into account, given that we are constantly discussing the sink count in the EU's land use sector, which does not take into account at all the impact it has on the carbon sinks and, above all, carbon stocks in Russia, where there are very many old forests. Well, as far as peat combustion and peat use are concerned, it is quite clear already that emissions trading will cost the use of peat as if out of energy use in the long term. And I have the impression that big peat users, such as Vapo, already have the impression that this energy use will very quickly end in the next two decades, and other uses will then be planned for them. I do have the impression that these current policy measures are already coming to this conclusion.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u109	Mr President! Finland is the next EU Presidency, and it is really important that Finland is an example of many things and models. We will certainly be able to steer the energy and climate strategy at EU level during the next Presidency. So we really must work hard on it. The environment is important to us all, and the most important thing in today's debate, which we have listened to, was that we should already provide the schools with information about our nature, quite simply information about forest growth, what forest and nature are and how carbon actually circulates around the environment and nature, and that carbon emissions are always there. It is clear that as long as there is life, there will be carbon emissions, but what is essential is how we can also tie up coal and how we can achieve a carbon-neutral balance here as a whole. The most important thing is that we grow forests and we grow green in the fields and we continue to study how coal can be tied to the ground in future. It is likely that in 50 years’ time we will be ridiculed that you did not then realize what actually binds carbon. We live on the basis of current know-how, and hopefully in the future we will know much more. But we have land everywhere, we have forest, and we have much more in gardens and everywhere else than we can imagine. The incredible information was that some people in the last few days were even suggesting that shrubs should be increased. However, hedges and bushes only cause carbon emissions, which means that if you have such a common bush, it quickly decomposes and then releases all carbon into the air. Indeed, we need to increase the growth of our forests and develop the right kind of forest growth, so that we can tie it up with coal in its entirety for a long time. Finally, I am thinking about this issue of electricity in Finland: Finland buys 20 per cent of electricity from abroad, as I remember, so we need to develop more and more of these own energy production issues. There should be electric cars everywhere in the future, but today's development will not make this work if we do not get domestic production increased and developed in the right way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u110	Madam President! I think we all have the objective of cleaner air and less fine particulate matter, and it is probably essential here in Helsinki that those diesel buses should be converted into electric buses as quickly as possible. Yes, it is a climate and eco-device. For that Finnish combined heat and power production: Its efficiency is well over 90% and has been regarded as excellent innovation in the world. I agree that we must seek new geothermal forms to form heat, but, Mr Hassi, as long as there is no real alternative to peat, for example, how it actually happens in those provinces where peat and wood currently form basic fuels for the production of heat and electricity, there is this uncertainty about how it will be replaced. It is not replaced by the fact that it is being said that it is being replaced by something. Another thing, of course, which is a risk in terms of export in Finland and the use of wood and the formation of gross domestic product, is that if we ourselves voluntarily tackle fuels away and use only wood and lean on wood, then these plants will be able to technically do that, but at the same time, if we are politically determined to reduce fellings and then less biomass starts to come out, then I will only estimate what the price of that district heat will be then for customers who are already in pain with these bills today. That some sort of price scenario and realism should be. I also think that if we take the wrong line and give these various actors the wrong signal, so that they put their whistles in a bag, it will reduce Finnish work and at worst lead to an increase in imports of wood from Russia and an increase in imports of different biomasses from the world to Finland, and our current account will not improve. The objectives are good, but the realism of its economy and technological realism, all of them, must go hand in hand at the same time. With good words alone, this world will not change.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u111	Madam President! I listened to some of this conversation on the screen in my office and I thought I might say a few thoughts. There have been good speeches here, but I would like to see a little more realistic. First of all, I have been given the impression from this debate that everything has gone to the wall and especially during the current regime. Let's take a look at the facts. Since the wars, the number of Finnish trees has more than doubled, and so has the carbon sink, i.e. the growth of wood, has more than doubled. So we're heading in the right direction. The number of trees is growing all the time. This year, too, the total volume of fellings is likely to remain somewhere around 78 to 80 million mots, the total removal — it takes into account the need for domestic trees, natural removals and so on. The growth is 110 million, i.e. 30 million mots remain in the forests with more wood, which means that the carbon sink is growing all the time. What you opponents are saying about a reduction in the carbon sink is nonsense. What do you not believe in in the long statistics of the Finnish Forest Research Institute, Luke? They last daylight at any time: over a hundred years of Finnish forest research at the top level. At least believe the numbers. You have every right to your own opinions, but not to your own truths. That's probably what we all learned. Second thing. When you look at emissions, total emissions, Finland's total emissions have halved since 1990 — last year too, it was 5.7 per cent, I think it was an exact figure, but it was still good 5. So the total emissions are falling all the time, and you are always giving the impression that everything is going in the wrong direction. Fortunately, this is not the case. Then there's one thing. If we're going to say no now... You justify, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, how difficult it is to give up coal. The decision-makers of the City of Helsinki and the cities of Southern Finland, take an excursion in Stockholm. There you can learn how a million cities do the heating of their own city without any prospect of coal. We must not give up coal, nor any form of energy, by leaving the land open and by not knowing what we are doing. Of course, if we go out and do it, the market will immediately realize that when you have to buy that tree, then the price will be set so that it is quite inconceivable. Are you, ladies and gentlemen of Helsinki or the decision-makers in South Finland, prepared to pay hugely expensive rents in your rentals, when even today there are complaints, how expensive they are? I don't think it's a good idea to do anything. Let's drive forward peacefully with our own Finnish options. Let us continue to burn the amount of wood we burn, wood of little value. To reduce the number of forests, to develop the forest industry, which will increase this famous CHP power. So we don't have to make the wrong decisions. We make the right decisions on the Finnish basis. Even in the years to come, we certainly need peat as a mixture of wood. When low - value wood is burned, it means that peat must be included, that the tree must be burned when there is even such a verse that does not burn properly. — If the President will allow me, I will continue for a moment from the podium. [ The speaker moves to the podium] Mr President! More than that, if we go out and turn off these coal boilers like by clicking on fingers, it is a terrible mistake. There is nowhere to find the wood or the biomass that could heat such a city just like that. That's not possible. Even a city like this needs to make sure that people’s homes stay warm, and more than a million people’s homes warm today with blended fuel, wood and peat. I understand, ladies and gentlemen of the capital region, that you have this kind of innate anger born into peat. It is because it is an overwhelming fuel in Finland, and it must be denied that it would be a little more difficult in rural areas. Would that be it? I bet it is. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we must think with the Finnish brain. Why do we attack some of the people because you burn coal today? You want to put an end to the fact that the alloy fuel is not working. We burn sawdust, wet bark, various patching blocks, sawdust, very poor quality wood that is wet. It necessarily needs to be used as a friend of the peat of a float boiler to burn well, completely cleanly produce electricity and heat for people’s homes, plants and industrial process gas as steam, which is also needed a lot — for example, the forest industry needs, as well as many other industries. These are what we need, but here we are talking about whether we can shut this one down and stop using peat. There's no such thing as a bad thing to do, except if it's stopped once and for all. Then how do we handle security of supply? Look around you honourable Members of Parliament what is happening in the world. Uncertainty increases like crazy and sabers are rattled everywhere. Does anyone still think today in this house that it would not lead to difficulties in the energy market? On the day when a crisis starts, it certainly affects energy supplies, and in that situation we are in Finland with our own production sources closed down. I am tired of understanding this kind of conjugal thinking, which is aimed at the narrow pursuit of self-interest or of some small group of people, or even the so-called nature conservation, which is not at all the case here. If it were a question of nature conservation, what is the guarantee that Helsinki will continue to burn coal, since it is not compulsory in Stockholm? Stockholm manages its work in style, and Finnish Fortum invests state money to warm up homes in Stockholm, so that the biopans can be well there. I wonder what is wrong with our system when Finnish companies invest there in Stockholm and not in Finland? Mr Myller seems a little disgusted, but I understand that this is going to hurt you when you have been there in the EU making these decisions. But I would like you to understand that this is where we have to move forward. It's not gonna help if... [Riitta Myller’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u112	All right, three minutes from there and four minutes from here is seven. — Next, Mr Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u113	Mr President! In this previous speech it was not quite clear whether the previous speaker was in favour of the government's proposal or not.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u116	Madam President! To this carbon sink thing. After all, these recent discussions have not taken into account the impact of changes in the way we use forests on carbon sinks, and so has this debate, which we have had here in the Chamber. If we were to go down the road to a significant reduction in the level of felling in Finland, there is a risk that our forests will begin to run down, so to speak, in the same way as Luke said they had done in Canada. The situation in Canada is that although the forest area is significantly larger than Finland, Finland’s carbon sink is in fact larger than Canada’s carbon sink due to the fact that there are such significant forest damage due to the limited use of forests, the large number of old forests. Compared to Finnish or Swedish well-managed economic forests, they are considerably more susceptible to various pests and are significantly more susceptible to forest fires as a result, which causes the carbon sink to suffer significantly from these damage because these forests simply burn up in smoke. This point of view has been forgotten recently in this discussion on carbon sinks, the use of forests. At the end of the day, I would like to point out that I think that Mr Ihalainen has made a very good speech here, in which he said that in this energy policy and also in relation to the use of forests, the parties must be able to find a common political consensus on the direction in which our climate and energy policy as a whole is being taken. I do indeed agree that such an agreement should be found, because I believe that there is a balance in the way in which we can continue to use forests, but in such a way that we are more balanced in terms of biodiversity and these climate aspects, without then leading to a felling leak into other countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u117	Mr President! In these discussions on forest and carbon sinks, many things easily go crazy, such as the volume and growth of commercially exploitable wood and then carbon sink. The carbon sink also contains a carbon sink in the soil. What Mr Honkonen said is that forest management should be done in such a way that forest fires do not easily start to break out and spread, is certainly true. But, on the other hand, the expert knowledge that has been given to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection also makes it clear that it is not true that reducing fellings will somehow lead to a reduction in the carbon sink. Such an opportunity is perhaps a hundred years away, and yet, when we talk about forestry policy and carbon sinks, what will happen in the next few decades is essential. If we now act in such a way as to reduce carbon sinks, it will not help to control climate change if those carbon sinks then start to grow again later, and quite similarly, if we now make the choice of cutting down some of the fellings in order to increase the carbon sinks, then perhaps this would reduce carbon sinks sometime in the next century. These things are complicated, but it would be very nice if the debates in the plenary session of Parliament did not simplify the message of experts and researchers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u118	Mr President! Finland lives from forests, and forests are our green gold. As far as I understand it, no one has proposed, either in this climate debate or in general when it comes to the importance of carbon sinks in forests, that forest use should be stopped or that forest management should no longer be carried out. Yes, we know that Finnish forest management has its merits, and in particular that we always have a statutory obligation to plant new plants after harvesting, is a very good thing, but of course it is how to deal with those forests. We also know that the round of fellings has been reduced, and even if we beat our forests ten years older than what we are doing now, it would be of great importance where our carbon sinks will stand. When we think about these decades in particular, that is the most critical thing that we can do to combat climate change or to keep it at 1.5 to 2 degrees. We also know that, now that this issue has been investigated, there will be different research results and, therefore, with the precautionary principle in mind, it would be appropriate to ensure that we do not increase the fellings now, but rather reduce them a little bit now from where they are going this year — to 80 million cubic metres, apparently — rising. And then, if we look at other effects than the climate effects of forests alone, the diversity effects are extremely great. We know that three quarters of our forest types are endangered. We also know that the recreational use of forests is of great value. Forests have a lot of health effects, people want to move around the forests. Due to increased fellings, we have also had a lot of local disputes about the fact that Metsähallitus, for example, has beaten up areas that local people have experienced as very important recreational areas. These are the reasons why when you consider the amount of logging, it cannot be viewed from a purely wood - producing perspective. The climate perspective, the diversity perspective and the social impact must always be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u119	Madam President! These green left theories — I have considered that they have not yet worked in any part of the world. They are thrown around and given estimates, but they do not work anywhere, at least they have not yet worked. Maybe they'll start working here sometime. And then to that one and a half degrees. It doesn't matter if we sweep this country off that map, it doesn't affect it to 1.5 degrees. They're just one of those things around here, you get to play political stuff. Then to the growth of the forest. If we now have forests growing by nearly 30 percent more than they are used for, then the carbon sink will grow, we will get more of that carbon sink. Let me give you an example of the use of forests: I remember when I was a kid when there was an open felling next door. In the other year, open felling was repeated. That forest had been managed, and there was a significant share of the log in that end felling. How can it be that when there was this kind of carbon sink, which was a huge carbon sink, so probably it will now become a new carbon sink? And that's not the end of it. And then, finally, such a thing that probably the recession will also come here —at least with a hard-on like that. Then the natural use of the forest will be reduced, so there is no need to fear that it will now be destroyed. In fact, during the recession, it is used less. When it comes to the rising season, it'll be used more. But the sequence on the long run is always such that the carbon sink grows.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u120	Madam President! After all, this debate is going to extend to the current debate on forestry policy and to the wider use of energy, even though the original proposal is, of course, linked to this ban on coal. Of course, there are some connections. But it is also a reminder that it is really significant that Finland is able to make such legislation among the first countries in the world and, in fact, in this period, for example, last week in this Chamber to discuss the obligation to mix biofuels and to trip it. These are, after all, legislative issues that will have an impact on the reduction in our emissions as soon as we switch cars, for example, for gas or biofuels. Of course, it is also very important to have a broader energy policy debate. What I referred to earlier in my speech relates to the Finnish, efficient system we have had for CHP plants and district heating networks. In Finland, however, in these Arctic and northern latitudes, energy efficiency is very good — of course, there is always something that can still be done — compared to many Central European cities where there are no similar solutions at all, and they are mainly housing-specific heating systems. Then, of course, it is important to remember what will be done with those products if a tree leaves the forest. The tree does not go to one place, but, as has been said earlier in the speeches, it goes to several different destinations: They turn it into houses, they turn it into furniture, they turn it into whatever's in the sawmill's repertoire. Then there will always be some kind of side streams, tops of branches that cannot be made into an apartment building or furniture. It makes sense that these side streams can also be used from that tree, because they would likewise leave emissions in our atmosphere if they were left molding in the yards of the sawmills. That is why it is important that we have a sustainable use of biomass, for example. And hopefully the capital of Finland will now move away from coal with this legislation and could have been inspired decades ago by its neighbouring country, Stockholm, which has been warming up with biomass for quite a long time. When there was a debate here, which was also related to the part of the left-wing parties that had to limit the use of forests, then just this kind of technical question: are you going to use private forests or whose forests are you going to restrict? However, we have agreed here together on what the revenue target of Metsähallitus is. And we must remember that the Prime Minister, for example, said this week that it could well be revised, for example, in the policy at what prices Metsähallitus sells real estate in Northern Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u121	Mr President! Mr Hassi and Mr Mikkonen wanted to reduce the fellings here, and although Mr Hassi talked about the fact that when big decisions are made in the industry, there will be difficulties for someone, I would like to bring my own point of view here. For example, if we reduce fellings, this will mean that processing units need to be reduced, because very rarely will these processing units be designed in such a way as to reduce their own operations. This is, of course, market-driven, because we cannot decide in this Chamber that this unit over there will cease its activities and that this unit will have to function through adjustment — that is to say, bankruptcy or other mismanagement. In other words, we would deliberately drive the breeding units in Finland to the Mierontie. This is not really the case in reality, but I am simply proposing an alternative to what could happen if we do this radically. Then I will take the example of Kainuu, who ran out of UPM's forest processing unit in 2009, or in 2008 it was decided. What happened then? The price of fibre fell from EUR 20 to around EUR 3-7. This was because the transport journeys increased from about 150 km to 350 km, and the transport cost is EUR 7 per motti. Only that factory price will be paid in the market economy, which is why our price fell and our fellings fell by half. Only Metsähallitus, which has 40% of our forests, continued its own activities, albeit with smaller margins. It also meant that forest waste was growing. It was calculated that a private person is not worth and cannot afford to take care of, because there is little to be gained from that tree. In other words, there are real difficulties here, as Mr Hassi said, because if we make some decisions, then we will have to think about what the consequences will be, and these consequences will be in those provinces. Then there was talk of endangered species and caring for them. I myself believe that they should be taken care of. I myself have forests, and I myself have voluntarily protected areas in the forest, and I support them. According to Luke, we have protected 12 per cent in Finland, and I would like this to increase voluntarily, but it is certainly not up to them to limit felling.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u122	At this point, I already say that it seems that we are removing things from the list of 7, 9, 10, 15 and 16. This is just for those of you who may be just waiting for them here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u123	Mr President! I just wanted to point out in my previous speech that Luke’s research results indicate that the high number of old forests exposes more and more forest damage as climate change progresses. I understand that this is an indisputable scientific fact, and it is already visible in a certain part of the world as the destruction of the forest that is taking place there. In itself, what was said above, that we are getting more early in logging, is justifiable concern, and if we look at the matter from a purely economic point of view, it is not good for that either, because then the profit from the forest owner will also be lower. In other words, a steering mechanism should be found to guide the use of wood in such a way as to make the wood used more robust, to cut more robustly. But in this background. In practice, this current carbon sink level in our forests is thanks to the fact that we have managed the forest well in the past decades. In the 1950s, when we practically started this open-cut method of forest management, we had very small carbon sinks. It was then that this so-called continuous farming method was under control, and since then we have seen the number of large trees in our forests almost tripled, that is, in 60 years, when this method of forest management has changed. This fact too should be remembered when considering the carbon stock in the forests at the moment. Well, the second thing I have not heard in this debate or in the past is that, I repeat, the risk of felling is increasing. In other words, if we in Finland take measures, if we look only at forestry activities within our borders, the use of forests, and if it is to be substantially reduced, it is quite clear that imports of wood from Russia will increase. Now VR is reporting today that they are investing in transport equipment so that Russian timber imports can be increased. What effect will it have on this climate? However, as I understand it, the global climate is common — I may now sound a little populist, let it be forgiven me — that is, if it is common, then what do we care about these borders of our nation states in this situation when, however, they have the same effects if they simply move away from Finland, and at the same time we also lose its economic benefits, what is there to be gained from this?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u124	Mr President! Once again, there are the various arguments that have been raised here over the months about this restriction on forest use and other use of wood and what any party thinks about these issues. I would like to continue to remind you that we have this common position of the eight parliamentary parties, which assumes that in the 2040s our carbon emissions must be clearly negative, and that must be the guiding principle by which we deal, for example, with the information we get about forest development, forest growth, how we use wood products and what we use wood for. So the question is how to make these carbon sinks of forests work in the best possible way and, of course, how much depends on how much we can use forests for different good purposes. There is no direct comparison between the forests of Canada and Finland. We have also received information on this in the Committee on the Environment. They are very different, and in Canada there is indeed much less use of forests. In other words, the Finnish forests cannot be compared with them in that way, and in this respect too, I think it would be good for us to internalise the knowledge of researchers and also to use it when we take these decisions. All in all, I think it is important that we in this Parliament have also achieved good cooperation in the field of climate protection and the prevention of warming. As Finns, we must be pioneers. It also gives us opportunities to create jobs, but it also gives us the opportunity to use our voice in international fields, and that is what we must hold onto. I believe that having a common view of things will give a greater voice.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u125	Mr President! There must have been all the wisdom said here, but when it was said that 2040 should be a minus sign of coal too, then I would say that these guidelines have been made in Parliament: for example, social welfare has been recruited for over a decade and it has not become anything, new policies have always been made. This proposal is now talking about the end of coal alone, but in this context we should all talk about the future of the Finnish energy industry. And it says here that the use of forests should be reduced a lot — well, then it will be imported from Russia. Now the coal will be stopped in just over ten years, then the next is the peat. So if we had a little common sense thinking, then we must now go according to the situation and not make such years. As a person living in the wilderness of the countryside, I often wonder when it is 30 degrees in winter, that if, for example, we put the electric faucets on in some direction, we should get cold. In other words, we must use all these forms of energy, and we cannot say that it will end then and it will end then. And then one big thing is that when you are in this insecure situation about security of supply, if you put everything on hold, then surely every single Member of Parliament will say something else. And when it comes to peat, Finland has one third of the soil peat, and peat grows much more than what it is used for. Peat is not just for burning, but it must also be remembered that there are very few different studies on peat for which uses it can be used. Peat, for example, has good mold tolerance, can be used on different fibers and everything, so we should not put everything on now, but should think about what is best for Finland. That we have done this climate change here in our own country, and I think we are in the vanguard, but let's go with reason, not just with that number always trusting and talking about these sinks and the others.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u126	Madam President! The Finnish forest industry infrastructure has been built over the decades and the assumption is that we use almost the growth that the forest grows. And it is far from being used: last year, I believe, it was 77 million cubic metres and an annual increase of perhaps 107 million cubic metres. Luke estimates that good forest management — new seedlings whose growth potential may be 20-30% higher than the previous ones — may reach an annual growth of up to 150 million cubic metres. It would somehow be wrong to leave in this situation, where our exports are well-run and the forest industry accounts for about 20% of our exports, to drive down our fellings — because there is a completely different future in sight. And if we look back on history for 50 years — as has already been said here — then this forest area, in a way the volume of trees, has grown by more than 60% in 50 years. So Finland has done the right thing: it has cut down forests, managed forests quite correctly. There are a number of problems — which affect the drainage of peatland forests, which has put a strain on water bodies — that must be acknowledged. These must be taken more into account in the future, but I believe that the big forestry policy line must be the same as it has been so far. Because if we were to go ahead with radical changes — as it has been proposed for climate reasons — it would weaken our industry's operating conditions and also cause the willingness to invest in new forest-based combustible plants to cease to exist. So I think we need to beat up more, however, so that the forest is managed better than it has been until now, and we have to pay for it. Then we get to a situation where the economy wins, the climate wins, and the Finnish economy wins.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u127	Mr President! Finland is definitely the number one country in forest management. We know and know forest management and forestry better than anywhere else in the world. Is the tree enough? This issue has been dealt with very much recently. We are working on major investments in forestry in the north. Plans are on the move. We've had a lot of discussions, we've been trying to figure out if the tree is gonna be good enough. At least I am absolutely convinced that there will be plenty of wood. And the plans for the woodworking sector that are under construction there are mainly for pulp, fibre wood. They will enable us to develop our forests in a way that allows us to clear, thin out the forests. We will then allow the sawn wood to grow better, after which the carbon sinks will only increase, so we will certainly have enough wood. In 2040, our carbon emissions should be negative. In this Chamber, on the basis of the contributions from the centre, it has been asked whether it will be possible. Yes, it is indeed the intention that it should succeed, and that is what we are trying to do. As far as all the speeches we have made here are concerned, they will certainly help us achieve that objective. We on the agricultural and forest sides are climate heroes. Let's raise our hat, be proud of what we have done in Finland and for the global climate. We are examples to the whole world by our actions. Let us not give up, let us do our best, let us take advantage of the relevant research data and act accordingly. Santeri Alkio once said that leave the land to the children in a better condition than where you received it, and we will try to do so. It has been pointed out in this Chamber that deforestation reduces carbon sequestration, but according to research data, 20 years after a particular site is being cut, it binds coal at least as much as before. So, without a doubt, we have to hack to get those carbon bonds back on track. How, then, can we increase this area of carbon sequestration in forests? In Lapland, for example, the regeneration of underproductive forests could be increased, non-productive fields could be made better to grow forests, ditched bogs better to grow forests. So here we are now making responsible decisions, being pioneers. In this debate, we started with coal. Hopefully, then, with our wooden feet, we will be able to make good progress, absolutely without coal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u128	Mr President! In Finland, about 67 per cent of annual growth is beaten, two thirds. If, for example, it is compared with Sweden, where about 80 percent are beaten, then there this is not sore as we are what is done about it. And it is as Mr Eestilä has just said that we have a bigger growth year after year than before. In the '60s, Finland beat more than the forest grew, and our forests have more or less doubled. We really should think about the future and think about when these investments are really long-term — they are planned for several years, it may be that even ten years — how the forest will grow then in the 20th century, it must be in sight. It may well be that it will then grow by 120 million cubic metres; there are forecasts of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-20-ps-162.u129	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The draft law decided at first reading must be dealt with in the order in which the Constitution is adopted. The bill can now, unless declared urgent by a majority of at least five sixths, be adopted to rest in the first parliamentary elections after the parliamentary elections or rejected.
