ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications on LiVM 6/2019 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Let us open a general debate on this matter. Mr Kymäläinen, the chairman of the committee, will present the report. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u2	Madam President! The Committee on Transport and Communications adopted the report on light cars at its meeting today and decided in its report to support the adoption of the proposal. The purpose of the proposal is to postpone the entry into force of the regulation on light-duty vehicles at this stage so that it can be further assessed from the point of view of EU law and to have the necessary discussions with the EU Commission. In its report, the committee stresses that the evaluation of the regulations on light-duty vehicles and other necessary measures must be carried out effectively and without delay, in cooperation with the Commission and the industry. In its report, the committee considers it necessary for the Ministry of Transport and Communications to take all necessary steps to find solutions. In addition, in its report, the committee points out that the government's proposal, which is required by the matter, must be given in time, with sufficient time for Parliament to deal with the proposal. Madam President! The report contains one objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u3	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u4	Madam President! There is indeed a proposal to postpone the entry into force of the Light Trucks Act by one year. Lightweight cars are necessary for young people, with the aim of improving the conditions for young people to move, making it safer. We have had a lot of discussion about this in this Chamber. There is now a need to move this issue forward after the EU Commission has made a fuss about it. I believe that, given that the report has been submitted on this matter and that it is now continuing to deal with and regulate the matter there, this issue should be dealt with as quickly as possible and then put into effect this legislation — if it is now late in the original timetable, then as soon as possible. A year is a very long time, and I would even consider it too long to deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u5	Madam President! We Finns do not accept that citizens are treated in this way. It is unfair that a law already adopted, even signed by the President, should be postponed only one month before it comes into force. Finland must be able to decide this at national level, and we in the Finns Party believe that it should be courageous and opposed to the EU's comment. The True Finns are quite certain, however, that the Commission will not pass judgment, as in many other cases. The Finns do not accept that the EU is the arm of the Central European Moped Lobby. That is why the Finns of Peru protested.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u6	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen and others present! I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that you are now present in the feedback debate on this matter after the committee has been dealt with quickly. Of course, dealing with this issue does not earn a lot of points if we consider that, first, this statement from the EU was held in the Ministry for several weeks somewhere hidden in the dresser, then it comes to the pages for a moment where a journalist happens to notice and do a story, then it comes to the public and then it is supposed to be so busy here in Parliament that even the experts on this issue can not be properly consulted, but they are even heard before the referral debate on this matter. It would be a good administration to listen first to what the Members of Parliament have to say on the matter, then go to committee and invite experts and have a careful discussion and discussion there. I also think, Mr President, that it is very exceptional for the two major parties — the Finns of Finland, who are by far the largest party in Finland and who, with this postponement, will increase their support even further, and the coalition, which is the second largest party — to resolve the constitutional problems of the government’s proposal by voting and blocking it. It is exceptional that constitutional problems should not be allowed to be clarified by the Constitutional Committee but by the vote. We remember from the last period many situations in which the Social Democrats in the opposition at the time hoped that the constitutional problems in the matter would be resolved, and then they were respected and the Council of Presidents took matters to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs without such junta votes and considered whether there were constitutional problems. I personally am not in favour of this extension. In my opinion, there is no reason or need to do so, and I shall vote, Mr President, to reject this postponement and to support the fact that, in accordance with the decision of the vast majority of the Parliament and as approved by the President of the Republic, Finnish young people will be able to make light cars available on the first day of November 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u7	Madam President! Mr Kymäläinen, Chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications, presented the report of the Committee on Transport and Communications on this subject. — Thank you very much, Mr Marin, for coming to this sitting on Friday evening. It's a valuable thing to do. — — — — When we discussed this earlier this week, ministers Tuppurainen and Harakka were also here to address this issue and, in fact, to answer these issues, to which Mr Heinonen has already referred. Of course, this is not a good thing that we are dealing with here. This is a pity, but it comes from a remark from the European Commission. Of course, Finland wants to have good legislation and to move things forward quickly. The Committee on Transport and Communications has also dealt quickly with this issue, this transitional period of the year, which is now in place. I personally believe that this is the right solution in this case, and I also hope and the Centre itself hopes that, now that this is achieved in this way, ministerial officials will start to engage in a rapid dialogue with the European Commission and find solutions that will enable Finland to have light car legislation that is compatible with Finnish conditions and which the Commission can and will adopt. We want, and I want and the Centre wants, that there will also be light cars in Finland in the future, which will make it easier for young people to travel in areas where, for example, there is no public transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u8	Mr President! The debate around this law has been very lively in this Chamber, in many families and especially among young people. The Government’s aim is to bring this law into force responsibly, thus enabling young people to have a new alternative, safe form of mobility while improving their road safety. The legislation on light cars was intended to enter into force on 1 November 2019. The adoption of the law at that time will be hampered by the EU Commission's strengthened position on the application of the Driving Licence Directive. If the law were to enter into force in such a way as to ignore the Commission's comments, it could result in a formal criminal procedure initiated by the Commission. It is not possible, on schedule, to determine before the current law enters into force whether the laws on light-duty vehicles can be amended to meet the requirements of the Driving Licence Directive to the satisfaction of the Commission. Mr President! The fact is that neither the legislator nor the government in Finland can legally act contrary to Union law — that is the way it is —
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u11	Chairman of the Committee Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u12	Madam President! It is quite true that this situation is quite intolerable and unpleasant for consumers and for many companies, and that is why we in the government have wanted to speed up the entry into force of the postponement of this law, so that we can make the changes that the EU is calling for and so that we have the opportunity to remedy this disturbance in the market as soon as possible. It is quite normal, Mr Heinonen, for the committees to take matters into consideration in advance when there is a deadline for the entry into force of the law which is known. We had a good conversation with the experts. Yesterday, we in the committee had already presented a draft report which, until today's meeting, was open to groups to discuss yesterday in their own groups, and today this draft report was discussed and adopted by the Committee on Transport and Communications. There is nothing different from the normal order of business here. Now we have the Minister you need here, Mrs Marin, whom you will have remembered to mention about 25 times this week, so please ask the Minister some questions when she is here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u13	I'd love to do that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u14	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for being here in all his busy hours, and I believe that this week we have already received very thorough information on this matter from others and by letter, so it is particularly good that you have now been able to come and answer questions from certain representatives who have asked them both here and outside this Chamber. The answers to these questions have already been available, but they have only been repeated in these corridors, so I hope that the Minister will also be able, if there is anything unclear, to bring them up, but I believe that this report, which has been prepared in committee and has come from there today, tells us quite a lot about why this decision is being taken and why we are here today. It's urgent. It has also been well ensured that the uncertainty that has now prevailed around this issue is brought to an end and that this issue is properly tackled by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u15	Madam President! I would also like to express my thanks for the swift preparation of this law. We have discussed this troublesome issue a great deal, and now we are moving forward. There has been a reference here that there has been some attempt to prevent a constitutional statement. I do not believe that the matter before us is something that should be referred to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It is up to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to give its opinion on the constitutionality of the laws in preparation and to evaluate the laws from the perspective of fundamental rights and international human rights treaties. I would like to remind you that the Constitutional Committee is not a political committee but a judicial committee. We are not implementing party politics in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u20	Do we want to have a debate on this? No, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u21	Mr President! The coalition continues its completely disbelief in opposition policy. Who here believes that if the coalition were in the government they themselves would go against the EU?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u26	Mr President! I would also like to thank the committee for its prompt work. This is not the situation that anyone has specifically wanted, and this came into the hands of this Parliament and this government. Sometimes there's a situation in life where you can't choose whether to do it or not, and now you have to do it. The background is the law prepared by the previous government and the law adopted by the previous parliament, which has since been in trouble with EU law. Mr President! The most important thing now would be to get clarity in this situation. Mr Heinonen, an even more unclear situation would only come into force if this legislation, which is now being presented, is not passed by Parliament. So the situation in which this law on slow cars in the previous Parliament would come into force would be the most uncertain. We have practically the law, but no regulations. It would be such a legal case that, if ever, there would be great uncertainty between entrepreneurs and then between consumers. That if this is to be the case in an even more uncertain situation than is the case now, then this representative of the Assembly, Mr Heinonen, will be the right model. I'm not hoping for it. I'm hoping for it. [TimoHeinonenarvous] Mr President! The question is: what is the line of the coalition? Mr President! I am reading this report from the committee, and it is behind this report that the members of the committee have been representatives of the Assembly. Mr Heinonen, what is the line of the delegation? Your fellow party is in favour of the government on this issue, but you are against it here. Mr President! It seems that this line of division in this matter does not go between the government and the opposition, it goes within the coalition. There are clearly two lines here: there is representative Heinonen's line and then, apparently, there is the official line of the parliamentary group. Parliament has been here for about a month in the autumn session, and even now, with the vote in the opposition, they cannot get their own ranks together — this is an incredible situation. After all, this is an incredible situation that has not been seen from a party such as the Coalition Party before. Could you, Mr Heinonen, tell us what the parliamentary group's line is on this committee's report?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u27	I will give a reply because the name has been mentioned on several occasions, Mr Heinonen, a minute, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u28	Mr President! We have Members of Parliament who are allowed to act in their own way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u31	Now, let's get a little bit of a little bit of this, shall we? I would ask those Members who wish to speak to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u32	Mr President! Both in the content of the bill itself and in this process there seem to be two lines within the assembly: it is the official line of the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party, and then there is obviously the own line of representative Heinonen and some other group. So you can say that in this case of slow cars, the coalition has completely torn in two. [TimoHeinonenarvous] Mr President! During the first month of the autumn session, the Coalition Party has completely torn in two on this issue. This is unheard of. This is unheard of, and one can say that surely no party would wish such a start on the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u33	Madam President! Indeed, even in committee there was no need for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to be sent. I agree with the ideas put forward here in this Chamber that a single representative can constantly demand that the Constitutional Committee be sent to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I think that this is a matter of strict consideration as to whether this should be done. As far as this unfortunate situation is concerned, we have received this comment from the European Commission: we do not have officials from whom we can expect their responsibilities to have to adopt such regulations and regulations. It is quite unheard of if Members of Parliament, none of them, think that it would be necessary to put an official in such a role as a public official in which he makes anti-European regulation which could lead to infringement proceedings. The Automobile Importers and Industry Association is also responsible for this postponement of the entry into force of the Act, so that these shortcomings, which we have heard, can be remedied.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u34	Madam President! I also wonder a little about this course of action that came from the assembly, that it has not been presented when the time has been, the necessary changes that they themselves are driving. I am a little puzzled, but politics seems to have to get used to small surprises — it is always a color in life, of course, when there are surprises, but I would not like them to come at least a lot in this room, and it would be good to have a line to keep up. What is important in this regard, in my view, is that, from the point of view of the European Union, this interpretation of their own directive — I think it is a driving licence directive, if I remember correctly — should be brought to the level that we are not making a contradictory solution to the directive. Admittedly, from time to time there have been these different debates in Finland that we are being directed from above. When we join the Union, we are committed to its decision-making systems, and that is what this is all about. A year's deadline, it's just a year, and that's when we're gonna figure this out.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u35	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Marin for having been here after the trip to the United States and for being here as a parent of a small child. I appreciate that very much. I myself have small children, and I would much rather be with them now than here to deal with an issue which seems to agree with the government on how to deal with this issue. Yes, it's accepted that light cars are coming. Now all we have to do is make sure that when young people buy them or their parents buy them, they can also drive them on your roads. This is what we are going to go through in depth, so that neither the EU nor anyone else has anything to say about it. I also think it's a little weird,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u36	Now the Minister has the floor. Three minutes, Secretary Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u37	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! First of all, I would like to regret that I could not be here when Parliament had a referral debate. I informed Members of Parliament in advance by letter, which also contained a long cover on what this is all about. As has been said here, I took part in the delegation of the President of the Republic on a mission to the United States, which is why I could not be here, but of course I am sorry that such duplication occurred. As far as this is concerned, this situation is regrettable, as has been said. This legislation was adopted by a very large majority last year by Parliament and it had broad support from almost all parliamentary parties, and now we are in this situation because, when the law was adopted and last spring regulations and regulations were being adopted in relation to this legislation, and these regulations and regulations were also sent to the Commission, just as the legislation was sent, we have received a remark from the Commission in August, where this position was tightened up from the previous one. These comments concern the same points, but the position has become even stricter, and now we have the assurance that this legislation in Finland is in breach of the EU Driving Licences Directive and EU regulations, and that is why we are now seeking this postponement from the Parliament, that we can postpone this legislation for a year, and during that period we will find out in depth and as quickly as possible whether it is possible to bring Finnish legislation into line with EU law. Unfortunately, there is no guarantee of this, but we will do our best in the Ministry of Transport and Communications to reach a solution that satisfies the earlier will of this Parliament that laws will come into force and then satisfies the European Commission that our legislation does not conflict with European Union law. This is to be done very quickly, that is, as soon as we get a position from Parliament as to whether laws can be postponed, then immediately we are going to work on bringing them into line with EU regulations. In other words, this is to proceed quickly, and yet I say that this year's postponement is a tight schedule, because this is such a package of legislation that it must be announced to the Commission in advance, which will take its time, and careful preparation of this law will take its time. This is not a small whole or a small thing, and I say that this year will be a tough one, but we will do our best to get legislation in this Chamber as quickly as possible so that then our young people can drive more safely on our roads, for example, during the winter months.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u38	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u39	Madam President! I am in favour of getting light cars on Finnish roads. Me and the Centre are in favour of it, and the whole government is in favour of it too. I am not satisfied with the progress of the law in this Parliament, nor with the delay and, in particular, with the Commission's comment. However, I feel the need to take responsibility for ensuring that the final law is safe for our young people and that this issue is brought forward in such a way that the frustration and uncertainty of this moment can be moved forward. Within the transitional period of one year, we must consider ways of ensuring that the solution is safe and that Finland does not face these sanctions. That is why I am looking at the Minister and calling for the urgent correction of this matter, which the Minister has promised us properly. The city centre will ensure that legislation that makes light cars possible is progressing in the government. This is not just a law, it is also a presumption that in a month's time we will have light cars and they will already be in service. That is why action must now be swift and flexible. The longer we protest in this Chamber about the promotion of the law, and the longer we drag on the table, the reflection of the Constitution, and so on, the different intractors, the longer the Finns are plagued by uncertainty and this law is delayed. As regards the non-constitutional nature, my colleague, Mr Kinnunen, has made an excellent speech on the purpose of the Constitution and the purpose of the Constitutional Committee. I believe that this official position of the Commission on the relationship between the laws of light-duty vehicles and the Driving Licence Directive was already known at the drafting stage, when, for example, Mr Heinonen has been here in Parliament to deal with it. I find it extraordinary that at that point there has not been any concern about such a non-constitutional nature or the particular need for its reflection in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs from the point of view he has put forward. This debate seems to me to be a long way from a political game, and I really hope that we will now keep our eyes and our focus on this subject, namely the promotion of this issue of light cars, and we will not play in the Constitutional Committee, because that is certainly not the intention of that committee in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u40	Mr President! From the point of view of consumers and entrepreneurs, this whole legislative process, together with all of it, has been regrettable since the last parliamentary term and, of course, this will not be better with mutual accusations. Personally, I understand these speeches that have been made here from one direction to the other. It is also very regrettable that the problems that were already known in the last period have not been passed on to all citizens. I was contacted by a father who had already bought a light car in the belief that it could be used very soon. He asked what should be done here, what the future looks like. Property protection is also a fundamental right for which I think this proposal could well have been assessed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I would like to ask the Minister: what is your greetings to this father and many others in a similar situation who have already purchased a light car?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u41	Secretary Marin, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u42	Mr President! As I have already said, the situation is regrettable and I fully understand the situation and the sorrow and annoyance of these families in this as a whole. None of us will get stylistic points for how this whole thing has been handled. That is where Mr Räsänen is absolutely right, and I share this view. Fortunately, however, Finland’s light car legislation has been such that these cars are ordinary passenger cars. In other words, this family member, like other families who may have bought cars before the laws have come into force: of course, it is also possible to sell these cars if they do not want to wait and see if we can get this legislation in line with European Union law. We will do everything in our power to bring it into line with EU law. That is what we are going to do now, and I hope that Parliament will give us its approval to postpone these laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u43	Chairman of the Committee Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u44	Madam President! First of all, I should like to thank Minister Marin for convincing us here that, when this postponement legislation is adopted, you will immediately begin to deal with the matter and put it in order. One aspect of the Commission’s comment was the driving licence law and road safety. I would like to ask the Minister whether there is also a need to reform or open up the legislation on driving licences in order to bring these matters to a level that takes account of the Commission's comments. With regard to these families, which have already acquired these light cars for the needs of young people, and of course with regard to the high expectations of these young people, especially where the journeys are long, going to a hobby and even going to school, and perhaps then working alongside the school: of course, all the reasons why 167 representatives in the last Parliament adopted this national light-duty legislation, sought to respond precisely to the need for safety and to contribute to the situation of these young people and their families. It is sad that there is a long-awaited law that had to come into force on 1 November and that this will not happen. But that is why I am very grateful that we are now making rapid efforts to correct these possible errors or disadvantages that arise here. This is also a responsible consumer policy, that we do not end up in a situation where, in the worst case scenario, there is no clarity as to who is responsible for the accidents.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u45	Madam President! This is indeed a unfortunate situation where we are, but we must move forward and move forward quickly. That must be the starting point. When I listened to Mr Heinonen’s speech earlier — he is no longer here now — I became even more sceptical about what he really wants, because on November 1st, 2019, we should have decisions on whether we want a transitional period or not, and then we should have the President’s confirmation of this government’s proposal as well, and the time is relatively short — November 1. — we are already in October. Personally, I would like the Commission not to initiate infringement proceedings against Finland. Nor do I want to end up in a situation where the legal situation is unclear and can lead to dangerous situations. Nor do I want consumers, people, fathers, mothers to be uncertain about the kind of light cars they can get their children. I don't want a situation like that here in Finland. I want us to have a safe situation in which we can move forward from this point of view. And that is why I think it is necessary, in this difficult situation, to apply for a transitional period of one year, at a time when the next steps must be taken quickly, to start working together with the Commission on these issues, that what changes we need to make to the current legislation, that we then have light-duty vehicles that allow young people to move safely.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u46	Madam President! It's not big, but it's very important to a lot of families. I think that Mr Marin quite well described this situation and also the fact that this whole process does not deserve the terrible stylistic points from the previous preparation. Well, I'm glad the Minister has taken this up now. Why hit another head on a cheater, I don't understand it at all. This issue will not be resolved by the political process of the delegation, because, as the chairman of the committee said, it was behind this report, and there was a great deal of consensus in this Chamber so that this legislation, together with the Commission, must be brought to an end. Let us try as well as possible now, and I trust in the preparation of the Minister and his machinery, together with the Commission, to find a solution that would help the everyday lives of many families and, in particular, that this aspect of road safety should be put in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u47	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Marin, for being here. On the other hand, of course, you can say why you had to hold these previous sessions when it was known that you were not here. This may be due to this sort of rush, which is why separate meetings were to be held this morning, and so forth. It says here that a year is a short time. It's a short time for us, but I'm saying that for a 15- to 16-year-old nassie, a year really feels like a lifetime or a life sentence. I said before that the EU has been opposed to those other issues, but not at this point. I don't know what this is about, the Achilles' heel, so they don't have the guts to resist it. Now, however, the Minister’s speech gives quite a lot of impression that this may not be achieved. Mr Marin, in his previous speech several times, suggested that it would not be a good idea for us to start talking about this now, but that we should try to find out and try to make a good result of it. I have to say that I am now really more concerned about whether this job is even trying to finish. It seems to me now that the gloves have fallen on every one of them. I have to ask you, do you really not have any fears about the kind of situation that, during this year, a motorcycle car crashes where a young person dies?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u52	And there were questions for the minister. Let us now give the Minister a reply — three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u53	Mr President! Thank you for the questions. First of all, Mr Laakso is concerned about whether I will be a minister and whether the Ministry will do what it can to bring Finnish legislation into line with EU law. As I have said before, we will do everything in our power to resolve this so that these laws can come into force — that is quite clear. But as I have said before, there is no guarantee. This is a very complex whole and there are a number of points here, some of which are easier to resolve. Mr Kymäläinen, chairman of the committee, spoke well and asked what changes we should make. Others are easier to solve. Speed is certainly easy to solve that which car speed should be. The second thing that can be resolved is the technical restriction on how to limit the speed — this is certainly not a problem. But then questions that are much more difficult to resolve include, for example, the mass of these cars. If we want them to be ordinary passenger cars, then this mass issue is one that is more difficult to resolve. Then, of course, the most difficult thing to resolve is this classification of driving licences, which relates to this EU Driving Licence Directive, namely whether it is overly possible to issue a driving licence rating to young people for normal passenger cars to be considered compatible with EU law. Here too, of course, one possibility, although I do not consider it to be a matter which can be resolved terribly quickly, is that European legislation can be changed to allow legislation such as that in Finland. But there are many points to resolve here, and that is why I have said honestly that there is no guarantee that we will succeed, but we will do everything in our power to find a solution. There is a clear will for that, and that is how we will proceed. And as far as the safety of young people is concerned, of course, we all hope that no accident will occur. But, as we are well aware, accidents happen in mopeds, they happen in ordinary cars, they happen in different situations, and that is why, in the government programme, the particular focus is on improving road safety as a whole. Our goal is that there will be zero serious or even fatal traffic accidents in Finland in the future. We attach great importance to road safety — both in this legislation and in all other activities. In fact, as part of the budget proposal, the government has given a whole of small improvement projects of this kind, and there is a large number of precisely such infrastructural projects,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u54	Madam President! Is it not a good thing that the government is doing everything in its power, as the Minister has just said, to bring the law on light cars into line with EU law and, with this, to bring the law into force and these light cars into the hands of young people? Would it not be more irresponsible for Finland — and in particular the Finnish Presidency of the EU — to ignore this comment by the EU Commission and its non-compliance with EU law and, despite this remark and the non-compliance with EU law, to only break through this law against the Commission's position?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u55	Madam President! It is absolutely essential that this issue be dealt with swiftly, as the Minister promised. This schedule is tight, but I think this is the kind of work that is being done in this work, that this is being taken seriously both by the political community and by the civil servant. This is what I have great confidence in. The second point that draws attention is, of course, the interpretation of the European Union directive. We Finns have this strange mentality of command from above, that someone should always tell us how to live in this country. I would now like to see Finnish officials and also politicians in the EU tell the Commission officials there, and also the Commission's top management, what the conditions are in Finland. It is quite different when Marco, from Italy, takes a ride in his car and goes to the tavern for a night’s coffee, than when a young person from Hyvämantsi goes out in his moped, even if now in January he goes out from Pipeline for a night’s coffee at Neste’s gas station. There is a slight difference, there may be a 40 degree difference in temperature, and when there is a meter of snow, then that moped is a terrible vehicle, it is a terrible vehicle: there are glasses frozen, there is nothing to see, and the lights are bad — a huge risk for safety for that young person. I would like you, Minister, to see your officials in the ministry or EU officials there in the Commission to make sure that this is what this is all about. And one thing: We do have similar examples from other branches of government. As far as agriculture is concerned, I have always mourned for the miracle of the Finnish farmer being subjected to all the provisions of the directive of the harshest species, even though our agriculture is north of the 60th parallel, the entire national agriculture — that is where the 60th parallel goes off the coast of Helsinki. On the north side of it is the whole of Finland's agriculture, and we are often compared with European agriculture. It's the same phenomenon. Why do we Finns always have to go the most difficult way? In this regard, I would like to see the safety and the goodness and positiveness of our young people get a favourable solution, and it would also create the belief that we politicians here in Parliament and in that European Union have a genuine desire to help our young people. A good friend of mine’s family got him a light car like this, or it’s not a light car, Volkswagen Golf — I’m telling you honestly what car brand it is. The young man is looking forward to it, most certainly waiting for his hands to fall, that one day he will be able to drive that car on his way to school and many activities he will be traveling about ten kilometers [10 km] next winter. But perhaps now the mother will have mercy and the father will have mercy to take the boy to his hobbies. But if they could get it to golf in order that it would have that speed limiter on it and it would be good and safe, it would be excellent. And speed limiters, as we know — they are used in formulas, and even formal drivers obey them — are not able to rotate. When you're at 60 that speed, it's there and it stays, and then if someone starts tampering with it and passing it, you're left with tracks like you always leave on the computer, who's changed it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u56	Madam President! Even in the committee, experts have estimated that the worst possible situation would be if the law came into force, because then the damage to citizens and businesses could be greater than if the laws were subsequently repealed as a result of the infringement procedure. It is therefore justified that this deferral law should be adopted in order to allow the Ministry to prepare, as the procedure for notification of technical regulations requires that the amendments be notified to the Commission and the Member States and that the three-month waiting period for the notification of technical regulations be respected. Preparations for legislative drafting, such as stakeholder consultations, translations and law review, also require sufficient time, depending on the scope of the changes. Mr Laakso, the Committee on Transport and Communications will play a major role when, in a year's time, we are in the process of preparing a law that would enter into force in which these shortcomings in the EU's response are being dismantled. I have not heard in this Chamber, neither today nor before, either in the committee on this matter, that no one would have said that this law was not going to enter into force. We want Finnish young people and families to have the opportunity to have light cars, to have national legislation, and we are trying to do everything in our power to remedy these shortcomings that the EU has pointed out, just as Mr Marin has already assured us on several occasions today.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u57	Mr President! I think that this debate on light-duty cars here is good, too, in terms of safety and also in terms of references to families having difficult situations here. The point that is coming up and to which I would like a little clarification is that this legislation should be in line with EU law. The Minister's response here was very clear that everything can be done to bring this into line with the criteria set by the EU, but there is no guarantee that it will be put right. And this last comment was so much in my ear that I would like to ask the Minister that what then, if there is no guarantee that it will be brought into line with EU law? Do we have the possibility of putting this law into force on the basis that it is incompatible with EU law? That I wanted to be more specific on this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u58	Secretary Marin, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u59	Mr President! As has been said, we will do everything in our power to bring this legislation into line with EU law. However, there is no guarantee, and the situation is very difficult in that way that, in the case of the ministry, one option would be to prepare legislation that repeals legislation, and that is something we do not want to do. We want to correct this legislation, that is our priority, but if we do not succeed, then one option is to prepare a legislative proposal to repeal it. Then again, if these laws continue to enter into force, we have the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice that we cannot adopt regulations and regulations relating to this legislation. I will probably not find an official in our ministry who would present to me — and I do not feel it is right as a minister to do so — regulations and regulations which are contrary to EU law, because they are directly within the ministry's own competence, not within the powers of this Chamber. So this situation is really difficult, from many different points of view, and that is also why this has been the solution we have chosen here: to postpone this entry into force of the law. During that period, we will work in depth together with the Commission to find out what we can do, what we must do in order to make this whole thing a reality.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u60	Madam President! Representative Berg has just told us very well about its essential role in Finland, because the reputational post in the EU is now more important than the young people in Finland. [of the Socialist Group : No! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u61	Madam President! There has been an in-depth debate on this situation and the committee's opinion is well-founded. As has been said many times here, it was already known that this legislation is incompatible with EU law, and it is problematic and truly regrettable that legislation is being adopted on such grounds and that the problems will have to be corrected afterwards. The most important thing in the future is to ensure that legislation ensures road safety. The EU has had serious reasons to intervene in this matter, and I say that the Greens are behind this report and the proposal in order to get this matter to a close. But I am correcting it when Mr Kymäläinen mentioned that he has not heard anyone say that he does not want the law to come into force: for example, in the previous debate, Mr Hassi has raised the problems of this law, and in further preparation these same issues will certainly be raised, and the very central issue is road safety, it has come up here. This really will require a thorough examination in due course. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u62	Mr President! I am still trying to spell this out for myself if it would also help Mr Laakso with his question about the EU. In other words, when the Minister said that everything can be done to bring legislation into line with EU law, but there is no guarantee that it will be met, did I correctly read the Minister's way of thinking that, if it comes into force, it cannot actually be applied? If that is the case, then we will understand where we are at, and then we will be forced to try to shape that situation in such a way that it is in line with EU law.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u63	Secretary Marin, do you have a minute?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u64	Mr President! The laws would enter into force, but we could not adopt regulations or regulations specifying the legislation, which would create a very problematic situation in many ways. Here, in part, the answer is also to Mr Laakso, who is why Finland would not, as it were, challenge the European Union. This is not about a two-way struggle between the Finnish State and the European Union, but about the fact that, if these laws came into force without these regulations and regulations, this situation would also be extremely problematic. And then if the infringement procedure were started and we had the laws in force and people would have bought and sold these cars, then if later these laws had to be repealed, this would pose a very high risk of a significant liability to the Finnish State. In other words, we are not trying to resolve these issues because we want to budge in some direction, but because the Finnish State, the Finnish people and the citizens would suffer as little damage as possible from this situation and that things could be managed in a sensible way. That is what we are trying to do to ensure that we can do things that way in a sensible way,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u65	Madam President! Minister Marin well described the current situation and, in fact, answered the questions raised by Mr Laakso in his own speech about what we are currently dealing with in relation to the EU. Personally, I am convinced that the current government wants – at least the centre wants to, and I believe that all government parties want – that we will have good legislation and light car legislation in Finland in the future, and as soon as possible. This year's transition to these laws will be necessary in order to bring about and change the discussions with the European Commission. As Minister Marin said, there are laws, but there are no regulations, and those regulations should define, for example, the type of limiters for cars. I personally hope that these issues can be resolved. As the Commission has referred to some of the things that we need to correct, there is traffic safety above all, for example, the driver's driving skills, whether there is a need to intervene, whether training is needed or whether there is a need to change speed. We have the 60 km per hour that came in the report of the Committee on Transport and Communications last season when the Ministry proposed a speed of 45 km per hour for a light car. I'm sure we'll have to think about these and we'll have to think about them. But mopeds are not going to be abolished by this light-duty legislation. Those mopeds are still possible if someone buys them and buys them. They are still possible. This is the fact that we should not now equate mopeds with light cars. This is a new vehicle for young people that is wanted for Finnish legislation in the future, and a light car may also be the solution for elderly people in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u66	Mr President! It is great to see how the government here defends the Finnish taxpayer. Above all, what are these speed limitation devices, or the roadworthiness tests, or the slow-vehicle triangles, all the instructions and settings — now they are properly examined and considered to be in line with them. As legislators, we cannot make such a risky situation, as the True Finns suggest that we should leave all of these open. How expensive it will cost the Finnish taxpayer, and how uncertain the situation will be for those families who will not then receive the fair advice and information on how to act on this issue. We must also have the kind of legislation that comes out of this house and, above all, ensure that both Finnish and Finnish taxpayers are not subjected to such infringement procedures and then have to pay for it from their own pockets.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u67	And the chairman of the committee, Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u68	Madam President! The question arises as to whether the Finns of Peru want national light-duty legislation, even in this way, because you choose the most risky way to drive into the wall and make a situation in which we would be totally denied access to these light-duty cars when we deliberately go in violation of the Commission's comment, which is based on about a dozen different complaints. It is necessary for them to react to this from the EU. It has become very clear here that if this law were now to come into force without change, we would be in a situation where the legal situation is unclear. This could lead to incidents, questions about liability, the type of speed limiter for a light-duty vehicle, or whether a light-duty vehicle should be inspected, whether it should use the warning triangle of a slow vehicle and so on, which would be controlled and controlled by regulations and regulations. Now even the Attorney General says that officials cannot adopt these laws and regulations, which also specify this security and also the protection of consumers' property rights and opportunities, when it comes to such an unjust situation, so yes I see that this government line and the line chosen by the ministry and the minister is responsible, as the whole government here has defended. This is not something that is perhaps populist in terms of quick profits, or what word you want to use, to always take this EU – as the Minister said that it is something we want to bow down to the EU here – but, on the contrary, to have national legislation and to be able to answer the Commission in such a way that we here in Finland are able to make legislation that we are not reminded of.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u70	Mr President! I will no longer take a position on this content of the draft law, but I would like to take the floor on this issue and on the procedure to be followed in Parliament when a matter is to be assessed by the Constitutional Committee. I would now like to go over this very carefully. It is true that, if, at any stage of the proceedings, there is any reasonable doubt in Parliament as to whether a draft law or possibly a law of entry into force is in accordance with the Constitution, then in those circumstances, regardless of the stage of the proceedings in Parliament, it has been decided that the matter will be referred to the Constitutional Committee. This was, for example, the case during the last term in the field of intelligence laws at the time when the matter was already in committee and from there and, indeed, had come. One constitutional expert raised doubts as to whether the draft law was constitutional in accordance with the report. That was when Parliament decided that this was to be looked at and explained. Mr President! Now I want to make two things clear. One is that no constitutional expert has expressed this doubt during this process, which is certainly due to the fact that it is established practice that even a law that has been adopted but has not entered into force does not enjoy the protection of fundamental rights in principle. So no constitutional expert has said at this point, but, on the contrary, the message has been a different one. Well, even if this kind of doubt arises, there is a good tradition in Parliament that the Council of Presidents will make a proposal on which committees to send a bill, what will precede it if I have understood correctly that the Secretary-General of Parliament will go through the various committee advisers, including the advice of the Constitutional Committee, whether it is appropriate to send the matter to the Constitutional Committee. This draft law, on the basis of this preparation, and also in line with the position of the Council of Presidents, was not such. If there is a genuine awakening in Parliament, there is a wide-ranging question in the opposition and, in line with established practice, the matter should be raised in the Council of Presidents. If it were to be put into practice that the matter should be kept afloat during the Council of Presidents and brought only in a situation where the entry into force of the law is urgent, and it is only in Parliament that it is proposed that we should now go to the Constitutional Committee in a situation in which no expert would have expressed this doubt, then the question would arise as to whether the intention should be to delay rather than actually bring the matter before the Constitutional Committee to be interpreted. Mr President! I'm going to the toilet. [To the speaker’s talker’s rooster—President : The speaker’s candidacy!] Mr President! There have also been cases where, for example, the opposition has raised a question, but in those situations it has been assessed whether the law is in a hurry to enter into force. There was a similar situation during the last parliamentary term when, in connection with the discussion of the Health Budget Act, it was proposed that the matter be assessed by the Constitutional Committee at the stage of the report. In that situation, it would probably have happened that the law would not have been able to enter into force as a budget law, and Parliament therefore voted, as it is now, that the matter was not sent. The second case in which the vote took place during the last parliamentary term concerned the tax laws, the change of generations of farms, where the government brought a new proposal and took away the doubted section. Nevertheless, there was a vote at the time, but it was a different interpretation from this one. That is why, Mr President, I would like to point out for myself that I think it is important that the Constitutional Committee does not go into politics, on either side or otherwise. As far as the government parties are concerned, it means that if there is any genuine doubt, it must be carefully reviewed and, if the timetable allows, or even under strict timetables, it must be seen whether this is possible. And on the opposition side, Mr President, that means how the opposition acted during the last parliamentary term: if there is any doubt, it should be pointed out in the Council of Presidents, which is preparing this motion and which is able to ask, for example, the Secretary-General or the experts he has appointed or directly from the constitutional experts, for further assessment as to whether the matter should be referred to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs or not. I just wanted to say, therefore, at the end of this debate, that I consider it important that this practice should be maintained both in the government and in the opposition, and that the constitutional issue, the evaluation of the Constitutional Committee, should be used with caution and not, for example, if the law is in a hurry to enter into force, at the referral stage of the Government's proposal, not to mention the fact that, at the first reading of the committee's report, the Constitutional Committee should be presented with a view to delaying this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-04-ps-45.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
