ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 29 January 2019. With the support of Mr Räsänen, Pia Viitanen has raised objections on 1 and 2. a proposal for a statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u2	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the proposals for statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u3	The 4th issue of the agenda is the topical debate on Finland's foreign and security policy tools to respond to international conflicts and humanitarian crises. After five minutes, Mr Vanhanen, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Soini, and Mr Soini, President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, will take the floor for five minutes. I will then give you 1 or 2 minutes of answers in the order I am considering. Answers are reserved by V-button. In total, an hour and a half is set aside for this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u4	Mr President! The idea of this debate arose in the framework of the Committee on Foreign Affairs at the end of last year, as information on the deteriorating security situation in Yemen and the humanitarian crisis increased significantly. When three-quarters of the population of a country is in need of immediate humanitarian aid and protection, there is a need for a wide-ranging international debate. The Stockholm negotiations in December were an encouraging step towards resolving the Yemeni crisis, but unfortunately the situation in the country is still not good. The issue still needs to be raised and solutions sought. The crisis in Yemen in particular has shown that greater attention needs to be paid to humanitarian aid and access to it. As far as aid is concerned, many organisations have thanked Finland for not earmarking all the assistance given to international organisations. General support and non-target assistance will increase the speed and efficiency of assistance. It is important to continue to hold on to this. International organisations must have the resources to respond immediately to changing situations without waiting for special aid gathering conferences. Humanitarian crises occur most often in countries where there is an active conflict. The instrument of the war has become increasingly the obstacle to the access of humanitarian actors to those in need. Access is often restricted and humanitarian actors have also been attacked. Finland itself, and as part of the European Union, must act for the resolution of conflicts and for the protection of the operating conditions of aid organisations. For this to happen, the so-called relationship network must be in order. It must also be possible to influence operators outside the traditional state actors who hold power in these areas. There is also a need for a strong EU acting under commonly agreed rules to resolve international conflicts. In my view, the question of whether the Union should also be able to use crisis management forces to ensure that aid is made available and transport routes must also be raised transparently. The so-called rapid reaction forces have never been used. If our instruments are only diplomacy and money, then the players taking the farm, who are also ruthlessly exercising physical power. In addition to those involved in the war, many international actors are key players in the continuation of conflicts. Arms exports are an important factor of this kind. That is why it was important for the government to take the lead in refusing to export arms exports to the parties to the Yemeni war. This is a policy that must continue to be followed in similar conflicts. Mr President! Peace and security, the realisation and development of human rights will not be sustainable without the participation of women and young people. Finland is already promoting the effective participation of women in peace processes. This must remain the focus of Finland's foreign policy in the future, regardless of the government base. When we talk about conflicts, we cannot ignore Africa. The most important thing is to invest in conflict prevention, and to achieve this, Finland should also consider new ways of supporting Africa's development. In addition to prevention, attention must be paid to conflict resolution through crisis management. African cooperation also has a clear link with migration issues. Increasing and safeguarding regional stability will enable people to remain in their own countries. Part of the whole of the modern humanitarian crisis is the multidimensional structure on the other end of which rubber boats are seeking asylum in Europe. This is often preceded by terror and the use of violent force, rape of women and girls, trafficking in human beings and all the power-emphasizing activities that implore people to flee. When they flee, they are often subject to other forms of power, the power of smugglers. People spend their family's last money getting a ticket. Now, at least, the situation has changed temporarily. The EU negotiated a longer border with Turkey, Italy has acted to close the Lebanese route and Finland has negotiated with Russia how our own border will remain operational. Here is one answer that is needed, but it must be supplemented by a system in which those who need asylum and who are entitled to refugee status in Africa can obtain refugee status safely on the African side. We cannot turn a blind eye to the reality that there are many humanitarian problems in the various levels of crisis in Africa that we need to be involved in.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u5	Madam President! It is very good that Parliament is having this topical debate. Unfortunately, in Question Time, for example, foreign and security policy issues are rarely raised. Finland contributes to conflict prevention and resolution and provides opportunities for people living in conflict and crisis. According to the recent Good Country Index, Finland produces the most good in proportion to its size for mankind. Our foreign and security policy is one factor behind this investment. Finland participates extensively in current crisis management, where the focus is increasingly on supporting the expertise of the partner countries’ own security sector. In Afghanistan and Iraq, we are NATO and In the framework of the anti-Isil coalition, supporting the development of the armed forces of these countries so that they can ultimately be independent in their responsibility for the security of citizens and to act against armed groups. The same objective applies to EU training operations in Somalia and Mali, among others. EU civilian crisis management operations are developing the capacity of internal security authorities in Ukraine, Iraq and across Africa. The OSCE Monitoring Mission in Ukraine plays a key role in: Follow-up to the implementation of the Minsk agreements. In all of this, Finland participates in the interests of its own safety and international responsibility. Finland currently participates in military crisis management with more than 400 soldiers within the framework of the UN, the EU and NATO and the coalition against Isil. Our civilian crisis management experts are around 120 in the world. The raising of our level of participation within the framework of future frameworks must be seriously considered if we are to be more involved in the management of the broad and, in part, new challenges affecting our own security. African conflicts and uncontrolled migration will continue and must be addressed through this too. Madam President! Peace mediation is a key means of preventing and resolving violent conflicts. It is often the first step on the road to reconciliation and can pave the way for longer-term support for the building of political, economic and social institutions. Sustainable peace will not be possible if more than half of the population is excluded from peace processes and decision-making. Finland supports the meaningful participation of women and young people in peace processes and peace building in various ways. In spring 2018, as my first country in the world, we launched a process to develop the National Action Programme for Youth, Peace and Security, the so-called 2250 Action Programme. A couple of weeks ago, I hosted a peace mediation event with the EU's High Representative, Federica Mogherin, with the aim of sharpening the EU's mediation activities. Mr Urpilainen, my special representative for mediation, was also present on this occasion with the floor. He has already done some work on the role of young people and women in focus, especially in Africa. Development cooperation has also contributed to conflict prevention by supporting the strengthening of the stability of societies. Promoting equal economic opportunities is a key means of contributing to the root causes of conflicts. The poor quality of education and teaching in many countries is an important factor that undermines employment and livelihoods. Strengthening the capacity of citizens to participate in decision-making can reduce the risk of conflicts. Finland is increasingly active in fragile countries and conflict areas. That is where the need for help is greatest. Madam President! The humanitarian situation in the world continues to be difficult. About 100 million people need immediate help. The main needs are in Yemen, whose problems were well illustrated just now by the chairman of the committee, Matti Vanhanen, and I hope that this issue will be discussed. Other crisis points include Syria and the Democratic Republic of Congo. Finland’s humanitarian aid this year is EUR 72.5 million. Finland is a relatively small but at the same time a valued contributor to the humanitarian system. Finland’s support will be increasingly needed in the coming years. Finally, Madam President, work in response to international conflicts and humanitarian crises requires a holistic approach. It also needs broad parliamentary support, which is why it is important to discuss this issue today with the whole of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u6	I will then give you one minute's answer. Please press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u7	Mr President! In one minute, only two brief things: The first is Ukraine. Everyone understands why Ukraine is essential in this respect, and the OSCE there is, of course, the most important actor in cooperation with Ukraine and Russia. We know about the PGI project, but when the implementation of the Minsk agreement, as we have just heard here, is also very much a question, would it be possible for Finland’s foreign policy — we know very well the realities — to take a stronger look at how a peacekeeping operation could be a stabilising step in the stabilisation of the situation in Ukraine, which is a necessary condition for yet more positive development? The second short point, President, is that, when we have military crisis management, we have civilian crisis management and, of course, we have conflict prevention and mediation, would it be possible to have these very important elements?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u8	Mr President! We have heard very good speeches from the chairman of the committee and the Foreign Minister, but we cannot fail to point out that this government started by cutting 40% of development cooperation and recording that only a hundred soldiers would be involved in crisis management. I now understand that Minister Soini, at the request of the party, admits this as a mistake, and that is a good thing. Now we have to move forward together. It is good that we are prepared in different ways for crises and those situations, but it is equally important and more important to be able to play a preventive role, and that, of course, is important for peace, disarmament, arms control, such matters. In these, I hope that we will be able to strengthen Finland's participation and expertise so that we have more to offer. The European Union is important and Nordic cooperation is important, but the European Union also has a wide range of instruments at its disposal to:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u9	Mr President! Mr Vanhanen drew attention to the delivery of this humanitarian aid, which is indeed a problem in the face of the crisis. The European Union has a rapid reaction force at its disposal, to which Mr Vanhanen also referred, and in this regard Finland made its own troops, as it were, ready for situations during the first government of Vanhanen. Those troops have not actually been made for war, but perhaps for crisis management situations such as this, which pave the way for humanitarian aid to be delivered. It was probably the optimal situation that was actually aimed at — not really at fighting, but at clearing the way for help. Would this not, Mr Foreign Minister and Ministers, be a rather appropriate way of trying to get help in some circumstances, on the basis of a very separate consideration, of course? Or why not use it, Mr. Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u10	Mr President! Finland will hold the Presidency of the Arctic Council until the end of May, and then the EU Presidency will be transferred to Finland at the beginning of July. Russia will increase its military presence in the Arctic region and the major powers will be increasingly interested in exploiting the economic potential of the Arctic region. China published an Arctic strategy a year ago in which it describes itself as an almost Arctic state. China is well known to use its investments to increase its political influence in particular. However, economic cooperation with China is likely to be in Finland’s national interest. The Arctic has been one of the priorities of Minister Soin's period and we have tried to increase the importance of the Arctic Council. The Government has commissioned a report on China's increase in influence, which will be published on 12 February. It is all right not to be naive about the risks involved. But I would ask Minister Soin: how do you see China's growing role in the Arctic, in the global economy and also in foreign and security policy, where their importance lies?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u11	Mr President! In peacebuilding, Finland has a long and fine tradition. However, Finland could play an even more ambitious role in this area. Finland could be a great power for peace building, but this would require much greater investment than what development aid is put into it. We must remember that peace-building is the best development aid that the countries in crisis need. In order to be successful in mediation, everything must be based on quality analysis, respect for the various parties as negotiating partners, although it is certainly not always easy, and, of course, on the impartiality of the intermediaries. However, financial efforts alone are not enough; real ambition and courage are needed to play a greater role in the mediation of peace as a superpower. I would like to ask the Minister of State: could we take a bigger and more ambitious role as a power of mediation?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u12	Mr President! It is indeed the case that Finland could be larger in its peace work. It is important that we work at a political level in the UN, in the EU, but it is also important that we have practical know-how on the ground and that Finnish organisations and Finnish experts can work in peace work. This requires the resources to which the representative of the Court of Justice referred here. These resources can be shared through development cooperation. I would also like to highlight the future Finnish Presidency and the role of the EU as a peacemaker. In fact, the EU has done quite an important job in Iran; now the United States is pulling a little under its feet. The EU could do much more in the Western Balkans; the Serbia-Kosovo negotiations are important; maintaining peace in the Western Balkans is important. And the EU could play a much, much greater role in Africa than it has today, and the EU should play this role more as a joint supporter of peace processes, and I hope that this will also become a strong point during the Presidency.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u13	Madam President! As the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Vanhanen, pointed out, one of the starting points for this debate was the terrible war in Yemen, the terrible crisis, the worst humanitarian crisis in the world at the moment, and the desire to discuss how to tackle it, how to help the situation. At the same time, however, much has been said about Finland's granting of export licences year after year to countries in Yemen that are engaged in civil war: Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates. The government has now finally decided not to issue new export licences, and even before it, when it knew that Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs was taking a position on this issue. In these matters, we should be much more precise in the future, think about what our role in the world is. And such countries, which are at war, should not export military equipment or weapons, nor should they be bought from them, if we carry its role as a mediator of crises.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u14	Madam President! It is a pity that the European Union is in a rather weak situation at this stage. We have the Brexis, we have the Eastern European Member States that are squirming and we have many internal difficulties in the Member States of the European Union. This is a bad situation insofar as we, as the European Union, are being challenged not only by the United States in trade policy but also by Russia in many ways. Now we need a strong European Union, right at this stage, and this is one of the things Finland can influence. We are indeed going to be the European Union Presidency in the near future. This means that we can think very carefully about how we will increase the unity of the Member States and their ability to cooperate internationally. It is extremely deficient in terms of those resources. We are stronger financially than the United States, but we are a kind of weak half-brother.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u15	Mr President! Maybe I'll bring a slightly different tip to this conversation: If those famous world books are confused, one reason is the disinformation culture and the virtual currents of the post-truth society, which are insidiously trying to manipulate our thinking and even our voting behaviour. One reason why these half-truths and outright lies spread on the Internet and social media too often sink into people’s minds is the lack of ability to engage in source and media criticism, which in turn may be due to the lack of general education. One of the key answers to this question and challenge is education, education, training, but perhaps also an enhanced foreign policy and perhaps an export policy for education. When you think about the fact-based way of analysing world spending, communication, influence and so forth, Finland is undoubtedly a good example country. On the other hand, when you consider cases such as Brexit or the recent US presidential elections and other crises where fact-basedness has been far from reality, the question arises as to whether Finland could participate even more in the defence and consolidation of a contractual world order through proven practices of general education and education. Could those who have been found to be in favour of alternative truths?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u16	Madam President! The question has been raised here as to whether Finland is now larger or smaller in its work on conflict resolution and humanitarian aid. If you look at history, Finland will certainly be a bigger player in the world in terms of the involvement of the peacekeeping forces. Of course, it must be said that it is unfortunate that, at the beginning of this term of government, there were cuts in development cooperation appropriations which, of course, would have largely contributed to the very tools for resolving conflicts and, on the other hand, for resolving humanitarian crises. This change in the rapid reaction force to such an improvement in the security of supply of crisis assistance, which has been raised, is certainly a very welcome and well thought-out issue. This should then be raised as an initiative under the Finnish Presidency. I would have asked the Minister for Defence about this crisis in Yemen: is it possible for these agreements now in force — because they will then continue?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u17	Mr President! In order to respond to international conflicts and humanitarian crises, Finland has too few tools and they are also partly misused. Like the Judge-in-Office and like Mr Essayah, I am referring here to the drastic cut in the development budget at the start of the work of this current government. On the other hand, I believe that resources have been misused in military crisis management. There are far too many resources committed to Afghanistan and Iraq. Like Mr Kanerva, I would also like to raise the crisis in Ukraine and ask the Foreign Minister: could more be done on the Finnish side to resolve this crisis and remove sanctions? In addition to military crisis management, it would be worth considering whether we could offer Ukraine assistance in establishing a constitution that would open up the political path to a solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u18	Mr President! It is good that the plenary is discussing the various instruments to influence conflicts and humanitarian crises such as Yemen. One instrument is an arms export policy, and it is worth sticking to Finland's long-term policy to refrain from exporting arms to warring countries. Another instrument is support for mediation, which has already been on the agenda here. For example, Finland’s support for the CMI organisation established by Ahtisaari also affects Yemen. CMI, for example, is engaged in informal discussions between political groups. The third instrument is to influence multilateral fora. It is worth promoting the real peace process on the UN track, and for Yemen, for example, the Stockholm consultations in December were a step forward. Through the EU, Finland can also increase pressure on Saudi Arabia's desire to promote regional stability. Mr President! Civilian crisis management should also be considered as an instrument. If Finland decided to send civilian experts to the UN to monitor, for example, the implementation of the Stockholm Agreement in Yemen, I think it would be very easy to support it in the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u19	Madam President! I would like to make the role and importance of education one of the most important priorities in our development policy, in our development cooperation. High-quality basic education, vocational training and teacher training are an essential development target both in developing countries and also in fragile countries. Finland has excellence in this, as we all know. Development cooperation is essential in programming as it forms part of a whole of foreign and security policy. Regional conflicts, the progress of climate change, extremism, infectious diseases and many other threats undermine the security of our planet and are also root causes of refugees. The problems must be addressed through comprehensive development cooperation and development partnership, crisis management and mediation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u20	Madam President! Management of the result is always heavier and more expensive than anticipation, as we all know, not to mention human suffering. So it is essential to avoid the need for people to leave their homes, their families, and their countries under duress. The most effective medicines for this are the control of conflicts and climate change, the education of girls and women and the education of women, as has already been mentioned here today in other speeches. It has been calculated that every euro invested in the sexual and reproductive health of women and girls brings benefits of EUR 120 to the national economy. So, in selfish terms, investing in the education of girls in developing countries is also an investment in ourselves. When one wants to break down generation-to-generation poverty, girls’ education is the key. In Finland, if any country should know, and this same medicine should also be offered and exported to others.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u21	Mr President! Mr Soini, it is difficult to imagine a situation in which a parent has to choose which one of his children he feeds and which one he lets starve to death. We have been in Yemen for a long time now, and it is clear that the tip of the Arabian peninsula is of interest to large neighbours because of oil transport. That is why the UN would have a role to play here. It would be important to get the port city of Hodeida under UN control so that humanitarian and food aid can reach its destination. In addition, it would be essential to open the airport and start the exchange of prisoners of war. Does the Secretary of State see the possibility of further progress in these matters? The solutions to the Yemeni war should have a broad internal negotiating team — now the foreign countries are too strong there — and it might be good to give the Huths the right to build north. What do you think of these?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u22	Let us have one more debate, and then the Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u23	Mr President! It is important for us to be prepared for crises, and the promotion of peace and democracy is one way of doing so. But in this debate I would like to have a debate on what we all know is that the population of Africa is currently growing so that by 2050 the UN has predicted that it will quadruple compared to the population of Europe, which is 2.4 billion — it will be an increase of one billion today. I would have asked: what are we going to do about this, for example, as part of development aid? We never really dare ask how they plan this demographic development. Everyone understands that when it comes to water, food, and space, there will be more conflicts. Even if we spend billions of money, it is a fact of life that when space and food run out there will be conflicts. I would ask Minister Soin: will they ever be discussed at those tables when it seems that this is such a subject that it is not really being raised?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u24	Then the reply, Minister Soini, please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u25	Madam President! I will try to answer as many questions as possible and thank you for the contributions, because reflection is also valuable. If we start with this Ukraine-thematics, it is very unfortunate that progress towards a sustainable solution to the conflict is indeed a flimsy one. And now it seems that nothing bigger can be achieved before the presidential elections in Ukraine,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u28	Let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u29	Mr President! The Foreign Minister presented a very good analysis of the basic nature of modern conflicts. There are conflicts that no longer have two countries in the traditional way, but there are internal conflicts where there are no outsiders, where differences and borders between the parties are difficult to understand, and when conflict occurs in circumstances where international law and law and international agreements are not respected, then those who have the ability and desire to use force will take the farm. It must be openly acknowledged that there is an extremely high threshold for open democracies, as in the European Union, for us to use force in any way, and that is something we should be able to talk about, particularly in terms of getting this help through. Often no humanitarian organisation necessarily wants to go after any military force to get help, but sometimes the possession of crucial airports or ports is extremely important, and if the conditions are right, then these EU rapid reaction forces could help in this. After all, one of their basic ideas was that these could help in humanitarian crises. This is an issue that I think Europe and Finland should visit.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u30	Madam President! I would like to ask the Minister: now that we really have this Presidency, what opportunities do you see for Finland to present proposals during this Presidency that would bring this fragmented European Union together better? It could also include this reform of the Battlegroups and a change in their philosophy, but it is very important that Finland should be the appropriate country to take such initiatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u31	Madam President! I agree with the Foreign Minister's assessment of the world situation and the complexity of the crises. I, too, am particularly concerned with this treatment of the Kurds mentioned by the Minister, or, in fact, with the omission. It is good to remember that Finland was training peshmerga fighters, taking part in this international responsibility also in these matters. The Minister of Defence was present at the time when I asked for the floor, and I would actually have asked the Minister for Defence why not now the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether Finland's military side of international crisis management should put more operations into larger entities rather than the current model, where Finland commits itself to several smaller operations in the world. This spring, we visited Lebanon alone with the chairman of the Defence Committee, and we also said that the Finns are in operations run by the French and the Irish. Would it be more appropriate for us to take on a more leadership role for ourselves in terms of our own performance?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u32	Mr President! First of all, Finland is a great country for peace-keeping. Thank all the sisters and brothers for that. There is a need to discuss the issue of cutting aid for development cooperation, and one of its aspects is whether or not the aid will reach its destination. Unfortunately, many of these countries, which receive these aids and subsidies, also have corruption as one element in their power, i.e. they need to be very closely monitored to ensure that this aid reaches its destination. But there is a need to discuss whether development cooperation funds can be increased and given in such a way as to be paid for, for example, by accepting these refunds, by accepting those who have been rejected by the asylum seeker, by highlighting the role of women or, for example, by climate change.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u33	Mr President! It is important that we have this valuable and important debate here. In particular, I hope that Finland is the country that is making sure that conflict pays particular attention to the most vulnerable groups. More than 350 million children are currently living in conflict zones, more than 4 million refugee children do not go to school, and, for example, the attacks often target schools. These attacks have become commonplace in conflict areas. The work of child protection organisations and human rights organisations in these conflict areas is extremely important, and I personally would like us to listen carefully to the speeches made by these actors. They have appealed to us, among other things, to put child protection at the heart of humanitarian funding in the conflict. At the same time, I would like to see this moral reflection on the Finnish arms exports mentioned by the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u34	Mr President! First of all, a comment on the five-minute speech by Mr Vanhanen, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs: Some sort of route between Lebanon and Italy was mentioned. At least as far as I'm concerned, I think this is the way to Libya. You might want to update the maps a little bit, or I'll be in the moonlight, which I doubt. However, for ten years in the Middle East, I have been both civilian and military in crisis management and training and leading the fight against corruption to the EU. So there's something I know. But I do know one thing: helping people on the ground is the most effective and cost-effective way of helping people. It is clear that transporting people, coming or smuggling thousands of kilometres from their homes to Finland is not a sensible and sustainable solution for Finland, for climate change in fashion or for countries of origin. Anyone who says otherwise does not know the reality. It's a brutal game. It is good that Finland is committed to:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u35	Mr President! Finland could play a stronger role in the resolution of international conflicts and crises, both politically and through increasing resources. The first condition for making use of its political space is that Finland remains a militarily non-aligned country. If Sweden had been a member of the military alliance, it would hardly have played such a prominent role in trying to resolve the Yemeni crisis. And I'm worried about this allocation of resources. Far too many of them have been scattered there and here, and where they have been concentrated, they have been concentrated in the wrong way. Finland has partly participated in Afghanistan's military activities, with more than EUR 800 million, without any substantial solution in sight. Fortunately, left-wing politicians are no longer the only ones who question this targeting and military presence in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u36	Mr President! Crisis and conflict do not come from nothing or unexpectedly. They often have a long history, and it is important that there is a knowledge that is able to analyse and intervene preventively, in time for such situations. It sometimes requires historians, too, because, unfortunately, historians have a tendency to become conflicts when they do not go through them. One instrument of this prevention is always to be able to act quickly. The Minister mentioned the beginning of the Syrian crisis. After all, there were 500 unarmed observers sent by the UN. It was far too small. It was important: when the observers were present, the weapons were silent. If there had been 5,000 or 15,000 of them, it may be that this could not have been a full - scale war of this kind. We don't know that, but there was one missed opportunity, too. In other words, countries such as Finland must be prepared to act quickly and deliver what is needed
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u37	Irade the Talman! The situation in Venezuela is chaotic. During Hugo Chávez, the economy was systematically and unfortunately effectively driven down, human rights were widely violated and freedom of the media was restricted. Maduro has taken this forward. The whole economy is in a state of complete chaos, and human suffering is enormous within Venezuela, and of course the surrounding countries are also suffering from it. You said a few days ago that the only legitimate democratic institution in Venezuela is Parliament. Many European countries said a few days ago that if Maduro does not declare new elections within eight days, they will recognise Guaidó as the official president of the country. Will Finland join these countries, or will we perhaps recognise Guaidón earlier?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u38	Madam President! Finland is widely involved in international crisis management, and today it affects a huge number of people. It is always well-founded that we are there because it strengthens the expertise of our own soldiers and develops our capabilities, but now we are there more and more because the situation requires it, and the risks in these tasks have increased all the time, and this must be recognised and recognised in Finland. There must also be a willingness to do this, which means that there should be an open debate about the fact that the risk of something happening in these operations has also increased day by day. That is why I would like to thank both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence and the government as a whole for the fact that the crisis management programme is in place and that insurance cover today also covers the family and family of these women and men, who are sent to these tasks by Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u39	Mr President! Foreign Minister Soini well described the complexity of international conflicts and humanitarian crises today. Thank you to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and to Mr Vanhanen for holding this important debate. Indeed, Finland has a fine reputation for both military and civilian crisis management, and for mediation thanks to President Ahtisaari, but I also pay attention to the prevention of these crises, and in particular to what can be done through development cooperation. It is a pity that no progress has been made in this respect, but, on the contrary, these opportunities have been cut even during this parliamentary term. It would also have been interesting to discuss this with the Minister for Development. But I ask the Foreign Minister how the Foreign Minister has now prepared for the prevention and action of these problems in view of the forthcoming EU Presidency.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u40	Mr President! This debate initiative really started in the autumn because of the disastrous situation in Yemen, and thank you very much to the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Vanhanen, who has taken this forward. In the Balkans of the 1990s, I myself learned three phrases: ‘the most dangerous are young people who do not act’, ‘the violent return to war chests’and ‘the tormented weapons in the war classrooms. ’ Well for all of these, the answer is education, which was also raised to some extent by Mr Paloniemi and Mr Haavisto. Education and civilian crisis management are, therefore, a hard core of security policy, and I would like Finland, in this position of power, to emphasise this aspect, because there are actually more and more people in the world who are emphasizing other kinds of security policy than less. All of us who have been involved in these tasks in the world also know that Finland, whether we like it or not, is always asked for solutions to education. They're actually expected of us. I would ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: could it be considered that even if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did this kind of opening in the direction of the Ministry of Education and perhaps in the direction of the Ministry of Education, that we would go to a toolbox like this to formulate solutions, both for vocational education and basic education? They are in huge demand in the world and may also strengthen our ability to participate in many peace processes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u41	Mr President! Security thinking has become more and more widespread. Security aspects are noted in cases where they were not previously seen, such as migration. Today we are talking about comprehensive crisis management, which should be coherent and coordinated so that we can respond to the problems in fragile countries after conflicts, but most importantly already in a preventive way. There is not one concept, but it would be necessary to respond to the needs of the situation in question. It is important that we really already understand and see this link between security and development, as well as development cooperation and external trade. Synergies between military and civilian crisis management are obvious and the role of civilian crisis management has become increasingly important.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u42	Mr President! I would have raised two more points: One is the relationship between the environment and conflict. Climate change and environmental change are causing conflicts and increasing refugees, and after the wars the environment will demand attention — there have been toxins in the environment, and it is not known whether agriculture can continue, whether water is clean and so away. We should pay more attention to this link between the environment and conflict. Of course, the fight against climate change is part of the fight against conflicts. The second point is that the great powers are not always the only players. I would like to take a quite different point: the opportunity for the diaspora to work towards peace. I went to Mogadishu a while back. It was a real pleasure to see Finnish medals involved in reconstruction, in the health sector, in the development of the administration. So trained experts from this side of the diaspora should also be used for peace work, and they should be given the support to do peace work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u43	Madam President! We are discussing foreign and security policy tools, and one of the tools that has been mentioned on many occasions is crisis management and also development cooperation. Today, poor countries bear the greatest responsibility for the world's refugees and eight out of ten of the world's refugees live in developing countries. More than half of all refugees in the world come from three crisis countries: Syria, Afghanistan and South Sudan. We also heard from the Foreign Minister that people die daily in Syria, Iraq and Yemen. Much has been said this season about the challenges of immigration and about how it should be managed. At the same time, development cooperation has been cut. What is it, Minister? We are talking about a humanitarian crisis. In this situation, was it reasonable for the government to cut 40% of development cooperation when there are numerous crises in the world and people are in distress?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u44	Mr President! Finland emphasises the leading role of the UN in coordinating humanitarian aid. The key pillars of UN humanitarian assistance are timely and adequate funding, effective cluster coordination, strategic leadership and partnerships between UN organisations and NGOs. The importance of coordination has increased as the number of humanitarian field actors has increased, and this has also been seen. Finland participates in the financing of European Union humanitarian aid through the Community budget, and the Union, together with its Member States, is the world's largest humanitarian donor. I would therefore like to ask how the package of humanitarian aid, the timeliness, functioning and delivery of aid could be further developed and ensured.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u45	Madam President! Representative Haavisto raised environmental and climate issues. I would like to add a third aspect to this, which is the growth of the population, which is part of the same whole. Finland must and has invested in education, the position of women, literacy and family planning in its development aid work, and I encourage you to continue in this area. There are currently some 1.3 billion people living in Africa, and the most pessimistic estimate by the UN is that the continent will have a population of 4.8 billion at the end of this century. That's an increase of three and a half billion. It corresponds to five European population, it corresponds to 600 Finnish population, and it corresponds to 15,000 Tampere population. It is quite clear that this growth will cause a worsening humanitarian crisis when it is combined with this climate change and the collapsed countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u46	Mr President! I think it is a very good thing that many Members have referred to the situation in Africa in their own speech. The future of Africa is very closely linked to the future of Europe. It may be said that what is happening in Africa is directly affecting us too. Here in the previous speech reference was made to the demographic development of Africa. In sub-Saharan Africa alone, 18 million new jobs should be created every year in order to employ young people entering the labour market. It is a huge challenge and it has therefore been positive to note that the role of Africa has now been raised in the European Union as well. The President of the Commission, Mr Juncker, launched an alliance initiative aimed at creating investment and hence growth and jobs in Africa. The European Union is also the world's largest donor of development aid, so Europe has a lot to do in this regard, as Mr Haavisto said earlier. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: how does Finland intend to keep Africa on the agenda during its Presidency of the European Union? Now is the big momentum to create a common strategy for the European Union in relation to Africa. Will Finland keep this issue on the agenda during its Presidency?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u47	Mr President! Good themes have been raised, and I will raise young people as one. Half the world's population is under 25 years old. It's a pretty wild number. It is therefore of great importance that these conflict countries should be able to make special efforts during the reconstruction phase to provide such training and prospects. I will return briefly to Yemen because I think it is very important and it does not necessarily receive the attention it deserves. There is also a deadly epidemic of cholera, and I would also like to see a stronger response from the international community, and I believe that in Finland too, in the treatment of this disease, Yemen should be given. So can we help control the cholera epidemic?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u48	Madam President! The right thing has been said here is that development funds have been cut quite wrong. I would also raise the money allocated to humanitarian aid, which has also been cut in a situation where there may be more refugees in the world than once since World War II. When we have the terrible crises that have been discussed here, we must invest in humanitarian aid. Madam President! At the same time, we must constantly look forward to not giving birth to more crises. Foreign Minister Soini referred to the situation of the Kurds, particularly in northern Syria. It is an intolerable situation that the country of NATO, Turkey, is trampling on human rights, restricting the democratic rights of the Kurds, at the same time bombarding its own citizens and also bombing neighbouring countries in Syria and Iraq. This cannot be allowed to happen because now that the Kurds, who have been the number one force in the fight against the savage Daesh, have evicted Daesh, they will be left alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u49	President! Firstly, the announcement that I support Mr Vanhanen's view of the use of the EU's fighting forces. It's a good idea to think about it. That is something I would like to address: unfortunately, Finland is not a great peace-keeping power in the world. Unfortunately, that is the case. There would be a number of reasons for this, both selfish and universal, that this should be the case. Third point. Mr Torsti referred here to education policy. It makes sense, within the framework of our development cooperation, to do so forcefully. It's been revamped about 10 years ago. But I ask: would it be possible for Finland to take from Africa its own country, whose entire education system from the bottom up would be implemented in accordance with the Finnish educational concept, which would be an excellent model product and the possibility of exporting education to countries where the school needs support?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u50	Madam President! There are good comments here on the importance of education and so on, but I would like to continue to emphasise this one root reason. Yesterday the Transparency International Corruption Perceptions Index was released, and if you look there at the countries where corruption is most prevalent, they are the ones that are the weakest and where these conflicts usually exist. So I would ask Foreign Minister Soin: do you think the State Department has any plans to strengthen anti-corruption programmes? As long as the money goes into the wrong pocket, education suffers, health care suffers, everything suffers. It's been seen in so many places. When we are eradicated, things are getting a lot better in all countries. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u51	Mr President! European social development is based on Jewish-Christian values, and I claim that the Western concept of human rights is also based on the premise that Christianity has had on the undivided dignity of human beings. However, it is known that today Christians are one of the most persecuted religious groups, either as a minority or as a majority in some countries. According to Open Doors, in 73 of the 150 countries followed, Christians suffered extreme persecution. This means various legal restrictions, discrimination, different forms of hostility, burning of churches, killing — the worst countries such as Afghanistan, Somalia, Yemen, Eritrea, Sudan. For example, in two of these countries no public churches are currently in operation. Finland takes refugees through the UN refugee quota. We could place particular emphasis on vulnerable groups, such as Christians. Is there any way, Mr Soini, that the blue and the green can find each other? So when Emma Kari was here talking about the attention of particularly vulnerable groups, we'll help.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u52	Irade the Talman! De nordiska länderna — kanske speciellt Finland, Sverige, Norge och Danmark — har en mycket lång tradition av framgångsrikt internationalellt arbete när det gäller fredsbevarande verksamhet, krishantering, medling och så vidare. Vi har gjort insätser skilt för sig och tillsammans som ger en klart större tyngd än våra länders vikt skulle medge.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u53	Madam President! A world without orphans is the dream of many. It is also the name of an organisation from Ukraine, and less than three years ago a group of about 20 young people visited Finland on a bicycle trip, promoting, raising the possibility of adoption. Now these young people are digging trenches in the city of Mariupol near the border and listening to the sounds of war. In Syria, a Syrian medical colleague works 24 hours a day and sends a message how he could never have imagined, a few years back that Syria is where it is at the moment. And I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs in concrete terms: what will Finland do for the well-being of children and young people in these countries in such a way that they can get through the conflict as far as possible and that the roots of bitterness, bitterness and bitterness do not grow in them? And when you look at their lives, their education.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u54	And then Mr Jalonen, and then the chairman of the committee, Mr Vanhanen, and then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u55	Mr President! I'd like to return to that arms export. It is, as everyone knows, a very difficult question, but knowing that arms exports to warring countries are not dependent on Finland taking or not, and at the same time knowing that EU policies are somewhat different from those of Finland, would it be better for Finland to follow EU guidelines in arms export policy and try to influence them in the same direction in order to bring them closer to the Finnish line? The second point, mainly on the communication side of the committee: We know that there is a lot of fake news and that it even moves at EU level. On Twitter there is incorrect, guiding information, nations vote for interested people who are wrong
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u56	Mr President! In order for the helpers to be able to help, the helpers also have to mind their own business, and this criticism of development aid cuts must of course be mirrored against this. This is a difficult question. I hope that next parliamentary term will have resources to increase aid, but I also think it is important to recognise that something has to be done differently from what we have done in the past.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u59	Then, Minister Soin's answer, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u60	Madam President! It has really been a pleasure to listen to these speeches and to the active debate and the proposals for solutions. We should have much more of this in Parliament, in a constructive spirit. I shall start with this good initiative, in my opinion, by Mrs Kanerva. I don't know how it's possible to put it into practice, but this is just the idea of putting one country in order. Of course, the Ministry of Education and development ministers and others are essential here. Africa is important — and this was my main topic last on Ambassador Days in August — and it will be important. With regard to migration in Africa, four out of five changes take place within African states and only one out of five. This is also entirely dependent on what Mr Urpilainen pointed out, that 18 million jobs must be found a year, and if not, then the movement will continue. I had an interesting morning at that Davos meeting. There was one African morning and there was a Ugandan president, a long-standing statesman, and he said that when he went to school for business studies in 52 years, he learned such a thing that the demand or demand means what arises from the words desire and ability to buy. Very wisely he told what are such basic elements, and if the economy is not in order and there are no dreams and such consumption intentions coming, then there will be no demand. Similarly, I think that Mr Raatikainen has made a very good point here about the fight against corruption. Good governance: If there is no good administration, functioning structures, a judicial system based on law, protecting people from violence and other things, nothing will be created. No matter how much money you pour through that trat and the Supilus, nothing will happen. And these are issues in which education, cooperation and all this can be influenced. There have been many good speeches from Paloniemi, Torsti and many others. Mr Elo and Mr Haavisto spoke earlier on about Arctic and environmental issues. This has a revolutionary meaning. That is why Finland has worked hard as President of the Arctic Council so that black coal, many other such unhealthy, negative phenomena can be eradicated. The first sufferer is an island country that threatens to drown in the ocean and where the conditions for other life go away. Similarly, the persecution of all minorities, whether Christians or siestas, must be taken seriously. The most recent bombings in the Philippines, attacks on Coptic churches — they must be condemned and dared to say quite clearly. The role of the Nordic countries, as Mrs Wallin, among others, has pointed out here, is absolutely crucial. Yes, we do. In the Nordic countries, we are quite smart people when such systems have been made here on the roof of the world. We must be able to rejoice and take it forward together. Finland was in favour of Swedish membership of the UN Security Council. Sweden worked well there. Now we are all in favour of Norway, and when Finland is a candidate, the Nordic countries are in favour of Finland. It is an important link worldwide. In all of this — in the position of children and so on — a holistic approach is important, it must be remembered. I welcome the ideas expressed by the chairman of the committee, Mrs Kanerva and also Mrs Kääriäinen on how to use these EU-battlegroups. When they take huge resources and money into it, could they be of any use in practical action? Mr Heinonen then spoke about peacekeeping and also about peacekeepers. Yes, the stopping moment is: I have visited Afghanistan twice at the memorial of the fallen Finnish soldiers, and there is no dry eye. It is an international responsibility, and those boys and girls must be taken care of in advance who expose themselves to it. Then there's a lot more to say. Clock's ticking. I will take this question again about these non-governmental organisations, the charitable organisations, including the broadcasting organisations. They are doing extremely important work with their lives. We have a lot of those. This morning, I heard of a surgeon who visits Kenya for two weeks a year to cut off deformities on a voluntary basis. This is the kind of thing we need to do and be encouraged to do. It is also so that voluntary help and awakening of people is important, but also that the money gets through. And here I am referring to the anti-corruption and good governance, because nothing irritates people as much as the money earned with hard work goes into the pockets of the singers and cheaters when it should go into the pockets of those suffering from help and distress.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u61	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. President Guzenina, on a presentation, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u62	Mr President! It is very nice to see that our Foreign Minister is here in the ministerial box listening to this debate. I hope you'll be able to stay a little longer, depending on... [TimoSoin Nod ] It is good that this very topical debate was held on the tools of Finland's foreign and security policy to respond to international conflicts and humanitarian crises. It is good to continue with this on another topical issue for Finland and for Europe as a whole, namely the Council of Europe's Annual Report. This debate on our referral came at a very good time for a number of reasons. Since November 2018, Finland has been the chairman of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers, where our Foreign Minister has been chairing with merit. Foreign Minister Timo Soini also attended the General Assembly of the Council of Europe last week to report on the progress of the Finnish Presidency programme and also to answer questions from parliamentarians in 46 Member States. In addition, a very authoritative second guest attended last week’s General Assembly, namely President Sauli Niinistö of the Republic. He also gave an important speech and answered questions from parliamentarians. In his speech, the President stressed the importance of the values advocated by the Council of Europe. Among other things, he said that human rights, democracy and the rule of law — the fundamental values of the Council of Europe — can only flourish during peace. That is why maintaining peace must always be a priority for all of us. He also called for the organisation to reflect on its visions and priorities. Our Foreign Minister also highlighted these three priorities of our Presidency programme. They are the strengthening of the European system of human rights and the rule of law, equality and support for women's rights, transparency and inclusion, and the prevention of radicalisation of young people. In May, Finland will then hold a meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the Council of Europe, celebrating the 70th anniversary of the organisation's defence of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. But I must say that this presidency of ours is going to hit a very challenging time. The choice of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe is one that is now heated there, both on the side of the General Assembly and on the side of the Council of Ministers. A new Secretary-General is to be elected to the organisation in June, and at the moment there is a great deal of concern about the state of the Council of Europe in general — 47 Member States, one of which is currently not taking part in the Parliamentary Assembly, the General Assembly of the Council of Europe. The basic task of the Council of Europe is, of course, to safeguard and develop human rights, pluralist democracy and the rule of law, and at present these values are no longer self-evident. The current international situation has led to this kind of crisis thinking, and more and more people talk about the crisis of democracy. This electoral influence, which was also raised in this recent debate, is undermining human rights control, the fundamental principles of democracy, trolls, hybrid threats, fake news, all of these. Populism and radical attitudes are reflected in many policy areas — especially when we go to certain countries, for example, freedom of the press has come into a very questionable situation, human rights in general and the realisation of democracy on a very fragile basis. So it is now very important that the institutions that have defended these important values, and the Council of Europe is certainly one of the most important, remain strong and credible. The Council of Europe is struggling with an internal, political, economic and institutional crisis. This is not an exaggeration; this has been understood for a long time. On the situation in Russia: At present, 47 Member States are involved in intergovernmental activities, which are currently being run by Finland, but in recent years only 46 Member States have been involved in parliamentary activities, and this is the result of the Russian occupation of Crimea and the crisis in Ukraine. The decision of the Parliamentary Assembly to limit the activities of the Russian parliamentary delegation in April 2014 led to the failure of Russia to deliver its parliamentary delegation's credentials for four years, and the fact that Russia has not yet submitted credentials for 2019 in January does not allow the country to participate in the Parliamentary Assembly's activities throughout this year. In addition, Russia has soon for two years failed to fulfil its membership obligations — this is a serious case —and has failed to pay two thirds of its membership fee for 2017 and the full-year membership fee for 2018. And now some EUR 60 million, with interest, have accumulated debt to Russia, which means that the funding of the organisation is on a shaky footing. In comparison, Finland’s annual contribution to the Council of Europe is EUR 3.5 million. The General Assembly has required the Committee of Ministers to require Russia to respect its membership obligations, including the membership fee, and has called on the Committee of Ministers to reform the financial rules in order to ensure the functioning of the organisation, since the Council of Europe is indeed an organisation based on values and rules, and these rules should be committed to by all Member States. Cooperation is therefore based on common values and principles. The Finnish Presidency will end in May 2019, and it can already be anticipated that the problems in which the Council of Europe is currently struggling will certainly remain to be resolved by the next presidency. After us will be followed by France as President. At the moment, however, expectations are very high for Finland. Of course, this requires diplomatic skills, dialogue, understanding of the situation and a constructive approach, and of course it is also necessary to be aware of the wider dimensions of the crisis. And I must say that I have been monitoring the activities of our Foreign Minister and of our President of the Republic and I know that, at ministerial and national level, this issue is in good hands. And, of course, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will monitor compliance with existing standards and will also take the initiative in creating new legal standards.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u63	Madam President! The chairman of the Finnish delegation of the Council of Europe has just given us a comprehensive overview of this year. I myself would like to make a point about that last year's report in a little more detail. In other words, the issues of freedom of expression and the media again spoke a great deal last year in connection with the Council of Europe's meetings. As the report for 2018 mentions, freedom of expression involves rights and responsibilities. They're not just media companies, they're all of us. It does not matter what kind of information we share and what kind of values we share through it. The spirit of time is that public confidence in us political leaders, officials and experts is, unfortunately, becoming less and less. One reason for this is that people feel that they are not being heard, and that causes discontent. We politicians must therefore first and foremost learn better rhetoric and speak to people in people's languages. Political work after all is a customer service profession, and an appreciative dialogue, if anything, is the destruction of propaganda and disinformation. As I said earlier, during the Council of Europe meetings, we talk a lot about the media, including media literacy, and Finland is doing well in international media literacy studies, for which we can thank our high-quality comprehensive school, where teachers are highly educated and remain politically neutral in teaching. This often brings praise to the meetings and also questions as to how this is possible in Finland. Our young people are smart and better able to identify disinformation than previous generations, because they have been born and grown into digital literacy. However, data transfer and social media are developing at an accelerated pace, and it is important that we invest in the education of our children. And it is also important to teach them critical scrutiny of the media and various media texts and, above all, thinking with their own brains. In order not to create a growth base for dis-information sharing, it is equally important to teach our young people diplomacy, dialogue, respectful argumentation and listening skills of presence. However, thank you again to the chairman of our delegation for his good work and for this good coverage. Last year was an interesting year in the Council of Europe, and that is certainly this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u64	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Guzenina for the comprehensive report and the report on what has happened on the parliamentary side of the Council of Europe. I would have drawn attention to one particular issue. After all, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe also manages the European Court of Human Rights, and when it comes to the whole issue of Russia, it is perhaps worth remembering that many Russian citizens have been able to use the European Court of Human Rights as a final step in seeking justice. And when you look at the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, there have been compensations for the relatives of Anna Politkovskaya, where the treatment of the Pussy Riot band has been condemned — it has been too violent on the part of the regime — it has condemned the arrests of Navalny as political arrests for opposition leader Navalny. These are extremely important decisions with regard to human rights and civil liberties in Europe, and I have personally been concerned about the fact that, if the Russian citizens were taken away from this complaint path — if Russia were also outside this Court of Human Rights — human rights or human rights in Russia would not at least improve on these critical issues. That is why I think it is worth considering how Russia would be involved in this area of human rights, despite these difficult circumstances.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u65	Mr President! I agree with the chairman of the delegation, that is to say the table that Mr Guzenina just made on the work of the Council of Europe last year, specifically within the framework of the Parliamentary Assembly, was very commendable. I must say that the Council of Europe is currently in a political and economic crisis. I think it is a great thing that Finland, with its own chairmanship of the Committee of Ministers, is now taking an active role. The Foreign Minister, Mr Soini, gave an excellent speech last week at the Parliamentary Assembly, also responded well to the questions that were put to Finland, and is now trying to resolve the dispute that arises precisely on the question of Russia's membership. As Mr Guzenina described, Russia has failed to pay its membership fees and has also failed to leave its credentials, and that is how we are now faced with a genuine threat that Russia will be leaving the Council of Europe as a whole. In the previous debate on the international situation, quite a few colleagues stressed the importance and importance of multilateral cooperation, particularly for a small country such as Finland. I see the Council of Europe as an important part of multilateral rule-based cooperation and, as Mr Haavisto described above, the work of the Court of Human Rights, as part of the Council of Europe's family and whole, is of course of exceptional importance now, even if it is countries such as Russia. In this regard, I would like to encourage the Foreign Minister to use the remaining time that we now have in this Presidency by looking frantically for a compromise which could allow the payment of Russian contributions and hence the discharge of this debt and, on the other hand, their return to full membership of this Parliamentary Assembly, above all. I know that different models and solutions have been considered in the Foreign Affairs Office, but I am still encouraging active action to resolve this dispute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u66	Mr President! I would like to thank you for these thanks for my presentation and share the concerns expressed in this Chamber about the state of the Council of Europe. I think it is important that when there is a debate with parliamentarians from different countries in the corridors of the Council of Europe, Finland is trusted and has a reputation as a reliable partner and a solution-oriented dialogue maintainer. This in itself is an element that has already brought dialogue closer to the Council of Europe, even in official instances. In this regard, our foreign ministers and the President of the Republic have played their part, and I would like to thank them very much in this very difficult situation of the Council of Europe, where we have a presidency and there are so many different problematic knots in the organisation that we must be able to resolve. Mr Haavisto raised the issue of the European Court of Human Rights and its role as a legal guardian for the Russians, ordinary people. This is an extremely important aspect, which is often forgotten in the discussions within the Council of Europe, when it considers how to resolve the crisis in Ukraine, as it were, through sanctions and others. The fact is that the crisis in Ukraine is and must be resolved. The situation is currently illegal from the point of view of international law, but at the same time we have the ordinary Russian people there, and if Russia leaves the Council of Europe, they will be deprived of this last instance of complaint, which is therefore the European Court of Human Rights. Mr Haavisto rightly described how well it has also shaped the Russian judiciary in a better, more European direction. Many Russians themselves say that, while their country has been a member of the Council of Europe, their level of democracy has improved slightly, however, their case-law has improved slightly, the corruption of judges has decreased enormously, and these are important issues for which the Council of Europe was actually founded: that we should be the same family, that we should share the same value base. That is why it is better to keep in this area those countries which, at the moment, perhaps go where the bar is low or even below it. It is important that we keep the dialogue between parliamentarians and at ministerial level that we hold these debates, and by creeping out, by creeping out, we must not be discouraged, because democracy, the rule of law, freedom of the press are all values that must be adhered to, because when the Council of Europe was established, it was established to uphold these very values.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u67	Would the Minister like to respond? Minister Soini, please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-30-ps-150.u68	Madam President! Very briefly: In my opinion, the issues that have been raised in this debate have been very good and are a source of pain today. Finland is a decision-making country. We're active. We were able to get the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly to talk to each other, to byro from every group, and now we are trying to create processes that would enable us to find solutions to these issues. It is, of course, totally unacceptable that a country does not pay its membership fees — it is unacceptable — but it is also the case that we have to look at all the cards so that we do not end up in a situation where one major Member State decides to leave the Council of Europe. Let me take one practical example of this human rights situation in Russia: with the help of the European Court of Human Rights, the Russian Correctional Institution has largely been reformed, a product of the Stalinist era. Very many Russians have personal or family experiences of this. There is one practical example here which, with the support of non-governmental organisations, with the support of civil society, can create structures that alleviate oppression, promote human rights, produce good things. Perhaps this is just the kind of activity that we should continue to invest in. The reception there was really good, and we will do our best to have more solutions than problems in May when we meet here. But I am so realistic that there will still be problems in May.
