ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u2	Madam President! I am very happy to present to Parliament a proposal from the government proposing a reduction from 24% to 10% in the tax rate applicable to electronic books, newspapers and magazines and to the sale of magazines. [Department: Finally! ] It was hard work to get this change through in the European Union, but with a broad influence this was successful. The Government considered that the development of this area and the development of digital content was of such importance to employment and job creation once again that this was prepared in a timely manner for domestic legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u3	Let's go to the debat, and the first debatable speech is by Mr. Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u4	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank you for this excellent presentation. We know that print media has been going on for over a decade, you might say, in a transformation. In particular, the number of subscriptions to newspapers is decreasing, including advertising revenue, while at the same time efforts are being made to cope with this change in order to increase and market electronic newspapers, like magazines. But at the same time we have a lot of free information content available online, of many levels, and it is certainly worth worrying that we in Finland are able to maintain high-quality, delivered news material, journalism and in that way also high-quality newspapers on that network, and that is why, in my opinion, in this overall situation, this kind of presentation, which is now being brought to Parliament, is very necessary and good, and hopefully it will also bring relief to this sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u5	Madam President! This is a great thing, and it's been a long twist. Thank you to Minister Orpo and the entire government for that. Of 24 %, VAT is now dropped to the same level as in printed newspapers, that is to say, that 10%. It is an important issue for our magazines and also for our books, which are moving rapidly into electronics. But this is also important for upper secondary school students: At the beginning of the year, we also introduced an educational material supplement in Finland for upper secondary school students with a textbook cost of up to EUR 2000. This is a welcome reform for our young students too. Let us hope that this discount will also go to the prices of their textbooks and in this way lowers the costs of our students, which are, therefore, already EUR 2000 in high school for textbooks alone. So great news for Finnish students as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u6	Mr President! I am sure that from the opposition, too, we can rejoice very much in this bill. That has been our common goal, and it is very important to see that this proposal is here today. I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Minister for this hastily prepared now that the necessary changes have been made in the EU as well. This is a worthy proposal. All in all, I would draw attention to this operating environment, where the Finnish media is currently living. It is very important that we are able to secure the future of independent and high-quality media in this challenging environment and global turmoil, whether the future of YLE or the operating conditions of commercial media, and this VAT, and in this case digital alvi, is a very important means of doing so. I would also ask the Minister to bear in mind, in due course, the views of the rapporteur, Thomas Harpf, who came as a result of the work of the Conference on Press Affairs, that the whole question of value added tax for commercial media and other media could be considered in a joint approach to the development of the VAT system.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u7	Madam President! In the early 1990s, when this VAT system was created in the Aho government, paper publications were placed at a lower VAT level. There was no such thing as this electronic world as it is today. If we had known then, we would certainly have done this reform. But now, of course, we must be pleased and happy and we must thank the government for finally having this proposal here at the end of this parliamentary term, which could have been sooner. This has been on the agenda of many initiatives and measures in these past years, but it is good even now. The next term of the government will come into force.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u8	Madam President! Every government makes both good and bad decisions, so does this. Perhaps there have been a little more of those bad decisions, but now that there is a good point in the motion, it should also be praised, especially in this situation, when I think there will be a little more than praise from the opposition towards the government later this evening, when we start to confuse the soup. Madam President! This has been a problem for a long time, and here one can say where the EU, there, is a problem. Throughout the 2010s, attempts have been made to resolve this in the direction of the EU. Finland has had a clear will, and it was even considered during the previous government that what if we reduced this VAT rate and had to go to the European Court of Justice, which I understand France, for example, has done. We must have a neutral VAT system, so it cannot be that, depending on the instrument used, the same service has different VAT rates. That is why, of course, this is very important for books and magazines, but also, in my opinion, as a principle that this should be promoted, and it is therefore good that this has now been brought to Parliament's attention as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u9	Madam President! Indeed, it is very important that VAT on digital magazines should fall. Indeed, this has been fought for years in the EU too, and there has been a little lack of understanding. This is important in the sense that the major crisis is now in the media world. From the commercial side, it has also been pointed at the direction of the YLE that this is somehow like Yle's fault, when one can act as well as a cuckoo. The fact is that big international players, YouTubes, Googles and so on, have taken a lot of money from the media. That is a problem that cannot be solved here, but if this tax reduction can even somewhat revive the activities of the media, print media and also digital media, it would be good to do so. I have to say that the Finnish media was not well prepared for this digital side at the beginning, and now, hopefully, earning logic will also work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u10	Madam President! It is really great that this issue was finally brought through at EU level. As a tax issue, it called for unanimity, and there, of course, a few countries were able to put a stop to this. This fall in the value added tax on digital magazines and digital content at the same level as the print is, of course, such a question of fairness — it is a question of the same content — but, as several colleagues have said, it is also evident in this media change that it is good to be able to support the material provided, that media can be supported that wants to follow journalistic instructions in its work. In the sense of what is going on on that network, what kind of fake news and other things are going on there, yes, this presentation can be completely behind it, and this is extremely important. It is a pity that it took so long to move this matter forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u11	Mr President! As I said yesterday, I am prepared to wish the Minister of Finance a very good year for this praiseworthy and excellent presentation. Mr Viitanen was too modest to say that it was Minister Viitanen who commissioned a report on the future of the press, which already seemed challenging four years ago, and in these times of trumpetocracy and putinocracy it has proved increasingly important that the free press and, more generally, Finnish language, our mother tongue, culture, should receive the support they deserve. So, in this form, there's nothing but commendable. And I will defend the government against the opposition by saying that it would probably not have been possible to do this any sooner when, on 6 November in the EU, this decision was reached that this can be done, and now we already have this proposal in our hands.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u12	Madam President! Thank you, Minister Orpo, for bringing this forward quickly and for the fight to make it possible in the EU. There are a lot of points of view here. The development of literacy is one such aspect. According to the latest results, literacy in Finland has gone a little downhill, and hopefully this will also have a positive impact on it. This is also linked to freedom of expression. And it has been said here that there are many kinds of goods on the web, and the better media literacy and literacy in general, the greater the opportunity for citizens to look for reliable information and the better opportunities for the media to compete economically in the market so that journalists can make decent material. What I was looking at in this government proposal, then the environmental impact there has not been specifically assessed. I would assume that this also has a connection with them, so that the less we print the goods, the more it moves in digital form, the more it has positive effects on the environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u13	Madam President! The reduction of any tax from 24% to 10% is significant, and that is why this will certainly receive praise. There will be so much satisfaction from the opposition that it should be recorded so that, on more difficult days, you can listen to that at home. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u14	Mr President! Now the record of the government program that is important to the people of Peru also comes true. Of course, putting digital magazines in VAT at the same level as print media is reasonable and worthwhile in every respect. It is quite important for Finns to be encouraged to read. However, reading brings experiences and knowledge. Media literacy is more important in today's world than ever before. Hopefully this magazine industry and the Finnish literature industry will get a little extra kick out of it and consumers will now find these digital magazines even better.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u15	Mr President! This is good for Finland's competence, growth and employment, but also for reading children. I should like to thank Minister Orpo for his prompt action when this matter was previously also a matter of EU law. Indeed, this is quickly done and a good thing in itself. This will reduce the problems of the future of our paid, reliable media compared to, for example, print, paper costs or taxes, and we are likely to have a better future in knowledge-based literature.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u16	Mr President! This is indeed a very welcome initiative, which is now being discussed here. Of course, I would like us to get even lower, that is to say zero, on these issues. I know it's probably a pretty big job to get there. But it is a question of obtaining objective information, of being able to transmit objective information, of being able to attack a variety of cyber attacks, which specifically concern information, and then of being able to identify and correct false information quickly enough. Hopefully this will give more power to our newspapers and our press to work online as well and to take things forward, to bring the right information, to bring the kind of information that Finns need. A very good and worthy thing. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u17	Mr President! I agree with the annual praises given to the government, which are quite rare in this Chamber. It is highly justified that electronic publications with the same reading content should be subject to the same reduced rate. It is a question of tax neutrality or, as the government proposal says, of neutrality between them. The government's proposal came very quickly, as early as 13 December — it might have been overlooked by some — and the EU Council took its own decision on 6 November. There was a very quick response to this. It is also important that individual sales are subject to the same rate as for subscriptions to newspapers and magazines. It's a proper change, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u18	There are about a dozen replies here that can be made here. Then the Minister's answer and we move on to another theme.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u19	Mr President! Versatile communication today requires its defender, and the legislator, the social decision-makers, must do their own work in order to maintain diverse and multi-sonic communication in Finland. It concerns broadcasting as well as safeguarding commercial television news and, in this case, improving the operating conditions of digital communications. In this respect, this has been a wish shared by all of us, and it is worth agreeing with these thanks to Mr Orvo and the government. I will, however, raise two further points. The first concerns the fact that it would probably be justified now to see how this is passed on to prices. We know that sometimes when taxes are calculated, they do not pass on prices to the consumer. And now I assume that it would be worth adding to this a further piece of work which considers that this is passed on to prices and thus genuinely increases access to mass media. The second point concerns the pricing of Posti for printed newspapers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u20	Mr President! First of all, congratulations to the Minister for Finance for finally bringing this matter forward from the EU table. As we've heard from the gym, it's been a long time since there was a strong will to take this. There has also been much talk here of independent communication. I have to say that the regional press, together with Yleisradio and commercial television, of course, is the backbone of Finnish information, and it was already at a time when the situation in our regional press was quite worrying. Now, of course, the situation has improved somewhat as economic growth has brought more revenue at all, but it is still being strongly challenged by international giants such as Google and Facebook and others, so it is absolutely necessary that what can be done to strengthen the status of regional newspapers be done. And this is exactly what has been done so that they can receive digital compensation for the decreasing number of printouts.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u21	Madam President! These thanks are easy to agree with. In my opinion, the Finnish media field is of high quality and is still in transition, even in distress, which digitalisation has brought with it. Printed merit logic no longer works, and in deliveries, where that quality journalism is done, it has been seen as diminishing resources, negotiations and decreasing resources to do that work. A functional media field is multi-sound and diverse, and a functioning media field is a prerequisite for democracy, and that is why, in these times of fake news, in these polarised times of debate, this is a very welcome addition, which hopefully will be reflected in the deliveries and will provide better opportunities to make high-quality journalism and thus maintain our high-quality civil dialogue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u22	Mr President! The world has moved and the environment has increasingly moved into the network, including the world of children and young people, and it is important that children continue to read a lot. This reform will bring digital reading and also print-reading to the same line and it will no longer depend on it not being available. Good reform. Similarly, the cost of teaching materials will hopefully be calculated and the cost of education reduced. We must, of course, ensure that those discounts also go there at prices. The Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, must be commended for this very rapid process. It is great that we have achieved this change with such a rapid timetable, which was nevertheless at EU level and Finland-led, and it is good to go to the EU presidency as well and show that Finland is the top country in education.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u23	Madam President! I agree with you, and I am not tired at all — let us hope that Mrs Harakka will not get tired of this praise from the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u26	Mr President! The government should be thanked when the time is right. Sometimes there's cause for it, today there is. Thank you. In this government proposal, VAT on electronic books, newspapers and magazines will be changed from 24% to 10%. This is a fair decision. But again to the government: this is a good example of the fact that there are times when good decisions can be made quickly if they are to be made. The Finns are very pleased that this presentation supports Finnish culture, reading and Finnish language.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u27	Mr President! Of this government proposal, it could be said that at last. I already took this initiative in 2013 and it already collected almost 100 names. Unfortunately, Mr Harakka, it was then that the demars were completely absent.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u30	Congressman Haraka had someone very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Are these compliments simply not good enough for the government? Can it not be just one thing that this House is unanimous on without yet trying to pick up political points on the one hand, or on the other hand to label someone as an opponent? As an example in the Yle Group, all political parties felt that a reduction in digital value added tax would be justified. All the parties. The previous government studied the matter, and everyone has agreed on this, and now that it is time for thanks and for the harvest, when we are at the point where we can promote truth-based journalism in the fight against delusions and misleading journalism and promote Finnish-language civilization, which we can all support unanimously here, let's try now to rise to this situation and to a small festive mood for the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u32	Now only five people will be admitted and then the Minister will answer and then we will go to the next one, namely Hoskonen, Turunen, Meri, Multala and Stefan Wallin. - Did Stefan tell you to leave? I'm afraid so. — Mr Hoskonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u33	Madam President! Mrs Harakka's thanks and compliments are very good for the signatory, and warm thanks for that. However, in political history I mark this as a work that is considered to have such a cross-border temperament spirit — it is a very positive speech at the beginning of this new year. Of course, the real work has been done by Minister Orpo and the Sipilä Government in this matter. It's been a long twist. I know that, that EU policy, sometimes it is quite long-winded. But I would like to thank Mrs Heinäluoma very much for raising the issue of the distribution of newspapers, which also relates to this media. After all, digital releases are now spreading in the blink of an eye around the world when they want to, but from distributed paper and printed products in general Today, for example, postal services charge local newspapers and provincial newspapers such distribution fees that these magazines are really, really, in serious financial difficulties. It reduces the level of knowledge sharing and, above all, the possibility of social influence, and it is a big deal for this society,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u34	Mr President! I too share the thanks that have been paid to the Minister for Finance, Petteri Orvo. The Kankaanniemi criticised this timetable here, that it was only now in Parliament, but the truth is that this had to be negotiated first in the EU and, as we have now heard, it has been rather lengthy and difficult. But once that negotiation has been concluded, the Minister of Finance has brought this proposal to Parliament on a very short time. Like Mrs Hoskonen here, I also raise this concern, which Mrs Heinäluoma first expressed. It is precisely on the basis of the feedback that has come from all over Finland that these small free distribution magazines and small subscription-based newspapers from small municipalities are in difficulty because of the pricing of this distribution. Since there is no competition, then Posti has traditionally defined its price,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u35	Representatives Meri, Multala, Haavisto and then Minister. — Representative Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u36	Mr President! True Finns share the idea that versatile and multi-sound media is important, and I hope that this will also encourage new entrepreneurs in the industry. Yesterday we also discussed freedom of assembly, possible change of notice, freedom of expression and freedom of opinion, and that is what this has to do with — communication of information, communication of ideas and the dissemination of people's opinions. We have also discussed electoral influence, and that is an important topic, for and against. Yesterday I raised it — I did not get an answer to it and I would hope that at some point on the part of the government I could — do we have any campaigns in favour of the speech? At the moment, we have a lot of work to do in relation to how we are actually a little afraid of people talking. I would like the government to respond to how, before the elections, we would have as diverse and multi-sounding a network as possible, where people could speak, because now it seems to be restricted.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u37	Mr President! I personally agree with these thanks, which have been widely distributed to Mr Orpo in this Chamber for a particularly rapid response, which has already been able to negotiate this possibility in October to bring down the digital alvi and, as early as December, to bring the proposal here to Parliament, and this is what we are discussing here. I particularly welcome this because we now have a more level playing field for printed and digital material, and I believe that it has the potential to calculate, among other things, the cost of learning materials. On the other hand, as has already been pointed out in previous speeches, reading has also shifted much to digital materials today, and I believe that this will also have an impact on reading. Children and young people, in particular, are holding the phone in their hands all the time today, and it would be great if there were also a look outside the videos, now the possibility of reading digital books would be used to an increasing extent.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u38	Mr President! On the Green side, too, I would like to thank Minister Orpo and the Government. This is an important issue that has been discussed for a long time, and it is great that it has now been achieved. It is important that digital material is competitive with print material, and when many consumers have moved to digital books and read digital products anyway, it is very important that there such material is also available to everyone. Perhaps in this context, I should like to say that this will probably not remove the overall pain of our newspapers and magazines, and perhaps this pain of merit logic on the digital side, which has been quite remarkable when so much of this free material and internationally produced material is available. The following measures should certainly be considered, which is precisely what we need here in Finland to maintain this versatile newspaper and magazine and maintain the Finnish language as a viable one, but above all the diversity of opinions and freedom of expression will remain strong in the national channels.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u39	And then the minister. Is that enough for a minute?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u40	Madam President! Thank you to the House for your thanks. It took a while to thank you. At least I feel that I myself have had the strong support of the whole Parliament in the ministry. In the large committee, we have gone through an innumerable number of times, and every time I have received unanimous encouragement from it for the journeys in Brussels. I'm glad this worked out. Our media field is indeed undergoing a major change, and that is why this need is becoming so great. The change is towards digitality, away from paper magazines and printed media towards digital content. Once that pressure has been felt by our media operators being financially tight, it is hoped that this will bring the needed room for manoeuvre there, so that we can invest in the development of genuinely digital content and thus take care of the diverse and important media and freedom of speech and high quality media that we all need here. I think that this is the right thing to do and the right thing to do. In my opinion, it is worth following the dynamic effects of this reform in tax terms. In many tax decisions we consider and debate them, but we now have a good case to look at. How does the production of digital content develop? Is it going to be a clear twitch? I hope that the media companies that have wanted and promoted this will now respond to their calls in that regard. The tax revenue can also be considered. We have estimated that this will reduce tax revenues at the beginning by some 28 million per year. Let's see how the accumulations really go. This question of the Post is not directly part of the signatory's role. However, it may be necessary to comment in that way that we must ensure that the delivery of mail, the distribution of newspapers throughout the country is possible, but it is actually the place of its own big debate — and, of course, how this affects pricing. Thank you to the House. This is a good start this year. I hope we can make a lot of decisions in such a good spirit.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u41	The debate and proceedings are suspended at this stage. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after the hearing has been closed on other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u42	We will now resume the debate on item 2 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u43	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to amend the VAT law so as to reduce the tax rate applicable to electronic books, newspapers and magazines and to the sale of magazines from 24% to 10%. The sale of printed newspapers and magazines has been on the decline for several years now, and I think it is excellent that this tax change is finally coming. Reducing the tax rate will certainly increase the transition from printed publications to electronic publications. This is a tax issue which requires unanimity, but at least today there seems to be unanimity on this issue in this Chamber. An electronic book would also be regarded as an audiobook in the future. In the case of such a audiobook, it would also be necessary for a printed or readable electronic book to exist for the same reading content for consumers. Audiobooks are also constantly increasing, and it is nice to listen to them when you drive these long business trips on Finnish roads alone. This fall in VAT on digital magazines and digital content to the same level is also a question of fairness, as Mr Essayah said earlier in this Chamber. I think it is all very well that this government has received this proposal for our decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u44	Mr President! It is indeed a pleasure to praise this performance. I, too, constantly listen to a lot of audiobooks, and I know a lot of people whose reading activity has increased considerably with the audiobooks. We in Parliament this season have been concerned that the reading activity of the boys has decreased considerably and the literacy of the boys has diminished, and I very much welcome the fact that, with the calculation of the VAT on audiobooks, we will also make audiobooks cheaper for young people, and literature in this way will also gain confirmation from this Parliament. Just this morning I listened to a debate by Yle, which said that books are actually very expensive in Finland. Of course we can also borrow books from the library, but especially in the case of novelty, the queues are very long, and it is very good if we get the price of books down a little. Typically, a book of poetry or a novel costs about 30 euros, and that is a pretty big price for any citizen. So I would like to thank the government warmly for this good proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u45	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u46	Madam President! In this proposal from the government, the legislation amending the Securities Markets Act and the Companies Act and some of the related laws are essentially two major issues in my view. In the proposal, we propose to amend the Securities Markets Act and the Companies Act so that it is proposed to strengthen the influence of the shareholders of the listed company on the remuneration policy and its content, and in such a way that the decision to reward the members of the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors and the CEO should be based on the remuneration policy presented to the general meeting. The decision on shareholder remuneration policy at the Annual General Meeting would be an advisory decision. Another important entity is that the right of the listed company to obtain information about its shareholders should be improved. The proposed provisions concern foreign owners of listed companies whose investments are managed by administrators of administrative registration or investment firms. So the stock exchange company would be much better informed about its owners. This is therefore intended to be a tool for listed companies and to improve access to information, not directly to the authorities, but elsewhere we have already put forward a bill which is before Parliament and which significantly improves the information provided by the authorities, in accordance with the will of the Parliament, by giving up the simple procedure. Madam President! With this brief presentation, I hope we will have a good debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u47	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u48	Mr President! This is also an important legislative proposal relating to the EU directive of almost a year and a half ago on shareholders' rights to know the company in which they have invested. In other words, in contrast to most of the legislation, this has been based on the fact that a small investor, a shareholder, has the right to know where he is invested. In Finland, too, there are examples: if I take Afarak Group for example, the real beneficiary was not known in the Finnish listed company, when shareholders' rights were trampled on. This legislation in progress in the EU, which thus increases transparency in companies, was already referred to several times in the management register debate in this Chamber. I am not going any further than this, but I note that the European mainstream has already been discovered at that time to ensure that the ownership of companies is more transparent and was not well suited by the line chosen by the Finnish Government, that in the very good transparency that existed in Finland — the knowledge of who owns the Finnish companies — a backward move was taken, as Mr Orpo mentioned there, and with Mr Turuse, the chairman of the then Economic Committee, a consensus was reached that some sort of patching-up measures would be taken and that they would later come to the Chamber. What has to do with these other parts of this proposal is also significant. When I asked a London City professional what was the most important factor in the financial crisis, he answered with one word, and that was reward. In other words, we had reached a situation in which, especially in the financial sector, the reward had been completely removed from the company’s profit or from the actual contribution of the awarded person to the success of the company. And it was terrible: the multi-annual recession of hundreds of if not thousands of billions of euros, high unemployment on a global scale, and, as is recalled, it hit Finland particularly hard in 2009. This legislation is necessary and it is worth remembering the importance of such measures at all times. Ten years is a short time, but it still seems that the real reasons why money markets need better supervision are often forgotten.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u49	Mr President! This proposal is a good legislative reform, which puts the transparency of a limited liability company across the EU at the same level, so that this Finnish one could say that reasonable and leading transparency is also possible elsewhere, and thus the rights and obligations of the shareholder will, of course, be brought to the same level. Here it is precisely that the general meeting of a limited liability company defines the company’s policy on how it rewards the company’s management and other activities, that could be said to clarify the view of the shareholder that there can be no surprises later in which the Board of Directors would have rewarded an activity or a person in a company that cannot justify the conduct of the original policy. Of course, this will also make the obligations and rights of the company’s related parties more accurate and more transparent, and the transparency of operators, for example, will be improved in the future. For example, the transparency of the activities of a proxy company that invests the assets of a private equity investor elsewhere will also be improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u50	Mr President! The objective of this legislative amendment, based on the Directive, is to promote shareholder influence in listed companies and to increase transparency between companies and investors in information and ownership. This is a minimum harmonisation directive, which can also be better regulated at national level. The directive is very welcome and this amendment of the law is welcome. This will improve the right of listed companies to obtain their ownership information, and it is good that the right to information and transparency is strengthened by law. However, it is regrettable that the government has stated that the tax authorities, for example, do not have access to this information channel. I hope that this will be considered in committee, because the tax authority has so expressed its wish, and it should be clarified whether it is possible to open up this route to the authorities as necessary within the framework of the directive. Another good thing about this directive is the policy of remuneration, to which Mr Harakka, for example, referred earlier. The Directive and the law based on it improve shareholders’ influence over management remuneration. Unfortunately, however, in the proposal, the Board of Directors has somewhat watered down this objective by making the vote on the remuneration of the general meeting merely advisory, and I would like to ask why this is so, because the directive would also allow the result of the general meeting's vote on the remuneration policy to be binding on the management, and some Member States have come to this end. This would then be even more transparent, transparent and binding than merely an advisory obligation to comply with the general meeting's vote on remuneration. In this legislative amendment, investment firms should be obliged to establish and publish their corporate governance principles. However, this bill leaves the possibility not to publish these policies and then to justify why it does not publish these lines. I would ask: Why is such a choice made? Would it not be more transparent and transparent to all and achieve the objective better?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u51	Madam President! This proposal will increase the transparency of ownership and reduce the facelessness of ownership, which is a welcome reform. This proposal also provides an opportunity for increased interest in investment activity in general. It does not make sense at national level to have more than EUR 80 billion in non-productive bank accounts today. This proposal will ease this pain if people have had this idea that they do not want to put their money on faceless stock markets when they do not know which one of them will ultimately benefit. This gives us a better chance of getting information about how my holdings are working. It would also be great if social investment could increase and we would have investment activities of general benefit that are rapidly becoming more widespread in the world. Many rich people are now setting up different companies that already channel their ownership, that profit will be used to increase the social good and improve the world. I hope that this positiveness around investment could increase. It could also open up new opportunities for doing good.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u52	Mr President! Mr Laukkanen's speech is quite right in the big picture, because it is in the accounts that too much money is being set aside, and it would be good to make it available to companies, by investing in companies. But here is also the reverse side of the coin: I have had this situation a few times that an older person has invested his wealth, his savings in these funds. And I have noticed that the marketing of funds has been quite accelerating in Finland, and it is often quite aggressive, and it is said quite frankly that little unwarranted promises are often made when those funds are sold, when the consumer should understand, however, that when he invests in the fund, there is a risk that he will lose considerably, especially now that it is known that this year will look quite turbulence on the market. So it is actually my question to the Minister here that when consumer protection is rather weak and the premiums vary quite a bit, i.e. the costs are quite different by fund, do you see some sort of need for better consumer protection? However, if, in the light of the current consumer protection rules, an old man has indeed — as one such message came to me — invested in a bank’s own fund, persuaded by a bank official, then there is no consumer protection in it when, however, one can in some way be regarded as having understood where to put his money, but he may not have understood that these bank’s own funds can have quite a high cost and that it can be lost. There is one thing here that has given me some thought, and that is why I am asking in this context. But then another topical issue that I would like to raise here, which Mrs Harakka has made quite clear, is the taxation of foreign investors. Does the assembly have anything to say that would it really be a good way to collect more taxes in Finland? At least Finns would be very interested in introducing withholding tax on foreign investments. After all, Norway, as the Minister for Finance is probably well aware, is raising the withholding tax on foreigners from 15% to 25%. This system that individual investors are forced to seek it back is now unreasonably difficult for even Finnish investors, who have a lot of investment in Norway and other Nordic countries in particular – Denmark also has about the same situation, I think there is 27 per cent. How are you going to react to this, that Norway has now raised this to 25%?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u53	Madam President! Ownership matters, and the rights of the owner matter, and in connection with that, there is a very positive bill under discussion that extends the rights and influence of the owners of the limited liability company. I myself belong to the school — which seems to be quite large in this Chamber — that I would like to see more Finns enter the companies as owners, of course, both through their own entrepreneurship in smaller companies and then also in Finnish listed companies. We do need that so-called folk capitalism, even though capitalism sometimes seems like a bit of a bad word. Domestic ownership, blue and white ownership, we need more. I personally think it is a little bad that Finns still invest little more than in bank accounts. There's a lot of money being spent, and they're all right. I share the concern that consumer protection must of course be taken care of, but active investment, active saving is important and positive. But I would like to see more ordinary Finnish employees, ordinary entrepreneurs, ordinary students, pensioners as owners, especially in Finnish limited companies. Yes, it matters in the long run where the jobs are and where the production plants are. And in connection with that, this is an excellent performance. I would like to thank the Sipilä Government anyway, and now that it is represented here by the Minister for Finance, he is particularly pleased that, in my opinion, domestic ownership and small-scale equity have been promoted during this parliamentary term. This was a very fine thing for this stock savings account, which has been brought here for Parliament's consideration, and I hope that it will be developed in the Nordic direction, in the Swedish-Norwegian direction, that other financial products will be available in the future, not only for shares, but also for other financial products. Yes, we must encourage our citizens to save and invest and to do so in self-preservation. It brings stability and security to society.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u54	Mr President! Two thanks to Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo: First of all, this proposal — this proposal increases transparency about ownership — and secondly, thanks for passing through the stock savings account proposal. In this debate it became clear that 80 billion, which is quite a large sum, rests unused in bank accounts. In fact, this is not exactly the case; it is the question of who has access to this sum of 80 billion. It is now available to the banks, and the banks are actively using this amount, but when it is citizens' money, the 80 billion of them could equally be used productively by the citizens themselves. At the moment, when, on behalf of the public, it rests on bank accounts for the use of banks, the interest rate for this money is zero. This equity savings account is an extremely good way to encourage citizens to use it to invest their own wealth, and this equity savings account allows taxes to be paid at the point when money is taken out of the account. As far as my point of view is concerned, it is convenient in the sense that investment may, in a certain period of time, become a loss and, in a certain period of time, also a profit, and then you can determine for yourself, according to your own needs, when you raise money from it and then pay taxes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u55	Then, Minister, would you like to speak? Is that enough for two minutes?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u56	Mr President! Two minutes is enough. First of all, thank you for your contributions. First of all, this remuneration policy: Mr Sarkkinen asked why it was not binding. This was considered for a long time, and there were two differences in the working group, but then we came to the conclusion that the advisory is a sufficiently strong instrument of steering, and yet the general meeting will be able to vote on the company's remuneration policy. The crucial point was that when the world changes rapidly and the company’s operating environment can change rapidly, it gives sufficient room for manoeuvre to a functioning management, that is to say, a government that has the responsibility to hire and work specifically for the CEO. This significantly strengthens the position of the general meeting, i.e. the shareholders, and perhaps this could be a sideline for the state companies, so that, if they wish — and I think they should be — the state owner can very strongly communicate his or her position in the remuneration policy through the general meeting as the owner and thus be able to set an example. I think this is essential. Mr Tavio then raised the issue of consumer protection. We actually improved investor protection in MiFID I regulation. This concern, which you raised, is quite right and has been addressed through the reform of the legislation. Apart from that, I know that both the Ministry of Finance officials and the Financial Supervisory Authority are very careful to ensure that when investment products are sold, the investor actually gets all and all the right and necessary information about actual costs and the quality of the investment. Mr President, perhaps this is enough at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u57	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u58	Madam President! I now present to Parliament the Act on the amendment of Article 9 of the Income Tax Act. This is simply about facilitating investment in fund funds, which is to remove tax obstacles to accessing foreign capital and increase the competitiveness of the venture capital sector in Finland, i.e. to obtain foreign investments in Finland. This ‘fund of funds’hearst complexly but itis a fund which collects funds This is a procedure used very commonly in the international capital markets and also in Finland, and we must be competitive in this respect. It is a question of dismantling barriers and of raising capital in Finland and of Finland being competitive. It is not a question of new tax reductions or tax advantages but of simplifying and making Finland more attractive.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u59	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u60	Mr President! This proposal would change the tax treatment of foreign private equity funds, i.e. funds investing in Finnish private equity funds. Finland has had the pleasure and the happiness of being Europe's top not the world leader in investments in start-ups in recent years, and this development should be maintained and accelerated. Therefore, if there is a way and a procedure that prevents investment in Finnish companies, it must also be examined, in addition to a certain tax squeeze, whether such procedures are necessary, and then consider that if the damage caused to the overall logic of the tax system is to be tolerated, then it is necessary to amend the legislation, and that is what I think this time is all about. This proposal would have no material impact on tax revenues as the fund structures of the Funds have been avoided due to this current tax treatment. It may have an impact on the ability of Finnish companies to raise capital, particularly in terms of positive effects. On the other hand, it should be borne in mind that the impact of taxation on investment in excess is relatively small, and the proposal does not directly affect tax treatment, since the same tax treatment has previously been granted by a different investment structure, but, on the other hand, we have no reason to encourage or even force complex investment problems just because legislation forces it. Therefore, the proposal can be welcomed as it will make investment tax treatment more equitable and will not be particularly substantial in terms of the tax base. However, the question of what kind of tax base leakage is related to investment funds in general and to venture capital funds may also need to be raised in this context. After all, the majority of investments in private equity funds have been made in real estate investments, and these investments are often not taxed in Finland when it comes to an institutional investor. Therefore, the tax base generated by venture capital funds could be strengthened by extending the tax liability of foreign institutional investors in line with the income generated in Finland as in the case of investment funds, which is related to the Government's proposal of 308/2018. This leakage is completely essential and an essential part of the SDP's tax programme and the alternative budget, so I would like to highlight these three key proposals: (1) the withholding tax on dividends for foreign and other tax-exempt entities — to which Mr Tavio referred earlier. 2) Taxation of income from real estate investments in Finland. 3) Income tax on interest paid on tax havens. First, this withholding tax on dividends from institutional investors and other partially exempt entities: As we know, foreign institutional investors do not pay tax on dividends collected here in Finland either when the investment is made through a venture capital fund. Income cannot be taxed later either, as beneficiaries of foreign funds generally do not live in Finland. This is an important issue because foreign institutional investors own approximately half the value of the shares on the Helsinki Stock Exchange and have benefited fully from, for example, a reduction in corporate tax, while the dividend tax on small investors was then tightened. Associate Professor Tomi Viitala of Aalto University presented to foreign funds and other entities exempt from dividend taxes a moderate dividend tax of around 5%, which would be the ultimate withholding tax. According to the formula used by Professor Viitala, we have estimated that it will generate tax revenues of around EUR 400 million for the state. The estimated fork is from 250 to about 500 million. In Germany, the corresponding tax rate is 15% and puts fund investments on a more equal footing with direct equity investments. Therefore, such a solution, adapted to all funds on an equal footing, would also be more beneficial for public finances than for many other options and would, in line with the principles of good tax policy, allow for a corresponding reduction in the dividend tax paid by small investors, for example, from the current 25.5% to 20%. I will then return, if necessary, to the withholding tax on interest paid on the tax base for real estate investment and on tax havens.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u61	Mr President! This is good legislation insofar as this enables investment in Finnish companies from abroad and thus its growth. So far, we have had, as a rule, pension companies and other large investors decentralise their own investments so that the tools are used globally and thus the investor's future is secured in such a way that the risks of one country are not cumulated with one investor. But then investments abroad in Finland have such obstacles, such as the fact that, when most of these venture capital funds exist in Finland, they, through the funds of the funds, have not been able to invest in Finnish companies and that is why the funding has not been obtained. This will certainly improve the possibility, because indeed, as has been pointed out here, Finnish companies, especially such growth companies, are very happy to invest, even from the East or the West. This is just the kind of legislation that is appropriate at this time. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u62	Madam President! This proposal will facilitate the acquisition of foreign capital in Finland and investments in Finland, and thus the development of our capital markets, and thus the creation of new jobs in Finland and the prosperity of our national economy, so it is a very positive thing and it is easy to support. Let us hope that it will be brought forward from the committees during this busy spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u63	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Transport and Communications must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u64	Madam President! This is the government's proposal for a law on the use of heavy goods vehicles and for certain related laws, i.e. the so-called vignette — at last, one might say. This is the objective set out in the Government Programme, for which form has been applied for during this Government term. Why this has taken place has been due to the fact that there is an issue of EU law which is open to interpretation. This proposal has revealed uncertainty as to whether the proposed vehicle tax compensation for domestic lorries and the exclusion of light lorries from the road user tax are acceptable for EU law. The government therefore considers it justified for the Constitutional Committee to assess the scope of national legislation in this respect from the point of view of EU law. But the matter is: we are proposing a new road tax for heavy lorries. According to the draft law, heavy lorry traffic would in future pay a road tax, but its vehicle tax would decrease at the same time. In other words, this would be carried from lorries and combinations of vehicles with a total mass of more than 12 tonnes. The tax would apply to vehicles registered in Finland and abroad. This tax amount would be between 400 and 1222 euro for the year of use according to the vehicle emission Similarly, if we were to reduce the vehicle tax, which of course applies to domestic transport, then this will bring benefits for the domestic carrier and the motorist. I consider this to be very fair because, nevertheless, responsibility for the state of the road is at home for the construction of infrastructure. That is why I think this is justified. I do not think that the competition law perspective is contrary to this in terms of EU law, and I also believe that this is fair. This has been considered so important that we want to go through this process, and I really hope that this proposal will pass through a constitutional and EU legislative assessment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u65	Then let's go to the list of speakers. Does the chairman of the committee wish to make a reply at this stage? — Congressman Jalonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u66	Mr President! This comes to the Committee on Transport and Communications for an opinion, but this problem and interpretation of EU legislation is indeed what has been thought about here. I myself have also been involved in the preparation process and have been thinking along the way about a similar model, which is used in France, for example, a professional diesel system. The commercial diesel system lowers the price of fuel in professional transport. And when we know that a reduction in the price of one cent will have a major impact, we shall be considering this matter in greater detail in the committee. Is the Minister familiar with this? If not, then the discussion will be happy to continue in more detail at later stages.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u67	Is there any willingness at this point to speak in the debate? We could take a few here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u68	Mr President! I too am very pleased that there is finally a vignette charge for heavy traffic and, in particular, for heavy foreign traffic. This has been lacking for us for a long time, and it is high time we made it available. Almost all other EU Member States already have similar systems in place. The Finnish entrepreneur has been disadvantaged compared to other EU countries. I am also pleased that the proposal is based on the fact that the increased tax burden on domestic lorries is fully compensated by a reduction in the power tax. As such, it is in line with what the alternative budget of the Finns of Finland suggests. If compensation were made only in part, the increase in costs would be reflected in the price of the product transported directly. The risk is, as the Minister mentioned, that the proposed vignette model is interpreted by the EU only as discriminatory and therefore discriminatory in nature against foreign lorries. I would like to ask the Minister: how much danger do you see that the EU is raising the infringement procedure against Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u69	Mr President! Thank you for this proposal, which has now been a little bounced up on many occasions this season, that it will or will not come, and now it is a good thing that, in the last few metres, this proposal was brought here to Parliament, which is to say thank you for it. This is also about the fairness experienced by hauliers. However, those who work elsewhere in Europe also pay such vignettes or similar charges in very many countries, and also in Finland there are many foreign trucks and also Russian trucks from outside the EU, especially in Eastern Finland, which pay nothing at all. So this show is really good. But that is what I would have liked to ask, since I have not kept up with it: is there still the problem that if the car is sold in the middle of the year, this tax will not be refunded for the whole year, or did it leave the problem of whether it has been fixed here?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u70	Madam President! This Government proposal is based on the fact that the vignette charge, the vignette tax, is also included in Sipilä's Government Programme and also in the tax policy guidelines made in the spring 2018 spending limits debate. Thank you, Minister Orpo, for finally and finally having this government proposal here. The Government's proposal is primarily about fairness and improving the competitiveness of Finnish heavy goods transport to the same level as foreign heavy goods transport when it travels in Finland. It is also a question of making heavy foreign traffic pay for Finnish road use. Personally, I would like to see any way in which these euros can now be allocated, some EUR 3.5 million a year, precisely to the transport sector, to improve the roads. There's a need for euros. Thank you again, Minister Orpo, for finally having this issue here. This is what the Centre Party has wanted for the entire term of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u71	Madam President! There has been a broad consensus in the government groups that this should be promoted. It has been a question of what is the most sensible way and, as has been said about the Minister's speech, there are problems here too, but we still have to take this forward. From transport companies to all of us representatives there has certainly been clear feedback that it is not right that vignette is already in use in many other countries, much of Europe, but then not in Finland. It also makes sense, of course, to compensate domestic vehicles for this tax, but it is now a question of whether it is done in part or in full. Yes, on the basis of all fairness, it should be done in full, but this infringement procedure with regard to the EU, with regard to EU law, is then an important issue. I would like to ask the Minister, when the laws are due to enter into force at the beginning of 2021, whether they would be possible to enter into force earlier or whether this infringement procedure means leaving such an adequate period in which this issue can be dealt with. As a critical representative of the EU, I believe it is right that we should go to an infringement procedure, even if we do so, so that Finland and Finnish hauliers get justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u72	Mr President! It is indeed worth thanking that the government has produced this proposal and it is here when it was already written in the government programme about four years ago. As such, this model is all right, but it would seem that the refund system provided to domestic operators through commercial diesel would be fairer, i.e. tied to the amount of use of the vehicle, to the extent that it burns diesel on our roads. This model, chosen by the government, which is a return linked to a fixed vehicle tax, is not treated fairly. Those who drive a lot are, in a way, in a different position than those who drive less. Has it been thought that this commercial diesel could be the basis for compensation?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u73	Madam President! When you have a place to thank, you should thank me. There are countless advantages to this bill. One is that the tax will now also bring foreign operators to bear the cost of road use, which will certainly improve the competitiveness of Finnish operators. Statistics on foreign traffic will improve. To date, the volume and driving performance of foreign transport, which caused the dispute, are more transparent with regard to taxation, and at least this will not have an adverse effect on the fight against the shadow economy, on the contrary. It is also very welcome that, according to the proposal, the non-payment of the tax will result in a halt to transport until the tax has been paid and no attempt is made to recover it from abroad. But of course there are these challenging aspects, one of which has already been discussed here, which means that this proposal is problematic for EU law and can lead to complaints before the European Court of Justice, and it is of course important to clarify these issues. And, of course, it is also true that many people feel that this will certainly have higher profits than the performance estimates,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u74	Mr President! In this connection too, I should like to thank the government for the fact that many governments, before this government, have promised to make a proposal for this road tax on heavy lorries, but there have been no proposals. Of course, we are dealing with and making a report in the Committee on Finance and its tax section, and there is the opportunity and necessity to study this matter thoroughly. But I would like to ask you two questions that have been raised by professional drivers. The second is this entry into force, which would therefore not take place until the beginning of 2021. What are the problems with the information system that take so long? And the other one: I remember that when we were doing a government program in the economic group in Smolna, it was said that this compensation for Finnish professional drivers would be granted through fuel tax. What has led to this change in the fact that it is now being introduced through a motor vehicle tax on propulsion power? These are the questions I'd like to ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u75	Mr President! It is, in a way, a bit crazy that the Committee on Budgets is here as the Committee on Budgets, and this will be dealt with carefully in the tax section when the expected tax revenue effects of the proposal itself are very modest if this is to be achieved as planned. In fact, if there were a net gain of 6 million, 2.5 million would already go only to collection costs. Of course, the real issues here are specifically related to transport, transport infrastructure and its organisation, and then, on the one hand, these constitutional problems and the problems of EU law, which have already been touched upon and which are important, and, in this respect, of course, the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is important. I would just like to say that there is one point about this which has not yet come up, that before long, however, the tax model for transport will be different from what has been presented here about the vignette. The international approach seems to be to move towards kilometer-based taxes, but surely the taxation of transport as a whole must be improved, which will be a major development challenge over the next few years.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u76	Mr President! I'm sure the government won't be self-loving if I'm complimenting you, too. This proposal has been awaited for years and decades, and now it is here in the Chamber, and that means that foreign lorries also take part in tolls. As has been said from many mouths, this applies to combinations of lorries and vehicles weighing more than 12,000 pounds. The additional costs of the Vinjet will then be compensated for the heavy domestic traffic by reducing the power tax. It was mentioned that last year heavy lorries made some 600,000 border crossings to Finland, which is no small thing. After all, taxes are imposed on the basis of tax returns, and the tax can be paid either for one week, month or year, and, as has been said here, the highest annual fee is good EUR 1100. That always depends on how many axles these cars have. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u77	Mr President! It's a very good tax bill. When this year is about EUR 1200, a month is 100 to 20, a week is about 60 and a day, I can't remember whether it was 20 and, in the past, there has been a strong debate on this with transport companies for the eight years I have been representing, and their presentations have been in thousands of euros, I would have asked the Minister how they got to these figures. That section on taxation in the Committee on Finance is probably talking about this compensation, about the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, about this amount of tax and then about this delay in entry into force until 21. Can we get a little explanation for these things at the beginning?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u78	I will give you four more answers. Then, Minister, if he wants a brief reply, but then let us go on the list of speakers. Representatives Jalonen, Laiho, Ojala-Niemelä and Anttila.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u79	Mr President! The first speech failed to thank us for the fact that, after many complicated and difficult discussions, this was indeed brought here. Thank you for that. This has indeed been, I believe, the will of the whole Chamber for a long time and, above all, the will of the operators in the industry, and this is something that needs to be dealt with. These potential problems with EU legislation: as I have already mentioned in my first speech, there are models in Europe which, however, pass EU legislation. For example, I believe that the commercial diesel system must always be kept in line and consider, in a way, with plan B in the back pocket, how to proceed if problems are detected.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u80	Mr President! Today we are burdened by a huge number of heavy vehicles, especially those from abroad, and many of them are in very poor condition. There must also be a user charge for using our roads, and this, at least some of it, can then be directed to road maintenance. In order to improve the competitiveness of domestic companies, this reform of the introduction of a road tax on heavy lorries is very welcome. Today, when there is a great deal of constant demand for reductions in taxation, that is to say a reduction in the various alves, it is also very welcome that there should be additional taxes on something, so this road tax is very welcome. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u81	Madam President! To some extent, we have had a rather paradoxical situation that we in Finland have roads in such poor condition, but no fees have yet been charged. You don’t have to go to the north like Norway: there are road charges, there are bridge and tunnel charges — all charges are charged, whatever is possible. I therefore welcome the introduction of this vignette charge for foreign lorries too. I have a slight concern that, when this came at the end of the parliamentary term, will it be possible for this to be dealt with in the Constitutional Committee, because, as we know, there is congestion there now. But I hope so, and pressure in the direction that this will be dealt with. The development of transport connections is in the interests of the whole of Finland, and I hope that this funding will then be directed towards the maintenance of the road network.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u82	Mr President! I share the thanks that have been given to the Government and the Minister here. Indeed, this is a proposal in accordance with the Government Programme and necessary. My message is that, now that the committee is starting to deal with this, please find out whether this entry into force could be brought forward. This is indeed necessary, even because then we will have a little equality with other countries, as has been very well-founded here in previous speeches. Then, at the same time, I have a great deal of concern about what we will be doing to maintain this infrastructure, because Finland is a very large country and our natural resources are widely scattered around Finland. It is the primary road network that is particularly important. Does the Minister now have any reservations as to how to deal with this issue in the future? It does not come through these taxes, because they are used as a general cover at least at the moment. We need to find ways to finance the lower road network so that our natural resources can be processed in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u83	And then, Minister, is that enough for two minutes?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u84	Mr President! Let's try. A few comments: First of all, this commercial diesel: It was a problem that it would then have been targeted at all the professional driving, even bus and coach transport. Then this would have expanded so much that it was perceived as problematic. And all in all, of the many different models that have been on the table, which have been carried out with many representatives over the years, over the months, this has been considered to be the one where we can best influence transport towards what we want and where there is the best chance of success in relation to the Constitution or EU competition law. Mr Taavitsainen then asked about this if the vehicle was sold in the middle of the year. This is now built in such a way that it can be paid for a day, a week, a month, a year, or period of time. Of course, it gives a lot of room for manoeuvre and a lot of planning for the time it takes. If, however, the vehicle is sold in the middle of this period, then the fee paid will be passed along with the vehicle, i.e. it will then appear in the price. As far as these figures, which Mr Suutari asked, are concerned, they leave the vignette regulation, that is to say, we have tried to get as close to those limits as possible. That's how you get to the tax levels. This is now the case, according to estimates, to raise 34 million, of which the domestic share is 28 million, and the tax will be reduced by EUR 28 million. In other words, this will be fully restored to domestic transport. As far as the timetable is concerned, President-in-Office, I very much welcome the fact that when you hear from the Tax Administration in committee, you will be going through this issue again, and I wish it strength and success.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u85	Then let's go to the list of speakers. We have about ten minutes for this theme, and then we change the subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u86	Mr President! There's a lot of good incense here for this bill, so I'm going to cut down on this speech for that too. I will, of course, bring your greetings from the north, where vignette of this kind has really been expected. Thank you, the Ministry of Finance and the Minister, for finally getting it here. At the end of that, I will talk about how possible it will be because of the crampedness of our Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It's probably pretty challenging. I hope this happens, but I doubt it. In Lapland, the main rivers from the north come from Norway as well as from the northern mines, and foreign traffic there is very strong. In a way, it has been unfortunate for Finnish transport entrepreneurs to regret this in the sense that these foreign competitors have had an advantage in this regard. Of course, even our roads are not in the best possible condition in the north. The roads on those highways are in my career, especially as those big mining areas north of Sodankylä and Kittilä are thought of. On the other hand, if we look at the situation in Europe as a whole, road tolls and tolls are commonplace in Europe and, as the representative said, the situation in Norway is excellent. They know how to collect fees. I would also like to express my particular thanks to Mr Hongisto, who raised this very strongly during the previous parliamentary term and then for his part — not just him — made the situation move forward so that we can now get to the point where we can assess whether this payment is going to be true or not. Madam President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs is in a tight spot, and this bill is certainly the last one to be discussed there. Not because it's not important, but because there's a lot to do. As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I personally believe that this bill will go through.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u87	Madam President! As the Minister has pointed out, it is very important that this vignette should be fully compensated for domestic vehicles. Of course, it is very important to note that this will come into force — in a way only — in 2021. The Minister did not respond directly to it now, but I suspect that it is now a question of going into this infringement procedure with regard to the EU, then it may even take years. The representative, Mr Kankaanniemi, raised the cost burden that this could impose on some hauliers. It is estimated that for domestic lorries the tax burden would remain at the current level, but for each vehicle, it is true that the tax may rise or decrease slightly, but in its entirety it will remain broadly unchanged. It is also important to note here that in a large part of Europe this is already in place. There is nothing unusual about this. It is only an issue of EU law and whether this credit can be fully made or, as the EU Commission apparently sees it, only partially. Yes, the blue people’s starting point has always been — and I am pleased that the whole government is now — that full is the only right solution for Finnish transport operators, and then we will be ready if the EU Commission considers that even this infringement procedure will go, and then we will see what the legal assessment is. We, as a government and as a Finnish lobbyist in the EU, must also be able to move on with such a proposal. I hope that, when the Committee on Transport and Communications deals with this issue, this issue of commercial diesel will be considered very carefully and, if it is considered appropriate to go further, for example, a statement would be taken to begin an investigation into the introduction of professional diesel.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u88	Mr President! According to the old saying, the years are not brothers with one another, and the same saying may also be used for governments, since I asked the previous government in my written question on 10 April 2014: ‘What measures does the government intend to take,so that Finland also makes use of the eurovignette that I have said,when the combination of heavy goods vehicles with non-residents does not make use of the Finnish roads? “ In response to my question,the Minister for Transport Finland is far from a key market and intra-country transport is long. This is why Finland has wanted to keep the tax burden on heavy traffic as low as possible.” The new government and the new ministers have considered the matter on the basis of new transport policy objectives and ended up in the debate on the spending limits in April 18 with a draft law on heavy traffic charging. The fee would be limited to heavy-duty cars of more than 12 tonnes, and, best of all, the charge would be compensated for domestic heavy-duty traffic by reducing the vehicle's power tax. The amendment would not increase the tax revenues of the State, so compensation would be fully implemented. This, in turn, would significantly balance the competitive situation between domestic transport operators and the combination of low-cost foreign vehicles. I and many other representatives have been told directly by transport companies that the day-to-day activities are becoming more unprofitable, and many entrepreneurs have also driven their vehicles to the depot to wait for better times. Mr President! Now the better times seem to be for domestic transport companies too, because with this bill the government wants to support domestic entrepreneurs and in this way also to ensure that Finnish roads are still operated by combinations of vehicles owned in Finland. I also see the existence of domestic transport capacity as a security of supply factor. Here in the country of long distances, along gravel roads, it is vital that goods move and maintenance play also during times of crisis. This operation of crisis times will only be ensured if there is sufficient domestic vehicle fleet to be controlled by domestic hands. Mr President! I too share the thanks for the excellent government proposal and support this from the bottom of my whole heart. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u89	Madam President! This is a new law on the road tax on heavy lorries and combinations of vehicles, i.e. the so-called vignette charge. This government proposal has been wanted for years. This was already hoped for during the previous parliamentary term, as vignette is already in use in several EU countries and now, hopefully, in Finland as well. Road tax would be levied on lorries and combinations of vehicles with a total mass of more than 12 tonnes, and the tax would apply to vehicles registered in Finland and abroad. For domestic heavy-duty lorries, the road-use tax would be compensated for by reducing their propulsion tax and changing the tax structure. I sincerely hope that we all agree that that fee should be fully compensated for domestic heavy traffic. The city centre, as well as Finnish rubber cycle traffic, has long had the goal of making heavy foreign traffic pay for using Finnish routes. It has been hoped for all over Finland, especially in Eastern Finland and Northern Finland, and this has now been achieved. This Government proposal is based on Sipilä's Government Programme and also on the spring 2018 spending limits debate, where tax policy guidelines were drawn up. Above all, and above all, it is a question of justice. The centre — and I hope that this whole hall — wants to improve the competitiveness of Finnish heavy traffic and to get Finnish trucks on the same line as foreign trucks and foreign trucks to pay for the use of our roads and bridges. There's a lot of need for repairs on the road network. The biggest impact on the neutrality of competition is on the freight side. This government proposal has already been hoped for throughout this term of government, and indeed it has been a stumbling block in that Ministry of Finance that it has not come more quickly. Personally, I would have liked this to have been earlier so that this matter would not be prolonged. I sincerely hope that this issue can be dealt with quickly. Let us hope that this issue can be brought to an end so quickly that the law will come into force before the beginning of 2021.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u90	At this stage, the debate and the proceedings will be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u91	We will now resume the debate on item 5, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u92	Mr President! The proposal proposes to introduce a new law on road tax for heavy goods vehicles. As a result of the performance, heavy truck traffic would start to pay road traffic tax from 2021 onwards. The proposed road user tax applies to lorries weighing more than 12 tonnes. Personally, I would have liked to see lorries with a total mass of between 3.5 and 12 tonnes included in the vignette system. This proposal will increase taxes on domestic lorries by around EUR 28 million. However, the tax burden will be offset by a reduction in the driving power tax equivalent to the euro for domestic hauliers. The tax also applies to foreign vehicles with an annual level of between EUR 400 and EUR 1122 according to the Euro emission category and the axle number. The daily tax would be EUR 8 without differentiation. Estimated tax revenue per year is EUR 28 million for domestic vehicles and EUR 6 million for foreign lorries. However, the overall impact of the proposal is plus minus zero, as the additional costs for Finnish truck owners will be compensated by a reduction in the power tax. For individual vehicles, the most common changes are a few hundred euros in one direction or another per year. Of all the older vehicles, the increase in costs may be even higher. These tolls for foreign lorries have been attempted for years, and I am very pleased that the government finally brought a bill to Parliament. Now, even in Finland, foreign lorries are able to contribute to the maintenance costs of the road network, as they once consume it. Such charges are quite normal elsewhere in Europe, so why not also in Finland? Sweden, for example, has had a vignette for heavy traffic since 1998. Transport imposes a burden on the road structure, which is reflected in the cost of road maintenance. In Estonia and England, vignette yield is earmarked for road maintenance, and this should be the case in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u93	Mr President! Of course, this vignette fee is a good, well-expected and supported bill, but one or two ideas must be made about this waiting, because this has indeed been expected. In addition to demanding this by several representatives in particular, the matter has been recorded in the program of this government from the beginning. Against this background, I find it very strange that the government is only now presenting this proposal in the run-up to the elections. Hopefully this has nothing to do with this delay. The old people say it's better late than it was then. Ten years has now been expected, if that is enough, and a few more years are expected before the change takes effect in practice. I do not understand why this is because, after all, the Finnish politician has traditionally been able to impose fees and the officials have been able to charge them if they want to, but they have been found to impose and collect payments.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u94	Mr President! I shall continue in much the same spirit as Mr Mäkelä in his previous speech. Indeed, this bill provides for a law on the road tax on heavy lorries, the so-called vignette charge, which is widely used in many countries of the world. However, the law would not come into force until two years later, and, as Mr Mäkelä said earlier, there has been a long delay, and I believe that this additional delay is unnecessary. This tax would apply to lorries and combinations of vehicles of more than 12 tonnes registered both in Finland and abroad, and what is good would at the same time compensate Finnish transport operators for this payment by lowering the driving power tax on lorries. Mr President! This bill is well founded and must also be carried out in the spirit of the proposal made by the Finns of Finland in their alternative budget last autumn. The only wonder, however, is, in fact, why this good proposal, which is also a clear record of the Government Programme, has not been brought before Parliament in the past but has been pledged for almost four years during this parliamentary term and is being brought right here in the final stages. Unfortunately, the government's delay in this has led to the free consumption of the Finnish road network by foreign transport companies, lorries and trucks, and this has led to countless Finnish transport companies suffering from unfair competition. Some of them have had to go out of business. It may be that even with this good bill, when it comes into force at the beginning of 2021, these transport companies will no longer get on their feet.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u95	Mr President! This government proposal on heavy road tolls for lorries from abroad is a very welcome government proposal. This has been long overdue, and now that it is brought into this house, whether it be the first legislative proposals or even the last ones of this parliamentary term, it is all the more important that this law be put into effect. Of course, the fact that the law will not come into force until a few years later is partly understandable, even in the light of the fact that it is technically a very demanding exercise, when time has to be in order to get these systems to play. I would like to raise two points which, in my view, are too little in this debate: The second is this neutrality of competition. Today, when a truck from abroad, for example Russia, comes to Finland, it drives practically with tax-free fuel, cheaper work costs, without any obligations towards Finland, a tank full of fuel and an affordable driver on the wheel. There is no way in which a Finnish truck contractor can compete — no chance of competition. Then there is another case, which is why it is only fair, since we are in the European Union: in Europe this procedure is quite normal, and there are all kinds of tolls and bridge charges. If you leave Finland to drive your own car somewhere on the Mediterranean shore, even though Monaco is taking you through Europe, you should book cash with a large amount of money or a working credit card to get to your destination. So this is an extremely good thing for this too. In this house I have listened to some of the critical speeches made by some of my colleagues in that café about this bill, and I find it difficult to understand such a procedure. Look, ladies and gentlemen, when you travel on Finnish roads — when representatives tend to use the road network efficiently across Finland — the biggest damage is caused by the Finnish road network. Those heavy-duty traffic tracks are clearly visible. For example, there is this deformity on the roads of Eastern Finland, which means that heavy traffic breaks down the side of the road, and putting them in order is not a cheap job. Therefore, in order to achieve this neutrality of competition and to make foreign trucks pay even a small amount of the consumption they impose on the Finnish road network, it is absolutely vital that this bill is dealt with quickly and will enter into force. Whether this is an absolute good proposal, no one knows about us, but Parliament has a habit of legislating, and if we have done a bit of an imprecise or bad law, the next Parliament will, of course, always have the opportunity to correct it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u96	Mr President! I have also spoken in favour of this issue for years and have made proposals to introduce road user charges for foreign trucks in Finland. It is good that Finland is now aligning with other EU countries and charging a road user charge for heavy foreign traffic. Thus, Finnish transport entrepreneurs are in an equal competitive position with others. We have the absurd situation that we have so many of these poor roads and yet foreign truck traffic which consumes this road surface. For example, the western border from Tornio to Kilpisjärvi, Highway 21, is in a destitute condition. There are frost damage and balsam damage, and the largest group of users are Norwegian trucks. There, dozens of trucks drive salmon from Norway to Helsinki every day, and this is packed on a plane and then flown to Asian countries. This money from road user charges should be allocated to road maintenance, and it is a good thing that it should be compensated for to domestic entrepreneurs by lowering the power tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u97	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u98	Mr President! Today, I have a proposal for a law on customer charges for social welfare and health services. The current legislation in this area dates back to 92 years and is, in many respects, obsolete. In fact, the need for legislative reform has been on the agenda for several years, and several attempts have also been made. In fact, a working group was already set up during the last government term to prepare customer charges for municipal service housing and the reform proposals for them, but the government proposal was not submitted at the time. The need for overall reform has rightly been highlighted, among other things, by the Parliamentary Ombudsman, the Chancellor of Justice and also by the supervisory authority, the municipalities and many citizens. The outdated provisions of the current legislation and the provisions which are completely lacking in it are causing huge problems of interpretation and large differences in customer charges between regions and people on the ground. The structure of the legislation itself is also obsolete, and there are provisions in the regulation which should, in accordance with the Constitution, in fact be at the level of the law. The legal protection of customers has not been properly implemented, as the legislation has not sufficiently ensured the priority of reducing or eliminating customer charges in relation to income security and also the guidance on redressing customer charges has not been sufficient. It has also been unfair that customer fee legislation has been completely lacking in the provisions on charges for service housing and that legislation does not in any way know and recognise new forms of service or digital solutions. Mr President! In Finland, social and health care is currently financed mainly by tax revenue, statutory and voluntary insurance, as well as employer and customer fees. The role of customer fees in 2017 for this big cash pool was that it covered 7 per cent of the costs. The social welfare and health care fees apply to a large proportion of Finns, as almost half of our people pay some of the social welfare fees each year. However, there are significant differences in the allocation of payments per population group. Of course, this also shows the role of occupational health care. According to a study report published by the Prime Minister's Office in April 2018, most of the payments will be paid to a small proportion of the population. A tenth of customers pay almost half of all equal customer charges. In income-related payments, the corresponding figure was 44 per cent and in oral health care 30 per cent. Mr President! The third paragraph of Article 19 of the Constitution imposes an obligation on public authorities to ensure adequate social and health services for everyone and to promote the health of the population. Moreover, the key principle is that the right of a person to receive the services he or she needs should not depend on his or her ability to pay. Services must also be secured for those who have reduced their ability to pay. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has often drawn attention to this. The Government proposal presented today therefore proposes to introduce a new law in its entirety in the face of this large package of customer fees. This takes into account changes in the operating environment for the service system, but also changes in the structure, i.e. a new regional social and health care reform. The proposed law would lay down the charges for services falling under the responsibility of organising the province, including the manner in which charges are imposed and levied, and for services free of charge to the customer. Customer fees are always collected by the province, not by the service provider. In addition, the proposal would provide for a restrictive cap on charges, a reduction in charges and non-payments, as well as a more precise regulation on appeals. This would also include provisions on missing customer charges in existing legislation, such as services housing and distance services. A substantial change is therefore also the fact that customer charges will be fully regulated at the level of the law in the future. This strengthens the equality of people and the clarity of the dossier. In fact, under the current legislation, municipalities can charge for all social security services, unless there is a specific legal provision for free of charge. Contrary to what is currently the case, in this new proposed law, a fee should only be charged for services provided for in the proposed law. This clarifies, harmonises and enhances customer status. The customer would pay equal fees for the service that falls under the responsibility of the organisation of the province, regardless of how the service was produced or arranged. The customer would therefore also pay a fee in accordance with the Customer Fees Act when using a customer voucher or a service realised with a personal budget. Only a service which is not used or not cancelled could be charged by the service provider himself, otherwise the charges will be collected by the province, as I have already stressed, Mr President. On the basis of their autonomy, regions would continue to have the right to charge lower fees or not to charge any fees in accordance with the customer fees legislation. In any case, the regions have a great deal of decision-making power, and the proposal is based on the assumption that the charges would be reasonable and would not prevent the use of the necessary services. This presentation does not include any separate flat-rate increases in payments. The provisions on free-of-charge services would continue to be maintained in law and their justifications clarified. The most significant extension of the free movement of persons in the proposal is that the provision of medical care services is entirely free of charge for minors.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u103	Let's get a big debut right here. Since we now only have 30 minutes on this subject, I think we should spend the whole time on this debate. I would ask you to reserve the floor. — — — — First of all, the chairman of the committee, Mr Kiuru, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u104	Mr President! The Minister said quite well that in Finland equality is not as good as it should be in terms of customer fees. That is where reform is needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u107	Let's stay a minute and get as many chances as we can.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u108	Madam President! This law does not state, nor did the Minister say, that it is necessary to implement it precisely in such a way that the ceiling should be abolished in relation to basic health care charges, but that the province itself can decide how to collect them. These are maximum payments, and I personally welcome the fact that this has now been introduced into systematic practice, in a country as a whole, in terms of uniform payments as well as in terms of income-related payments. What is really great about this is that health promotion is free of charge, then vaccination is free of charge, the health services of minors are free of charge, preventive services, as I have just said, and the services relating to mental health and substance abuse problems are also free of charge. Currently, municipalities vary greatly as to what is institutional care, which is service housing. This will harmonise:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u109	Madam President! It is very good that this bill has finally been brought to Parliament. The jungle of service charges for the elderly is now being clarified. The law was supposed to come in connection with the Act on Elderly Services, but the Social Democratic Minister did not receive it. Now, at last, there is provision for a resource in service housing, which is welcome. I am delighted that children’s health care is finally being made free of charge. This is a major public health act. A major reform is also the inclusion of oral health care charges in the ceiling. Poor oral health has been a key cause of health inequalities, and now those payments can be included in the ceiling. This is an excellent reform. And it is really good that the law regulates the matters on which payment can be made. This does not allow future social areas and provinces to invent fees themselves, and it also repeals the argument raised by the opposition that the social security reform should be financed through customer charges. This is certainly not going to happen. But the fees are high in the Nordic countries, and I hope that in the next parliamentary term,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u110	Mr President! We have dealt with these issues many times in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and the Constitution really requires that adequate social and health services be guaranteed for everyone. We're gonna have to think about the funding. I am thinking of the fact that some people accumulate these payments, as has been pointed out in previous speeches, and the province receives only a certain amount of funding from the state. Now this is where Congressman Sarkomaa said that customer fees will not fix this. But I suspect this is the way it's going to be. But then I'm gonna ask you where it's coming from. The county can't tax it, you don't think it's done with customer fees. Is it the quality or availability of service? The province cannot provide those services if it does not have enough money. And when I look at the points in the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, there will still be some problems for the municipalities. But I cannot give any more opinion when we are in the middle of the Constitutional Committee, but yes I am.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u111	Mr President! In my view, the wider population bases in the provinces will allow both the abolition of health centre fees and the consolidation of ceilings if the state does not drive the provinces into the financial crisis. I welcome the proposals to extend the ceiling and, above all, the free provision of medical care services for under 18-year-olds. However, I believe that it is wrong for public health and the national economy to charge fees for each medical and nursing visit to the health centre. If older people with a high level of illness and low incomes outside occupational health care pay for each medical or nurse visit to the health centre up to a ceiling of EUR 683, how will the health and well-being differences be reduced and how will the objective of reasonableness be achieved?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u112	Mr President! The main problem with this bill is that the improvements that will be made will in practice be financed by increasing the number of basic health care visits. The abolition of the ceiling on health centre fees will increase the annual expenditure of high-income low-income Finns by up to hundreds of euros. Since the use of health centre services has currently been free of charge in most Finnish municipalities after three visits, i.e. a total of EUR 61.80 has been paid, it will only be free of charge in the future when the entire annual ceiling is full, i.e. after EUR 683. This is not the direction in which basic health care payment practices should be developed in Finland. For a long time, the Left Alliance has insisted that health centre fees should instead be abolished throughout the country in order to facilitate access to care for low-income people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u113	Mr President, värderade talman! Nu föreslår regeringen att man ska slopa årsavgiften vid halsocentralerna och i stället bara ta i bruk avgift för engångsbesök.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u114	Mr President! This proposal on customer fees is a big package and it is of course a good thing that it has come to it that the services and preventive services of minors are free of charge, as well as that the possibility of reducing customer fees and the possibility of collecting them will be raised and will have to be prioritised in the future. But I find it very problematic that the possibility of removing the ceiling in health centre fees will become possible. Yes, these health center fees become a problem for many people, especially those who need a lot of services and those who are most deprived. I would have asked about this ceiling and the combination of ceilings: was there not any mention of that? It is also very challenging that all own resources are concentrated in that early year, and I would still ask: When some of the payments are determined on the basis of the ability to pay, for example in service housing, and at present it seems that a very large part of the income goes to these payments,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u115	Mr President! Yes, these health center fees have clearly moved people, namely, I too have been contacted so many times during this day. I would like to ask the Minister in How would you respond to these concerned questions? Will this law increase customer fees when it comes into force, and how will those who suffer will cope if the ceiling is EUR 683? And finally, will many sufferers and their families suffer financially if this bill goes through?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u116	Mr President! While the timetable for war is already very critical, the government is bringing new laws of war here for Parliament — not just any laws of war, but those which must also be assessed in the Constitutional Committee. This has been very striking for this government. It is difficult to assess the whole, and this is also the view of the experts from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u119	Mr President! It is indeed important that this bill on customer fees be reformed. I have to admit that, as a health professional, I sometimes get a little confused about the basis on which and what kind of fees we are charged. I believe that, in future, as a whole, at the level of the law, where payments are to be made, this will clarify the operation. Another thing that I am sure will clarify is that the person who collects the customer fee would be the customer's own province. In this way, the payment criteria will remain uniform and monitoring will be possible. I therefore consider it important that the impact of customer charges on the use of services, the concentration of the burden of payment and the functioning of social and health services could be better assessed in the future, and I believe that this legislative reform will enable this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u120	Mr President! This reform of the Consumer Fees Act has been and is a very important reform. When it comes to the poor and the low-income, the reduction and non-payment of customer charges, for example, will play a much stronger role. Of course it has been possible under current legislation, but that has not been used. Now there is an opportunity to use and will be. It is particularly important that young people are also taken into account, in other words, that minors are not covered by the fee. And those preventive services are also free of charge, that is important. The customer’s situation is also clarified in many respects as regards the determination of housing service charges. Now even those payments have been a so-called wild field of play for the municipalities of our country. Fortunately, this proposal was brought to Parliament, although the opposition now thinks it is too late, I do not think it is. It makes many things clearer and up-to-date. It is an example of the ability of this government to function and to take account of the change in society.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u121	President! Minister! Indeed, this attempt to harmonise payments is very much to be desired, and thank you for that. Indeed, this removal of the ceiling on interim payments from both medical and nursing visits is a very glaring pain and strikes those very elderly people. Last year alone, there was an increase in the number of defaults for people over the age of 65, and this is precisely the reason for these customer charges. We know that pensioner poverty is a flagrant problem at the moment, and we are talking about prevention. I would now like to ask the Minister how he justifies this proposal and, on the other hand, how these regular visits by the public health nurse can be distinguished from these so-called preventive visits.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u122	Mr President! In its opinion last May, the Committee on Finance and Social Affairs on social reform was fully agreed that this funding, which is coming from the state, will not be sufficient, for example in the early stages of Uusimaa, there will be a gap of 300 million. And now that this situation is being considered, the provinces will have to use all the means to earn other income, and so these reliefs and non-recovery are nothing more than talk at this stage. Today it became known that payment disruptions among people aged over 65 increased by 9 per cent last year. Now the government has made this model of abolishing this intermediate level, which means that it is these people over the age of 65 who are very ill who are going to be paid. Don't you think this is completely unreasonable? Why do you advocate such a policy that these, our fathers and mothers, who are in great need of services, suffer?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u123	Mr President! The representative Kankaanniemi is paying attention to an important issue as such, and the concern is certainly genuine and justified, but if you think of the large amount of public talk about the collection of customer fees through enforcement, then that is precisely where the largest group is at the moment, namely hospital and institutional care fees. It is precisely in this draft law that the objective is to strengthen the obligation of the provinces to reduce or waive charges. It is true, as Mrs Torvinen said, that this obligation has been there at the moment, but it will be strengthened with this legislative reform. Another important issue that has been discussed and widely agreed in this Chamber is the improvement of the status of veterans. This proposal would remove an additional front and veteran supplement from the income on which income-related payments are based, i.e. also for veterans. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u124	I would like to ask for answers this very time in response to the speech by Mr Kankaanniemi. The other replies will then come in their own order. — Mr Talja already asked for a reply during the speech by Mr Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u125	Thank you, Mr President. I would have drawn attention to this very point, to which Mr Elo drew attention, that the provision on the reduction and non-recovery of payments has been clearly strengthened. In fact, the customer must be informed of the possibility of applying for relief and the relief would be a priority in relation to income support. In other words, in this very large part, the province assumes responsibility for monitoring the ceiling which has been the responsibility of the customer at the moment, and in fact also assumes responsibility for informing the customer that relief can be granted for basic health care payments. This would then become the practice that would be implemented in practice in 21 years.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u126	Mr President! First of all, the Minister must be commended for harmonising the charges for living in services and for providing a free health service for persons under 18 years of age. But what Mr Talja said is that the maximum fees can then be decided in the provinces, it must be said that it is true that the maximum fees will become the new normal ones. You have to say it out loud. In Finland 1.9 million people of working age suffer from some long-term illness or disability. One in ten long - term ill people have had to leave their medicine without buying because there was no money. Now we are just them and, for example, the elderly with a lot of suffering, burdening them with the abandonment of this ceiling. 1 million visits exceeded three visits a year, i.e. more than 1 million visits. These people's payments are going to go up, and that's a mistake.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u127	At this stage of the debate, I will give my answer to the representatives of Alanko-Kahiluoto, Mustajärvi and Laiho. After these speeches, I will give the Minister a three-minute reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u128	Mr President! The truth is that this proposal, together with the government's social welfare bill, will weaken the position of a low-income person in Helsinki. We do not currently have any health centre fees in use in Helsinki, because we know that their collection is bureaucratic and creates a high threshold for the low-income, poor, rich person to seek early treatment. Now, the social welfare bill, which has been under-resourced from the outset, like the representative. Kankaanniemi well pointed out, will force other municipalities in Helsinki, among other things, to introduce customer charges that we do not now have, because the government has written in a social welfare bill that customer fees should be harmonised in the region. And when the war is under-resourced from the outset — the government cuts so much from it in principle, and the state is underfunded — and there is no right to tax in the provinces, it means that the provinces are forced to increase customer charges,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u129	Mr President! If you add together the combined effect of these different responsibilities, just under EUR 1600, and then relate it to what is, for example, the income of pensioners, then it is a two-month guarantee pension or an average one-month earnings-related pension. After all, it is a rather dramatic situation if one sixth of the person’s annual income is taken into account. But, Minister Saarikko, how is this exemption at regional level going in practice? How do you identify the needs of its customer and the fact that he is entitled to an exemption when it is already difficult to assess it at municipal level?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u130	Mr President! This bill of payments reform is really needed. Today, for example, there is a real jungle in service housing. The family and the residents themselves do not know what they will have to pay when moving into service housing. Similarly, there is a variety of possibilities. Yes, a person must also have access to something of his own when he is in 24 - hour care, such as foot care or sometimes going to a theater or buying a garment. At the moment, it has been brought to a very minimum. Another important issue is the extension of the ceiling to oral health care. This will reduce inequalities. Oral health is part of other health, a significant part of it, and it also affects sociality, how to get work, how to get relationships — if your teeth are in bad shape, it indirectly affects it too. The transfer of the ceiling to the province is also such a question of justice, which does not leave it to the individual to follow it himself. It is very important that children's health care be free of charge. Children are in an equal position regardless of the income level of their parents.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u131	Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u132	Thank you, Mr President. In my opinion, this House is showing that this legislative reform is a whole. There are details to be found, where one can say that this point is getting worse, and details about which one can say that someone’s position is improving. This may be, ladies and gentlemen, the reason why this proposal has never been brought before. It seems to me, Mr Guzenina, a little unfair that you are now saying that ‘the proposal ‘and the last one’ and ‘the most recent one’ are the work of the Constitutional Committee’. Point 1, my colleague: during your time this proposal was not brought; point 2: I think it is very right that this should be dealt with in a spirit of constitutionality, given that we are talking about services which are fundamental human rights. Representative Aalto, you were wondering why the government does not bring these basic services to people free of charge. I am not sure exactly what you meant by that, but I believe that your proposal for a EUR 100 gauge is something between EUR 100 and approximately EUR 400 million. How would you finance that, given Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, that neither Helsinki nor New Zealand will reduce the amount of social security money in the regional model? In the future, we will use more and more common funds in this country for war because more and more services are needed. And it is true that in the future Helsinki, Espoo, Vantaa and the whole of Uusimaa will be in an equal position, which may mean a change from the perspective of an individual citizen to a better or worse one, but it is called equality. I'm sure the transition phase is always sore. Mr President! I was delighted that you, some of you, raised the issue of elderly services. It is an area where feedback has been received and where it has always been difficult for the Ministry to take a stand, because the practices of municipalities have been so unequal. Now the situation is being clarified and it is also being avoided, perhaps to some extent, by the way in which the kind of sign on the roof affects people’s payments. I also regard this as a fair change in content for elderly services. The situation of low incomes has rightly been raised here. You can rest assured that I have given this a great deal of thought to the preparation of the proposal. The most important thing now is to take into account that this proposal does not aim to raise additional funds in the common fund by means of public service charges. It is also essential to note that, unlike today, this obliges the organiser of the service, i.e. the province, to more clearly inform the person of his entitlement to a payment allowance or a payment waiver, not to proceed with the transfer of these contributions to income support, which the person would actually have received as a result of his low income. An essential part of the low income perspective is also to take into account the fact that those areas of services are expanding, including oral health care, which are included in the ceiling. I still agree that the combination of ceilings is a worthy and worthy of consideration, but here is the overall reform of the proposal, everything that has been achieved so far. Mr President! The question was still raised as to what constitutes a preventive free-of-charge service compared to a paid health centre visit: a free-of-charge service is, for example, a maternity and child health clinic,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, the time window for dealing with this matter has been exhausted. However, I note that Mr Pekonen, of the members of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, has not just received the floor, which is why I will give him the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u134	Thank you, Speaker! This proposal has been expected and expected here in Parliament, especially because, in my opinion too, this proposal should have been dealt with together in the context of a major social welfare reform, when we specifically went through these costs. Now this proposal comes to us at this stage, when the Committee has already passed the first stage of social reform. There are good things in this proposal that have been raised in this Chamber today, but yes, the biggest bomb in this proposal is this removal of the ceiling. Now, people with very low incomes who are currently paying around EUR 60 per year will have to pay more than EUR 20 for each visit until this ceiling of EUR 683 has been filled, and this is completely unreasonable. In addition, if you compare with the neighbouring countries Sweden and Norway, then if this ceiling is currently around 1600 euros in Finland, then next door Sweden
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u135	Finally, ladies and gentlemen, after the last ministerial speech, quite a few of you have come up here and the names of a few Members have been said, and if you are all given the floor at this stage, the window of time, which was reserved for this stage, will be very much exceeded, which is why the debate and the proceedings at this stage will be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u136	We will now resume the debate on item 6 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u137	Mr President! Oversized social welfare and health care customer fees are a key factor in maintaining inequality in Finland. That is why the Left Alliance has long been working for a reduction in social welfare and health care charges, for the consolidation and reduction of ceilings and for the abolition of health centre fees throughout the country, and that is why we have repeatedly warned about government plans to commercialise social and health care services. When costs are increased as a result of market economyisation and the provinces are not entitled to tax, the pressure to increase customer charges will be very high. In this great state of social security uncertainty, the Government has now decided to reform the legislation on social welfare and health care payments. The legislative amendment includes improvements as well as clear weakening. The following changes may include improvements: Oral health care services are included in the ceiling and responsibility for monitoring the ceiling is transferred to the province. Charges for more efficient service housing and long-term institutional care will be harmonised and the obligation not to charge them will be tightened. In addition, health care services are provided entirely free of charge for minors. In the past, in the context of the referral debate, more representatives of the government parties spoke about how this reform is cost-neutral. It is therefore cost-neutral from the point of view of central government finances, which means that the government is not prepared to invest more money in reducing social welfare and health care customer fees. It also means that when good changes are made which raise costs, such as making the provision of services for minors free of charge, this must of course be financed within this system. The main problem with this bill is that a large part of this additional funding, which is now being collected to cover the costs of these good reforms, will be collected by increasing the number of basic health care visits. At present, the medical services of the health centre are subject to a visit fee of up to EUR 20,6 for the majority of municipalities and are subject to a temporary ceiling, i.e. only for the first three visits to the same health centre during the calendar year. This means that the customer has paid up to EUR 61.8 per year health centre fees before the use of the services is free of charge. This has therefore been done because it is intended to ensure that these payments do not become too high for anyone. But despite this, we know that the current Finnish payment practice is estimated to be one of the reasons why socio-economic health inequalities in this country are high compared to the international level. So even at this stage, they are the threshold for low incomes to seek treatment. So now this ceiling is abolished and, in addition to that, basic health care nurses, therapy and serial care fees are changed so that these services can be charged for each visit in the future. This means, inevitably, that the payment burden for low-income people who use a lot of services will probably increase by hundreds of euros a year. The answer to this is to refer to the annual ceiling, as it were, by saying that this is the way to secure low incomes from the excessive payment burden. Thus, when the annual ceiling is met, a person can use the services free of charge. However, the ceiling is untenable for low incomes in Finland. The annual ceiling is therefore currently EUR 683 and in the future the visit to the health centre doctor will only be free of charge when the entire annual ceiling of EUR 683 has been fulfilled. In other words, the maximum cost will increase tenfold with this change. This is exactly the opposite of what should be done in social and health policy. The aim should be to abolish health centre fees throughout the country — a reform which, according to our information, would cost some 67 million — is not an impossible sum if we are prepared to make investments to facilitate access to care for low-income people — and, in addition, to reduce these fees across the board. This situation is unsustainable, where the share of customer fees in Finland is highest in the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u138	Mr President! There is also a very important piece of future social reform in this area, namely, of course, customer charges. The good thing about the reform is that when the customer fees of different municipalities have varied on a quite ragged field, the fact that the Act on Customer Fees seeks more similarity and ensures that payments can be reasonable in different parts of Finland increases equality in this respect. In addition, it is important, especially for the disabled and the elderly, that there should now be changes to these imprecise and open-ended payment criteria. In this respect, it can be said that the current system is quite confusing: some of the payments are in the regulations, some of them are not legal. It can also be said that there are no regulations or even common practices in all matters with regard to service housing. The pricing of service packages varies, as well as the content, and the result can often be unreasonable for the customer. The comparability of costs is very difficult. In this regard, it is important to draw attention to the fact that this proposal seeks to promote equality and legal certainty for people. The advantages are the accumulation of oral health care payments in a free-of-charge manner and the monitoring of the ceiling so that it is transferred from the customer to the organiser. In this respect, these are welcome changes, as are the change in the fact that people under the age of 18 are free of charge for all health services. Good points of view are also changes to moderate payments. But, Mr President, there are also negatives, and it is a pity that when the government is actually going to save EUR 3 billion in the event of a war, then at the same time, the freedom of choice law will significantly increase the cost of allowing the private sector to make profits with the health of people. In this respect, it could easily have been thought that a few ten million could have been spent on improvements in this part of the legislation. However, this is not the case. In order to make improvements, i.e. to reduce the accrual of payments for some, it has also been necessary to increase the accrual of payments, and here are the worst aspects of this proposal. I believe that there is a desire in the Chamber to spend that 70 million on these priorities set by the government parties, nothing at all, but it is unfortunate that it is being done taking particular account of the backskin of those who are particularly ill. Statistics tell us in harsh language that if we have almost 5 million health center visits to primary health care, a million of these visits will be particularly expensive in the future. While the payments for a million visits would have paid well about EUR 62 in total, they will in future be EUR 683 as a result of the increase in the ceiling. This can be regarded as a very difficult run-off, which is present in this proposal, but it has in practice been assessed as having an increasing impact on the revenue generated by the government's proposal, so that an additional EUR 27 million can be obtained from the basic doctor's reception fee. And here is an explanation of the way in which a completely zero budget makes some good improvements but puts at risk, in particular, access to care for many very ill people. And the second problem is undoubtedly that the nurse’s reception fee will be introduced throughout the country. If we think that this would not be the case in a possible future social welfare reform, however, on the contrary, this will specifically apply to all Finns who will visit as customers of the province or in the area of freedom of choice controlled by the province, including private operators. This means that payments must be raised for something when every province is going to be rigorous. In the case of Satakunta, for example, 15% is the government’s intention to save. Of course, then, customer fees must also cover this. In other words, it is not predictable that the provinces will decide that they will be able to waive customer fees because it will result in a loan, and if you take out a loan as a province in a future social welfare reform, it will then lead to an evaluation procedure very quickly. And in this respect, it is doubtful that this bill on customer fees will weaken the treatment received by all Finns, precisely because the fees for the health centre for both the nurse and the doctor's reception will increase. As far as the small detail is concerned, which is not so small, the purpose of Parliament has also been to improve the Act on customer fees in some respects. One very important opening has been what has been in the alternative budgets of both the Left Alliance and the Social Democrats, that basic reception activities should be free of charge in the future. The Social Democrats have presented their own alternative budget, in which we have been able to afford a budgetary margin next year so that it would include a free-of-charge medical visit throughout the year. I think it would have been a lesson and a direction for this reform, but it is precisely here that we want to do this in a cost-neutral way. In other words, it is enough to promote freedom of choice with a cost of up to EUR 1 billion and a cost of EUR 3 billion for savings, but at the same time, a few ten million is not enough to achieve a reasonable result in the Consumer Fees Act. There has also been a debate on the ceiling, and the unfortunate conclusion will be that there will be separate ceilings, especially for people who are involved in the use of a number of social and health care charges, medicines and travels. If all these costs are present, the total amount of payments will be approximately EUR 1600 before all ceilings are met and payments will be relieved. Yes, especially for low incomes, these are heartbreaking issues that should have been addressed. Finally, Mr President, it must be said that when poverty studies are carried out and customer-paying effects are included, they will significantly increase the poverty rate, particularly among those over the age of 65, by between 0.7 and 1.9 percentage points. That's why this is serious talk.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u139	Mr President! Last week, messages started coming from parents of disabled children. I would like to read a passage from a letter that I received: ‘I would like to ask the draftsmen of the law and the minister who brought the proposal to the Parliament:If there was no charge on the outside If the answer is no, how have they come to think that it could at all be an incentive for parents of disabled children?” This refers to page 99 of the government proposal, where situations under the Disability Services Act are reviewed from the point of view of customer fees and from the point of view that parental maintenance liability is also maintained for children who are placed outside the home. It should be noted, however, that this entry, which has been made here on page 99, is not appropriate and has been offensive to many parents of disabled children. They feel that the fact that a disabled child has to leave home in a situation where parents are no longer able to care for the child at home is always a place of great giving up and pain for many. Some even feel that they have failed in situations where they have made a promise to their own, family, and disabled child that the child can live as long as possible at home. I would like to point this out because this should be a reminder to all of us of how precise the text of the law and the explanatory statement of the law should be. If this is not actually meant in this government proposal, it might be good to apologize to these parents of disabled children. As far as this proposal is concerned, it is good that the reform is being carried out. The present system is confusing, and, especially with regard to service housing, many of the elderly and their relatives have been in the middle of quite a jungle, wondering what payments are made up of and how the money and money are sufficient for them. This reform will then improve the harmonisation of service charges in particular. Also, for under 18-year-olds, the fact that all health services are provided free of charge is a big thank-you. Of course, the Social Democrats have made a free offer anyway, and it is of course important that, when you see the impact of this proposal on people under the age of 18, you would dare to take a step towards a wider range of health services that are actually free of charge. However, what I am very concerned about is the abolition of the ceiling on payments. In fact, we should have taken action to combine these caps and actually to facilitate the position of the long-term sufferers, the disabled and the elderly. They really would've missed it. In Finland, over 1.9 million people of working age suffer from some long-term illness or disability, and they are those who need medicines but also a lot of services. To get a diagnosis first requires a doctor’s visit. Perhaps after the diagnosis has been finalized and completed, you will need to consider medication. The medication may need to be applied several times before the correct medication is found. Thereafter, monitoring and control of glycaemic control should be performed on a regular basis. And it is not their fault or these people's fault that they have to use the services more often and more than they have now, for example, these three times, after which they have no longer had to pay for them. This ceiling has secured it. Now they are not given this kind of security, and that is a mistake, I will say it again. In 2015, a million visits exceeded this three visits according to THL statistics, so we are not talking about a small number. About 3.9 million visits were made where the number of visits did not exceed this three - visit roof, but a million visits exceeded this. If it can be said that one-fifth of all visits to or after a health centre doctor were made, then we are talking about a big issue that should then be taken into account in this bill. The payment burden for these elderly people who use medical services many times a year, such as low incomes, will increase in the future. For example, 10 visits to a doctor during a calendar year would amount to €206 as a customer charge, and this is a significant increase after the current €61 80 cents or an annual fee of €41 20 cents. These people are often still those who are also taking a lot of medicines and who have already had difficulty thinking about where the money will be taken from. Thank you, therefore, for all the good that has been done in this proposal, but it is essential that attention be paid now to these long-term ills, whose costs will increase as a result of this proposal. It's not right.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u140	Mr President! The current system of customer fees is so confusing that it is necessary to reform the law. Some of the payments are currently defined in regulations and some are not legal. This is particularly evident in services for the elderly and the disabled, where charges vary considerably from one municipality to another. In the case of service housing, there are no regulations or even uniform practices. The pricing and content of service packages vary almost arbitrarily. This bill brings solutions to these problems and improves people's equality and legal security. On the other hand, the level of payments for service housing remains a matter of concern and will not be corrected in this legislative proposal. The positive thing is that the reduction and non-recovery of payments is more clearly and strongly expressed in this draft law. Even now it is possible, but this possibility has been used far too little. In this regard, it is necessary to increase the obligation of guidance and advice in order to move this issue to a practical level as part of the development of a service plan, and I hope that attention will be paid to this issue in the committee. Other positive aspects include the inclusion of hospitalisation days in the ceiling and the extension of the ceiling to dental care services. However, the bill contains serious shortcomings and weaknesses. In particular, the rise in health centre fees is a significant reduction. Already, there are high customer fees in Finland, and the Board increased the maximum number of customer fees in 2015 and 2016. In the future, at the health centre, the visit will be paid until the ceiling has been reached, when previously the ceiling limited the fee to either three visits per year or to an annual fee of approximately EUR 41. In practice, this means that the burden of payment for those who use medical services many times a year will increase. According to a recent study by THL, high customer fees in health care increase poverty. Pensioners with low incomes are the main users of health care services and are paying customer fees, and it is therefore incomprehensible that their situation is being weakened again. I believe that the City of Helsinki's experiences with the abolition of health charges are positive and should be pursued in this direction throughout the country. The abolition of charges would reduce welfare and health inequalities and, in the long term, bring savings as the use of heavier and more expensive services decreases. The fees for nursing visits will also be determined by law in the future, and it is assumed that more and more municipalities will bill for these visits as well. At present, in terms of population share, 40% of municipalities charge a fee for carers’ visits, and, for example, many destitute diabetics have reported that they visit a nurse less often because of the fee. This is a bad development because regular checks on diabetes nurses have proved to be a very effective way of reducing costly complications and additional illnesses. In my view, the price charged for remote services is also questionable. I am not at all convinced that it makes sense to compare distance services with the reception of payments. Remote services should, as a rule, remain free of charge and cannot be obliged to use them, but should only be used with the consent of the person. Nor do I believe that the levy will encourage increased use of remote services, even if this would otherwise be desirable. Finally, Mr President, the recording of payments for support services is far too vague. There would be an entry in the law for reasonable fees, and I will stay and ask what this means. Who feels that reasonable payments are being made? This is something that I really hope will also be considered in committee. The law should include an assessment of the overall situation of the customers when the customer fee plan is drawn up, and the choice of means should include the possibility of reducing or withholding payments, i.e. also in support services. Currently, the fees charged for support services such as catering, clothing, trade and other services, security services and so on vary widely between municipalities. I know of situations where, because of the amount of charges, services are not received or then reduced to something else necessary, such as medicines. It is wrong for an elderly person to have to choose between two important things because the money is not enough for everything. Refusal of support services for economic reasons may undermine the survival of the elderly at home, which may increase the need for long-term improved service housing and institutional care. The reasonable collection of fees mentioned in this bill does not clarify this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u141	Mr President! The change in the Customer Payment Act includes both good and bad. The good news is that oral health care payments are now included in the health care ceiling. I have presented it about a year ago with a bill, and now it seems to be happening. This is a very important issue, since the cost of oral health care is a significant burden for deprived people and an obstacle to the use of the necessary services. I am pleased that this is now progressing and that health equality is progressing in this respect. Oral health affects other general health, so it is important to take care of oral health. The inequalities in oral health are currently high in Finland. The most low-income people would have a greater need for oral health care services, but they use the services less than high-income people, and this is due to the high cost of oral health care. In this respect, at least in part will be corrected when this ceiling extends to the oral health care sector. However, it is also essential for equality in oral health that the public provision of oral health care is sufficient, as one important factor causing inequality is also long waiting lists in public oral health care. In other words, if this cap extension increases demand for public health care, it is important to ensure that care is also available and resources are added to the provision of care, so that queues do not increase, and this in turn increases inequalities in access to services. Another good thing about the new Consumer Fees Act is the clarification of the payment jungle of improved service housing for the elderly. The fees for today's enhanced service housing are not clear either, nor especially the grandmother of her petticoat. Charges for enhanced service housing are now aligned with institutional care fees and are set at clear limits. It is also a good thing that underage health care payments, which are included in the law, are abolished. The problem, however, is that good things are financed by weakening the position of those who need a lot of services. This is happening, as has already been said many times here, so that the current ceilings on health centre fees are abolished, which means that customer charges will rise significantly for people who use a lot of services. The presentation waives the annual fee for health centre fees, and in the future the fee could be charged for each visit. Of course, this applies to those who have to visit the health centre a lot, especially the elderly. Already in the current situation, more than 300,000 social welfare and health care customer fees end up in enforcement. In 2015, more than 55,000 Finns spent more than 40 per cent of their disposable income on customer fees, medicines and travel. It is an enormous amount, especially when it comes to people with limited means. It should also be noted that the latest news is that there has been an increase in the number of subscriptions for the elderly, and it is certainly due to the lack of financial resources, at least to some extent, to the failure to pay these health care charges. This is therefore an important issue. Customer payments are mainly paid by half of the population, and the half that pays them is not the better-off side. The majority of the health centre’s customers belong to the lowest income categories when the well-off are covered by occupational health care or private insurance. Customer fees accumulate and hit the most hard on the elderly and those most in need of care. In order to ensure health equality, there should be a reduction in the burden of payment for those who need a lot of services by combining three separate caps. Instead of three separate caps, a total of around 1600 euros, a single reduced cap should be set for treatment, medicine and travel. However, the good thing about this proposal is that the monitoring of the ceilings is transferred from the customer's shoulders to the province itself. That is a good thing, because it may be that people today do not always notice that the ceiling has been reached and that they no longer have to pay customer fees.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u142	Madam President! The proposal provides for a new law on customer charges for social and health services. The aim of this is to update the customer fee legislation to the level required by the existing services and operating environment. It is worth your attention to consider how the customer’s situation will improve or whether it will improve. According to the proposal, the reasonableness of the payment burden would be secured by the reasonable maximum fees provided for by the law and also by a cap which, like the current regulation, would prevent the payment burden from becoming excessively high. At the same time, the proposal would strengthen the paragraph on reduction and non-recovery. At present, payments are being reduced or left unrecoverable relatively little. There has also been a lot of public debate about the collection of customer fees through enforcement. The largest group of these customer charges are hospital and institutional care fees. The aim of the law now proposed is to strengthen the province's obligation to reduce charges or not to collect them if they endanger the customer's livelihood. If the customer cannot afford to pay a doctor's visit, the primary aim of the province is to reduce the customer's fee and not to direct the customer to apply for income support. I also think that this seems to be the right decision, and this possibility must also be used. Preventive services would continue to be free of charge. Free access is partly extended to substance abuse and mental health services. The services of minors would also be made available free of charge. The change would extend the freedom to pay to healthcare institutions and specialised medical care. Freedom of payment would, in particular, improve the position of families in a weak economic situation, as the burden of payment for a child's illness would be reduced. I do not regard these reforms as bad either. The position of the veterans I appreciate will also be improved. An additional front and veteran supplement would be removed from the income on which income-related payments are based, so that they would no longer be included in the income when the customer fee is imposed. Free access to public oral healthcare for veterans would extend to all oral health care services, including technical costs related to dental protetic treatment. Oral health care, which is responsible for organising the region, would be entirely free of charge for veterans in the future. I believe that this is part of our duty to honour them, and now, in line with the reform, it will come into force. Of course, one might wonder why only now. The proposal would remove the so-called ceiling restricting access to basic medical visits. Removing the ceiling increases the payment burden for customers who use a lot of services. The proposal argues that the ceiling will be removed as the aim is to make the proposal cost-neutral. That is certainly the case, but this is disproportionate to the many who suffer from it. There should be another solution to this. I hope that the wise committee will look carefully at this issue, just as the places where hospitals have been spoken today have been.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u143	Madam President! The Government's proposal to harmonise social and health care charges at national level is very welcome, and warm thanks for the fact that the proposal is now on the table. At present, payment practices differ significantly from one region to another and the differences between municipalities are large. At the same time, the instructions have been unclear and difficult to grasp for the patient. However, there is one significant, flagrant flaw in the performance, particularly in customer fees. In the past, the so-called intermediate fee cap has been used in the medical fees of primary health care. It has moderated charges for people with high service and low income incomes. In the case of medical visits, the ceiling has been reached when there have been three visits per year. The following visits have been free of charge. As soon as the law enters into force, those who need treatment will pay up to EUR 380 for their visits. In the past, health care visits have been free of charge, but with the reform of the law some 40 per cent of the municipalities have abandoned this practice. The interim payment ceiling is also being removed from the nurse’s visits. There is already evidence that people on low incomes are skipping visits because of payments. The alarm clocks should ring, but the ceiling reform still leaves itself waiting. Today, we read in the news that last year the number of default messages increased by as much as 9 per cent for over 65-year-olds. At the same time, we know that the underlying factors are the increases in customer charges. The basic security of pensioners and low incomes has been cut while the costs of basic living have been constantly increasing. The situation is shocking because we know that it is the elderly who use health care services a lot. They have far more visits than three times a year. The abolition of the intermediate ceilings is therefore the hardest hit for older people, for those with low incomes and for those in need of other services. Last year alone, more than one million Finns had more than three medical visits a year. Last year, there were more than 355,000 social welfare and health care charges. Minister Saarikko points out that in the future greater use will be made of moderate payments and full liberalisation. The practice is already in place, but the experience of how it is used in practice is not only positive. Many low incomes will eventually have to rely on income support, and municipalities know this. Instead of reducing the fees, the expenditure is allowed to flow to where Kela pays half of the costs. Of course, it's not legal. An appeal has also been made for last resort security, and it in itself tells us that there is no real understanding of the raw fact of real life. A person must have almost no income in order to be entitled to income support at all. On the other hand, there are a huge number of low-income pensioners and families with children who are making payments as a real barrier to seeking care, because they are not yet so poor as to receive last-minute support. The crowd of these interlopers is large, but they are rarely heard from. Pensioner poverty is a flagrant social problem. At the same time, we talk intensely about promoting health and well-being and preventive services. In this Chamber, Minister Saarikko wised up earlier that fees do not extend to preventive services. I did not receive an answer to my question as to whether basic health care visits are not exactly these and fall under this category. What we need is a strong investment in basic health care. The SDP has proposed an increase in the central government shares of municipalities in social welfare and health care in order to allow municipalities to hire more nurses and doctors and to reduce and eliminate the fees collected. The government of this proposal has been vehemently knocked out when it finds it too expensive — ignoring the economic benefits that timely treatment of disease itself would have in itself. At the same time, the government is prepared to create completely free hands for the private sector by means of legislation when public cutting operations are driven down. This means a transfer of more than EUR 5 billion to the market, and the bill will be paid by ordinary citizens. I believe that this policy is irresponsible not only in economic terms but also in terms of promoting public health.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u144	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! During the last oral Question Time of last year, we discussed poverty and the increase in inequality. During this term of government, Finland has taken a very worrying path. According to Statistics Finland's recently published income distribution statistics, Finland's inequality is increasing with increasing income differentials. In 2017, the number of persons belonging to households with low incomes was 654,000. The share of low incomes in the household population was 12.1 per cent, and poverty is even more common when household health care payments are taken into account. When customer fees are deducted from people's disposable income, the share of the poor in the population will increase by thousands. A typical health care customer fee is the medical visit fee of the health centre. For example, the poverty rate among people over 65 will increase by nearly 2 percentage points, taking account of customer fees. Mr President! High charges are an obstacle to the use of services, especially for those most in need of them, i.e. the elderly, the disabled, people with mental health and substance abuse problems, the long-term sick, the unemployed and those who have had the greatest need for them. Now, with this proposal, the government will further weaken their situation. There has been a three-time rule in the health centre fee, and now this will be abolished and the fee will be paid in the future if this government proposal goes through, pays each time. In other words, the situation is getting worse for people who have many illnesses and many visits to basic health care. According to the law currently in force, they have paid a maximum of EUR 60 a year — and, for example, here in Helsinki EUR 0, because there is no health centre fee. Since the government is now proposing to remove this ceiling, it will make people practically pay up to EUR 683 per year. I find this quite shocking. According to the surveys, the highest customer fees are paid by low incomes and pensioners. On the one hand, because they have a greater need for services and, on the other hand, because they do not have voluntary health insurance or occupational health care. When the money is simply no longer enough, they save on visits to doctors and food. This is commonplace for one-tenth of our old people. In addition, 30 percent of long-term sufferers postpone or switch to a cheaper drug. This seems to me to be a very bad social policy for the welfare state. It is no coincidence that last year, the enforcement ended up with some 320,000 public-sector social welfare and health care customer fees. These were quite common fees for dental care, health centre, hospital or institutional and home services, as well as other public social services, not any luxury costs. Although customer fees have already been high in Finland by international comparison, they have been increased by almost 30 per cent by this current government. In this way, poverty and enforcement have been increased. Mr President! Finland does not need anything massive Sipilä's social welfare reform in the regions, but we need a thorough customer fee reform for social welfare and health care. That is why I consider this bill of customer fees to be the most important social welfare reform, but this proposal is unfortunately unambitious and without full understanding of people's everyday lives. In most European countries, social and health care services and prescription medicines are free of charge or customer fees are very low. This is not the case in Finland. After all, our customer fees and pharmaceutical prices are high internationally despite the fact that they are a bad way to raise money. The health centre fee should therefore be abolished in its entirety. This is what the SDP has proposed in its alternative budget, but that is not what the government is doing in this bill. The abolition of the health centre fee would immediately help low-income pensioners and families with unemployment. In addition, placing social welfare and health care customer fees in the hands of international recovery companies is immoral. I expected the Minister to intervene in his proposal, but the Minister was not interested in this problem, despite the fact that statistics are already talking about the crisis. More than half a million Finns are in enforcement, and 400,000 have a default mark. According to the news published just today, the number of pensioners with a default mark increased by 9% a year — that is, by 9% a year. Many of these people who have been seized and who have received a declaration of default have ended up in difficulties, precisely because of social and health care charges and bills. — Thank you, Mr President. I will continue with the second floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u145	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Taavija for his excellent speech, which I was happy to listen to. It well highlighted how customer fees are a very important issue in the fight against poverty and an important role to play. In that respect, this government proposal is a big disappointment, although I have to say that there are good things here. The City of Helsinki's opinion has drawn attention to these issues. We all know that under the present situation, people with low incomes are too often left without the services they need because of the heavy costs they pay to those with low incomes. In the current state, customer charges practices also vary between municipalities, which puts citizens in an unequal position. For example, in my own hometown of Helsinki, we have waived health centre fees because we have seen that they are a high threshold for too many low-income people, which in practice prevents you from seeking treatment. But The Sipilä Board of Directors has increased customer fees several times during this period, and during the Sipilä Board of Directors the increases have also been large. In 2015, the maximum fees for customers were increased by 9.4 per cent and in 2016 by almost 30 per cent at a time, i.e. by 30 per cent at a time. At the same time, the own contribution of medicines and travel costs has also been increased. In 2016, almost 400,000 social welfare and health care customer fees ended up in the enforcement. And indeed, if you look at the reasons for the quick buys too, then they are just ordinary everyday expenses, such as customer fees, medical fees, also rents for low incomes. In the current situation, people with low incomes are too often left out of the services they need because of the size of these charges, and therefore I myself expected that the Government's bill on customer fees, this package, would have included a combination of annual caps, i.e. a combination of customer fees and pharmaceutical and travel costs, which would have made the situation easier for those with high incomes. After all, the situation of low-income people with a high level of income today is disproportionate when different caps come in one at a time, and especially in the early part of the year it is very difficult, very heavy for those with low incomes. But instead of creating a uniform ceiling, what does the government do? The government will abolish the ceiling on payments, which means an additional cost of up to hundreds of euros per year for these people with high incomes. In other words, it is precisely these persons who would have needed a hand-out that are now being punished by going through this bill the hardest. Indeed, those on low incomes who visit the health centre more than once a year would have to pay higher fees, and in practice they are threatening to increase, especially for the low-income elderly, because they use these local health centres and their health centre services most. There is no justification for this in any way. At least for my own part, it is very difficult to understand that such a proposal has been brought here. For example, at the moment the customer has paid a maximum of EUR 61 80 cents per year for medical visits, but in the future, when the ceiling disappears, payments must be paid until the ceiling is reached, i.e. EUR 683 per year. It's pretty shocking, isn't it? In addition, even though this bill is now being brought here as an independent bill, I believe that this proposal should be part of the social welfare bill. We know that, when the social welfare reform takes place — if it is implemented — it will increase the pressure to increase the cost of social welfare and health care services, because the regions are already becoming too small to manage social services in the first place, and when, for example, they do not have the right to tax, which would enable them to balance the situation, they will either have to apply for savings from these social services, which are vital to the low-income people in particular, and even more important to many than social benefits, or then they will have to increase the cost of such services. It is likely that both of these will happen, precisely because the regions have too low a budget and do not have an independent opportunity to raise funds for social costs when there is no right to tax. The only thing left is this increase in customer fees. Of course, this cannot be regarded as a sustainable practice now, given the objective of the social welfare reform. Its aim was precisely to reduce inequalities in health care, i.e. to reduce health inequalities, but if one pauses for a moment to think about the effects of this performance too, this will really hit the most severely on the people who are most ill, and their position will therefore become more difficult in the future. Well, as far as I am concerned, this bill contains a good article in itself on the possibility for low incomes not to charge customer fees, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u146	Madam President! It is good to continue with that speech by Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto. This is precisely the case, and when these pressure calculations have been made for different regions, then Lapland is also in a position to cut the cost structure for social and health care by EUR 33 million, and we are in an intolerable situation right now in the starting positions. This explicitly means that those who are elected to the provincial administration there will have no choice but to increase customer fees and charges or to cut services. However, I fear that this reduction or non-recovery of payments, which has been enshrined in this law, will in practice remain a dead letter, i.e. financial resources will not allow it to be interfered with. Otherwise, this bill on customer fees is outdated and incomplete, and it is good that it is made clear and understandable to the public. It touches almost all of us so that it is important to know what is going on there. It is good that the legal protection of customers is realised and improved. But then I have concerns about the low incomes too. These rising charges must not lead to poverty and shame and prevent the use of services at all, so it must also be borne in mind that these customer charges are often imposed on people who are not necessarily able to pursue their own interests. In his own speech, Mr Taavitsainen made an excellent point about these people in the enforcement proceedings. In 2016, there were 387000 different customer fees for enforcement, including hospital and institutional care fees, dental or health centre fees. In this respect, we must agree with the hope that health centre fees will be abolished for those on low incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u147	Mr President! Indeed, Parliament has finally, finally and finally, received the long-awaited bill on customer charges for social and health services, and it is an essential part of this whole package and package of social and regional reform. In this respect, it is very problematic that a piece of a social service puzzle, which raised such important and big questions, has been brought here to Parliament only at the very end of the parliamentary term, quite long after most other proposals relating to the reform of social welfare and health care have been brought here. Mr President! As has been pointed out here, there are good features in this proposal, among other things, that customer charges will be regulated at the level of the law in the future. This bill clarifies the current situation in so far as customer fees can only be charged for services that are specified in the Act on Customer Fees, and the health care services of minors are also free of charge. But this proposal is not without problems at all, as has already been quite well mentioned in this debate. The legislation still leaves separate caps on actual customer fees, travel costs and pharmaceutical costs, and it would have been particularly necessary for the low-income people who use a lot of social services that the government has combined these separate caps when this big reform is being carried out. Mr President! Even more so, with the new draft law and the law, if it is implemented, the problem is the so-called abolition of the ceiling on health centre fees. In practice, this can mean as much as 11 times the current costs for the low-income people who use a lot of health centre services, and this is indeed a drastic change, which must be dealt with in a very serious way. Although the Minister's presentation stated that the bill would not lead to an increase in customer fees, the explanatory statement of the Government's proposal also states that the costs of social services for those who use a lot of basic health care services will increase considerably. It is therefore very unfair if this government, you can say, is being paid for by people on low incomes. For example, does all of this lead to an increase in income expenditure, it remains to be seen. Fortunately, however, this proposal also goes under the scrutiny of the Constitutional Committee, and the Constitutional Committee now has a lot of security to ensure that the original objectives of the social welfare reform on equal treatment are better achieved. Unfortunately, there is a very different threat.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u148	Mr President! Everyone who has is given, and he will receive plenty, but whoever does not, even what he has will be taken away. This verse of Matthew’s Gospel can be compared to the politics of the bourgeois government of Sipilä. The Matthew effect means the accumulation of benefits for those who already have them. This is clearly evident in this government proposal, too, as a law on customer fees. Why did the government not use its option to reduce charges and completely abolish the central health charge, thus bringing the lives of pensioners and unemployed closer to the citizens covered by free occupational health care, such as us MPs who have free occupational health care and do not receive health centre fees? The activities of the Sipilä Government have in many respects weakened people's livelihood and well-being. Low-income pensioners in every corner of our country suffer from the same difficulties. There is not enough money for housing, food, medicines and social and health care customer fees. Poverty among pensioners prevents the use of social and health services, and sickness, high customer fees and drug ownership drive people into poverty. Mr President! There are important questions of fairness about social security payments. Of the older pensioners aged over 85, 32% are among the lowest incomes and only 9% are among the richest incomes. Very old pensioners have a lot of need for care, but they do not have the money to pay for services. High fees are an obstacle to access to services, and those who do not have sufficient assistance are the most affected by low incomes, i.e. 32% of those over 85 are among the lowest incomes. Pensioners on low incomes use public social and health services more than those on high incomes. Private social services for which Kela benefits have been applied for have been used by just over half of pensioners, but 71 per cent of them are of the highest income category. Despite the Kela compensation, many low-income people cannot afford to use private social services or service vouchers. The Kela compensation system and service vouchers are thus the main beneficiaries of high incomes. Now, in this proposal, the government is abolishing the ceiling on this health centre fee, and it is therefore a clear target for low incomes and, in particular, pensioners — a clear weakening for them. Approximately one in seven pensioners have received home care services, but the share is significantly higher in older age groups, especially those aged over 85, almost half of whom have used home care services. The difference between low incomes and high incomes is large in the use of home care. One-half of those over 85 years of age with the lowest income rate have received home care. Pensioners with more incomes have not used home care services so widely. This is linked to the prevalence of living alone, especially in the lowest income category and to the lower health status and the lesser use of private services. However, I did not see any reduction in the fees in the table of services provided at home on page 232 of the government proposal. Many old people don't take home services because they don't have the money to pay for them. This proposal should definitely have reduced those amounts in the table. Pensioners also have a lot of self-responsibles for medicines, but low incomes pay relatively more for their medicines. A significant proportion of those who need a lot of medicines are the elderly, and almost all have chronic disease and multiple concomitant medications. For cost reasons, people with low incomes and long-term illnesses in particular do not buy medicines or halve doses. I would therefore have expected the government to combine the caps on pharmaceuticals and services and transport services into a single cap. Now they total around 1600 euros a year. I believe that a reasonable sum of medicines, services and transport would be around EUR 400 per year. Mr President! Finland must restore our value base to the principle of solidarity. Access to high-quality public social and health services must be guaranteed for all people regardless of their ability to pay and their social status. People with low incomes now do not have the funds to get sick or treat themselves after the Government's Act on Customer Fees enters into force in Finland. I wonder why the government did not follow the example of Sweden in this matter, even though it copied Sweden in its proposal on freedom of choice. In Sweden, no customer fees are charged to people under 20 years of age for basic health care, a specialist visit, physiotherapy, prescription drugs and dental care. This would have been a performance that would have received my support. In Sweden, customer fees are only used in a very small way. There, public tax funding accounts for 84 per cent of the costs of social services, only 75 per cent in Finland, which means that in Finland there are considerably more customer fees collected from people. In England, too, the share of public funding is 83% and health care services are mostly free for people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u149	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. We reserve 30 minutes and not much more for the debate on referrals, in this same way as the previous one. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed by the Council of Presidents on scheduled matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u150	Mr President! There are indeed three very important proposals in a row that affect the content of health care, of which I shall now present the whole package of emergency care in accordance with the list. Mr President! This proposal proposes to amend the provisions of the Health Care Act on emergency care services to reflect the new structures for the reform of regional and social services. This law is also intended to enter into force at the start of the provinces in 21 C.E. According to this law, emergency care would be an official activity, a part of the social and health care on-call system, but, above all, a very important part of the overall safety of society. I think that many of us are also measuring the success of our health care at the moment when, in a difficult and critical situation, we have to call an ambulance in emergency care or when we hit the site of the accident. Due to this nature of authority, provision is made for the provision of emergency care services in a way that is different from that of other social services. According to this proposal, the emergency care service would be organised by the province, produced in its own capacity or in cooperation with another province, and the definition of the mission of the emergency care service would be in line with the current tasks. The own organisation and production of the regions would include the management tasks of the emergency care service, the decision on the level of service by cooperation area, but also the decision on how to produce the services. In addition, the emergency care service includes the maintenance of preparedness, participation in the preparation of contingency plans and cooperation between the authorities. It is not possible to acquire public service tasks from other service providers in this law. The municipality’s own activities would be produced at the regional social welfare office. As the province’s own production, patient duties in the emergency care service and first response activities could also be produced at the regional rescue services’ business facility, as the rescue services function is also transferred to the provinces. Mr President! In practice, therefore, the province may acquire from other service providers the care of emergency care patient tasks referred to in Article 40(1)(1) of the Act and the first response activities referred to in paragraph 5. In the future, when Finland is divided into five areas of cooperation, they would have wider tasks related to the uniform planning and management of preparedness and preparedness and on-call operations. These tasks in this law have now been reorganised. The cooperation areas would include steering groups with administrative tasks and emergency services for social services with operational steering tasks. In addition, the provinces maintaining a university hospital, together with other provinces maintaining a university hospital, would coordinate the emergency care service in such a way that it would actually become a national entity in a different way from today. This is necessary, Mr President, because the resources of emergency care services must also be able to be used across regional borders, primarily in the event of peaks of congestion. Preparedness and preparedness planning for different situations and emergency conditions must indeed be carried out across the county borders, because in modern threats the effects of situations are rarely limited to one place. These harmonised operating cultures enable the appropriate use of resources and also form part of our overall security. Today, Mr President, the municipalities and medical districts have different telephone advice numbers for emergency situations. In the future, the customer, every Finn, can call one national telephone number, the new emergency help unit 116117. From now on, calls will now be directed centrally through a single number, and these will not alter the on-call activity or much of the emergency centre activity under load. In addition, telephone counselling helps to instruct patients about the need to go to the emergency clinic, whether the matter can be dealt with in another way, and what would be the right place to deal with it. Thus, in the future, 112 would actually deal with urgent, urgent and life-threatening situations, and in this new telephone service 116117 less urgent services but still those in which a person feels he needs help. Paramedic services, Mr President, will in future be financed as a whole through the general coverage of the provinces. In future, emergency care services and patient transfers not included in the service, which the province has been obliged to tender, must be held responsible for the organisation and cost of the provinces. The allowances paid by the Social Insurance Institution under the Health Insurance Act for emergency care services and patient transfers will cease at the beginning of 21. As I have already mentioned, Mr President, responsibility for organising and costing the province would in future have to include patient transfers not included in the emergency care service, which means situations where, in order to obtain healthcare services, it is medically necessary to transport the patient from the responsible health care unit to another unit for further care or research, i.e. situations where there is no need for such immediate medical assistance. In these cases, the province must acquire transport and transport by competitive tendering from private service providers, unless it is impossible due to market failure. This proposal would therefore, as a general rule, provide for the content of the emergency care service in the same way as it does today, but the nature and public responsibility of the emergency care service would also be more clearly reflected in the regulations through public production and, at the same time, ensure the preservation of the multi-producer model in the provision of emergency care. The steering function of the cooperation areas will be strengthened and the tasks will be extended to include a more extensive contingency plan and contingency plan for on-call operations.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to ask those Members who wish to make a reply, to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u152	Mr President! No, Minister, envy your situation in any way. You have tried to move things forward during this regime, many of which you may not even agree with. You have been bound by the cow trade that took place at the beginning of this regime, in which the Central Party has received regional reform and the coalition has received market-based war. But your criticism through me as a minister and your argument that you have not, for example, managed this ceiling is not very elegant. And when it comes to market-based war, the proposal under discussion is just one example of the way in which, on your watch, Minister, this model of war has received signs of market-economy that Finland will not be able to cope with them. Fortunately, we have a Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u153	Mr President! The reform of social welfare and health care is carried out to ensure that every Finn receives services produced with public funds. In Helsinki, for example, only about 35% of people receive health centre services, while others use private health care. [ Mid-term talks on the Socialist Group] And I would say that the Minister certainly pointed out that when the Social Democrats were ministers, the Act on services for the elderly had to be accompanied by a reform of the shockingly confusing legislation on customer fees for elderly services, but there was no law, not even if it was called for. Now it has come, and this is an excellent improvement. Let's make it a pleasure. In other words, there were no unfounded reproaches here, but I think that is what Minister Saarikko said, and I think that was quite right.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u154	Mr President! However, if we go back to the government proposal before us. So there have been fierce claims in the public domain, such as in Kauppalehti on 4 January, that there is a desire to outsource patient transfer and emergency care to private companies, but when you read the government’s proposal yourself, these claims seem to be partly news ducks. However, I ask the Minister: have I understood correctly that outsourcing of patient transfers is only related to non-urgent transport? And I also hope that the Minister will be able to respond to the question of whether the acquisition of first response from private operators is, in some respects, involved in the proposal. I didn't quite catch this yet. I understand that in the case of non-urgent patient transport, private sector operators can be used, but this proposal does not lead to the sale of the first fast-track operator to the site of the accident in the future, does it?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u155	Mr President! The starting point of this government proposal is the organisation of emergency care after the regional reform. I would like to give an example of North Karelia how well it works when it is concentrated. It has been taken care of for many years now, even before Siu's social service, so that it has been centrally managed by the North Karelian Rescue Department, or by society, and works excellently. I would like to tell everyone that we get very much positive because it is in capable hands, that emergency care has developed very much over the last few years, and we all know that it is very important that emergency care works. There are certain times when an ambulance has to be on the site, that is, they have been defined, and in this proposal I understand that the time limits have not been addressed, but how emergency care is arranged. I think the government proposal is excellent, and it is worth taking it forward with a good idea.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u156	Mr President! There has been talk of the Constitutional Committee's activities around the wars. I myself have been in that committee and, as I pointed out in the previous speech, we have met dozens of times or in fact hundreds of times around these issues, and that was what was said here, and Mr Saarikko said that it is good that we have a Constitutional Committee. Yeah, but that's the kind of situation... I am a lawyer from my education and I am used to having to study things carefully. For the second time, we have already recovered this previous package, which we are currently dealing with there in terms of funding. Then we have these individual laws that are constantly coming, like this law and like that bill on customer fees, and the starting point is that the social security system has already been adopted. I feel like these people should have been together at one reading. You know, as a lawyer, it is very difficult for me to understand that in a hurry I should make the biggest reform of Finnish history in this area,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u157	Mr President! The primary objective of the government's social and health policy does not appear to be the cost-effective organisation of vital services for citizens, but the opening-up of the market. This has become clear and is confirmed by the section on non-urgent patient transfers. The outsourcing of first responders is also now possible. In the future, the government will not allow the provinces themselves to choose how non-urgent patient transfers are organised and how much of them are produced themselves, but the government will require that they are always put into competition, i.e. put into the hands of the private sector. I would like to ask the Minister: for what public health reason do you justify this call for competition and deprive the region of its autonomy in this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u158	Mr President! In the future, emergency care services are to be the responsibility of the province, and I myself — when I come from emergency services and have been there for years — now see no problem in this proposal, because this will be the same as it is at present. It is done with a multi-producer model, and it is also a good idea to be prepared, because then, at national level, we will be able to ensure that we have emergency treatment on different sides, that we have rescue services or the provincial business which is responsible for rescue and emergency care, but then supplemented by private operators. If we have a major accident situation or something like that that suddenly requires a lot of capacity, then of course it makes sense to use private people in that activity as well. Then, in the case of unurgent transport, private transport is a very important resource. It's all good cooperation in the field, so I don't see any contradiction in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u159	Mr President! First of all I have to say that if this two-phone system is going to work, then it sounds good, because at the moment we know that the alarm centers are really crowded and there are people's resources at the moment quite scarce and there are no employees, so we have this kind of cage problem where those phone numbers are being directed. Secondly, when we talk here about this whole war, which is now here for the third time in this government, it is not a question of the opposition being against it — although it is, of course — but of the fact that it has not been possible to show that these models can provide people with services. The fact that people are not receiving services on an equal footing has been a problem. But to this question: Since these normal emergency care services come as the province’s own production — organisation and production — why could this model not be made for the whole of social protection? Why this model, that itself is organized and produced,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u160	Mr President! As far as urgent care is concerned, we are still subject to a tendering obligation, which means that there is no change in the content of this law in relation to the current situation, just as there is no change in the whole of this emergency care activity. The first response is still legal at the moment. It should be arranged in the area when the distance from the emergency unit is so long that it may then be necessary. The first response unit will provide that first aid there, but it's an emergency in nature. Yes, emergency response units that move on rubber wheels are increasingly being pushed forward as part of the emergency services. Currently service providers can be rescue services, hospital districts or private service providers. Here, too, there is nothing new about this current legislation. More than ever, this is now being taken over by the provinces and increasingly obliges service providers to use integrated information and communication systems and, at the same time, to cooperate in the event of a crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u161	Mr President! Like many others, I also wonder about this way of the government, constantly being forced to involve the market economy of services in all aspects of this social welfare reform. As has been mentioned earlier, the possibility of acquiring these services from private companies, which has not existed before, is thus being opened up in the case of first-aid response activities, and at least I read this proposal in the case of non-first-aid patient transfers, so that it is here that the regions are primarily obliged to tender these services. Why do we want to have such legislation, which, as it were, compels regions to provide services primarily in this way, instead of giving them room for manoeuvre themselves to decide what is appropriate? According to the proposal, this will significantly increase the share of private service providers in patient transfers, since the number of patient transfers is significantly higher than that of emergency care.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u162	Mr President! Emergency care services are a very important, essential part of medical care and their functioning in acute, urgent and other transport is, of course, an essential element. I would have liked to add an excellent point from this proposal: this advice and guidance service for social and health care emergency services, this new telephone number. I would see that it is a long-awaited and very necessary reform, and I would like it to get off to a good start. But I myself am also thinking about patient transfers not included in the emergency care service, and this particular obligation to tender, as has been pointed out in some of the previous speeches. Do you not see the problem of the fact that it is primarily the regions that should be competitive and not the regions that should be given that power of decision?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u163	I will give Mr Salonen and then the Minister a reply for three minutes, so that after the Minister's speech, we can have a few more replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u164	Mr President! In general, I think that the result of the concentration is that there are continuous car hoses on the highways and it does not seem reasonable or human. At this point, however, we are talking primarily about the authorities of the emergency care service, but also about the transport service provided by the private sector. Certainly, the majority of these too are elderly people, for example, who are then moved from one place to another. I'm interested in public authority and the boundaries of government. Is it absolutely certain that these transports, which are given to these individuals, do not now have situations in which public authority is exercised? In fact, we have heard today that in another type of transport, which concerns social and health care, the problem is precisely that private companies exercise public authority.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u165	Minister, three minutes, and then there will be time for comments.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u166	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say again because I noticed that, due to the tight timetable of the previous debate, there could certainly be misconceptions: Mr Guzenina, as I recall, I have always remembered to say the excellent things that have happened during your period. There were many of them. But I did not consider it reasonable for the accusation that now that the bill on customer fees is being brought in after many years of preparation for the government, you say that it is as if it was being brought wrong. It exasperated me, and that's why I judged it the way I just did. As far as this bill is concerned, quite rightly, as Mrs Aalto said, it is intended to talk about important official activities in this context and, as I said earlier, in my own opinion, many Finns also measure the functioning of our services and their reliability and also the equality of people. As a single issue, the first response services will remain more or less the same. The basic picture remains quite the same. But then, by definition, these transfers of patients, i.e. situations that have nothing to do with emergency care, in which so-called whistles are not on, if one could say so in public terms. In situations where there is no urgent need for life, or where there are no strong medical operations in progress, the province is obliged to tender the services. Why? Not because the government is particularly active, as many people here are accusing, and deliberately wants to look for a hole in private service production, which I do not consider particularly bad in the field of emergency care as such. In my opinion, this country is full of honest ambulance entrepreneurs, and small-scale entrepreneurship has been a great deal in these services over the years and decades. But the background is the EU position. Unlike emergency care, the EU has seen non-emergency transfers as an economic activity. And since these services have had to be decoupled from this entity, obliging, as it were, a clear private role in the provision of services in accordance with EU regulations, this is limited to those services where there is no strong involvement with the services of the authorities and the activities of the authorities. I hope this will clarify this point, which has given rise to much amazement, as far as these speeches are concerned. So this is a complaint to the EU about the role of private service provision as a whole in emergency care. In the context of that act, it has been decided in the proposal that private individuals should be strongly involved in service production through competitive tendering in non-first-care transfers. I mean, not in emergency care, but in non-emergency transplants. And, Mr President, if you will allow me, I think it would be terribly important to think about the fact that in an ageing Finland, where our objective is that elderly people should live at home for as long as possible, we need to find new service solutions to support their survival at home.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, we still have about 5 minutes left to do this. I would ask those representatives who now want to make a reply, to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u168	Mr President! It was interesting to hear the Minister's answer to this surprise as to why, in these non-urgent patient transports, these transports must now be subject to competition from the provinces. I personally believe that this government war is going very far on market terms, and it is because of this cow trade discussed above, where the centre has received the provinces and then the coalition receives this market-based war. When you open up social and health services to the market, there are so many things that come to what can then be regarded as an activity of its own — something that can be kept public and which is, as it were, forced to open up to competition. And this is the big question with which we have had to wrestle in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. For a long time, we have been working together with experts on laboratory and imaging services and their role in this mess.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u169	Mr President! When these government proposals relating to social protection are brought here to the House by drop and even the experts of the Committee on Social Affairs and the Constitutional Affairs find it difficult to get a clear picture of whether people's fundamental rights are being realised in this big picture, then it is appropriate to criticise them. The Services Fees Act is important for the realisation of fundamental human rights, and there is now very little time for an in-depth assessment, Minister. If it is thought that, during this reign, there is a genuine desire to make progress in the war, then Parliament should be able to deal with all these elements thoroughly so that the situation does not arise in the next term of the government that the damage was brought about and the fundamental rights of the people are not realised. That is what this concern is about. That is not a criticism, Minister, to you personally,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u170	Mr President! We parliamentarians come from very different regions, and I must say that my own country has successfully used a multi-producer model in first care, and I claim that we would not succeed without a multi-producer model. In that sense, there is nothing dramatic about this event. I believe that the primary objective of having service providers available should be to reduce the delay in reaching the emergency patient, as has been the case. I think it makes sense for us to have all the resources at our disposal. Like Mr Laihon, my career is from that emergency services, and I have seen in practice how good models work. It is important that now, with this amendment to the Health Care Act, we do not budge anything like that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u171	In the agreed time, we will be able to make Mr Tanus' speech and the Minister's speech will be 1 minute. Then this window of time will be closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u172	Mr President! Just as has been said above, I can say that good cooperation, carried out by various actors, works well, and that is what we would like to continue to do. I wanted to thank the Minister for opening up the competition for this non-emergency transport. This means transports where the patient does not need continuous monitoring and treatment on medical grounds and these transports can be carried by a variety of patient transport vehicles, not only ambulances or patient transport vehicles suitable for the transport of more than one patient, but also various taxis. I would like to ask, however, when it is important that this tendering is done correctly and that all the necessary factors are taken into account in the tendering process, considering that the patient's condition may change, even though it has been assessed differently in the first place, do you see that there is sufficient competitive competence in the field,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u173	Minister, 1 minute from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u174	Mr President! In addition to these last speeches: Thus, the existing possibility of implementing these services through a multi-producer model will remain, but the new legislation will perhaps be more explicit in its own role in this large package of services. One big part of this is that private people are not involved where they are at the very core of official duties. That's right, as it was said here: This change now appears to be terribly different, larger or smaller, depending on the country of origin of the people, because we have had a strong decision-making power in the regions to implement these services as they see fit. Mr President, that decision-making power is very much maintained, except for this EU-conditioned transfer of patients, which must be competitive. The rescue service itself can also participate in it as a company. Above all, it is essential that, if a market failure arises, it should in any case be protected as its own public production.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u175	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u176	We will now resume the debate on item 7 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u177	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u178	Mr President! Now we move on to the third important set of proposals, and I am glad that this referral debate will perhaps now allow us to open up a little longer on what the proposal is about, because I have seen that this has already been condemned in public on a number of occasions. This proposal relates to the reform of social welfare and health care on-call activities approved by Parliament in 2017 and to the large entity in which the division of work in special care in Finland has been changed in such a way that it is actually possible to conclude that no hospital is unchanged in terms of its role and functions, not the smallest regional hospital or the largest hospital district, HUS, with its hospitals. This presentation allows for urgent surgery requiring anaesthetic and surgical conditions — that is, an anesthetic — or other non-emergency measures requiring general anesthetics to be performed in an operating unit where there is no day-to-day joint emergency service, under certain strict conditions. As part of the reform of the division of work in emergency services and special care, the Health Care Act introduced an obligation for surgical operations requiring operating room conditions and anesthesia to be assembled in hospitals with 24-hour emergency services from both primary and special care. Now this amendment makes a certain degree of relaxation, but, on the other hand, it also lays down the conditions which must definitely be met. The main motivation behind this proposal is that the provision that entered into force in 2017 created an unclear interpretation of how the provisions apply to operations purchased from private service production in which people are put to sleep. The volume and volume of these are not particularly high, but they currently act in certain medical districts, for example, as a major outlet for congestion or as a purchase of a particular type of surgical operation by means of service vouchers or other means from an external private operator. In some parts of Finland, hospital units that have been given to private health care, in which the hospital district has transferred the practical implementation of the tasks to private individuals, have also fallen into an unclear situation, but have still been carried out with public money. That is why this provision is now intended to clarify that a private and public service provider is, in principle, bound by similar criteria, a similar quality of activity, and that the starting point will continue to be, even after this reform, to keep to the big objective that, in Finland, cutting operations, albeit very small, but of course as an important part of health care and special care, will be regulated and the law will limit where all kinds of cuts can be made. So this debate is now limited to operations that are surgical operations by anesthesia, not the whole of special medical care, not all hospitals, let alone all the solutions that lie at the edge of the swamps. Mr President! The aim of this package is to ensure that patient safety and quality are maintained in cutting units so that, for the patient, regardless of whether the hospital district or, in future, the province assigns him or her a private or public hospital, he or she may know that they are treated in the same way as regards quality criteria. As far as this much debated issue is concerned, is the government, with this proposal, creating a separate band or a facilitated position for private health care? This is an idea that I definitely want to spell out. With this proposal, a hospital whose geographical distance to the unit, in practice to a central public hospital with an intensive care and emergency care unit, is less than 30 minutes, can carry out surgical operations because, in the name of patient safety, it has been estimated that it is a journey that can be kept sufficiently humane, for example from the point of view of saving human life. But if that unit is private, then it does not have to set up its own emergency services and an intensive care unit, there would be no resources to do so, nor would the medical experts. But also a public unit, which is separate from the hospital’s hottest intensive care unit, for example in Helsinki or Tampere, will certainly then be legal, and not a separate unit which, in a certain way, is now in a strange regulatory situation when the law states that in the same premises there must be joint emergency services and intensive care, even if operations are carried out there. Mr President! The purpose of this proposal is, therefore, to ensure that, in the event that the hospital district so decides, as many medical districts have decided at present in small volume, the possibilities for private surgery can continue to be exploited if the hospital district itself considers it necessary. Then, as it were, this type of buffer and additional capacity and its system bear the financial responsibility of a private service provider relying on the decision of the public service representatives whether or not to purchase services from the private sector. The main idea is, in any case, that regulation, for example, on the extent to which certain cuts are to be carried out, is equally justified on both sides. Later, Mr President, the regulation will define more precisely the conditions for cutting operations, such as the minute limit I mentioned here. Of course, this does not fall within the law level, nor does the volume requirements of the regulation for certain cuts on the public side, which have previously been laid down by the regulation. The regulation will therefore provide for both these times and volumes, at the heart of which is patient safety and the patient's right to know that the same quality requirement applies to public money cuts in different units, regardless of their private or public status. Mr President! Finally, I admit that this proposal has not been particularly easy to prepare, especially because the Finnish health care field is not entirely united on this issue. The proposal has faced enormous opposition from both the public and the private side. This has also been accompanied by the fact that the Finnish hospital network is fragmented and very different from each other and is looking for very different roles and needs. I personally would like to see two points recalled in this debate: Firstly, the fact that the core is always in the decisions of the hospital district and the future province: whether they want to use private service production, whether they need it as a buffer and support for, for example, the fulfilment of the care guarantee in the operations of surgery. Secondly, we are only talking about anesthetic surgery, not about the whole of special medical care, not about opening up the market on a large scale, but about small volume operations, because at the moment private cuts are mostly in the case of public money, some non-suspension-requiring operations.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, this is probably the cause of the debate. I give the first response to the debate to Mr Kurkinen. He was the only one standing in line for the actual speech before the beginning of the sitting. — Mr Keränen, you have the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u180	Thank you, Mr President. Representatives of government parties tend to praise government proposals, but I have to admit that it is difficult for me to praise them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u183	Mr President! It has been known throughout this parliamentary term that in the government's order of values the market goes past man and past good care. Mr President! It is no wonder that even the own representatives of the government parties will no longer be able to keep up with the government's market heat, because this is a perfectly good business model. First, you have driven down public surgery from dozens of localities. These patients are transferred to central hospitals and university hospitals. And now, in this way, you tailor the possibility of transferring these patients to the private and profits there, and if anything goes wrong, then nothing but the patient back to the public and the cost there. This is the culmination of friend capitalism. This is the war business of this government, the culmination of friend capitalism. Hand to heart, Minister Saarikko: do you really hope that Parliament will accept your proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u184	Mr President! We are dealing here with extremely important, extremely important issues on a very busy schedule as the evening gets darker. Now we really have to wonder about the government: what are you thinking when you have brought such a proposal here? First, by means of a centralization regulation, you have stopped operating in many regional hospitals, and now you are actually making it possible for private health service companies to operate in surgery, and, above all, this proposal has nothing to do with social and health reform. Now, let's break the cow deal. Even if the social welfare reform goes down, even if the regional reform falls for one reason or another here in Parliament, the Coalition Party can pat its hands together. Its aim to privatise social services will be achieved through this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u186	Mr President! It is so that under the leadership of the Coalition Party, we see under our eyes how Finnish public health care is privatised at a rapid pace. There is nothing left of public health care after this government's term of office if the war goes through. I would be interested in this question raised above, how is it possible, first, that you ban the operation of surgery from these public hospitals and then give it to private operators and without any conditions at all? If a private makes a mistake, there will be complications, then the public will take care of, the taxpayer will take care of. Is this not this the policy of raisins, which is now being done here on the terms of the coalition? Apparently, the center does what the coalition says. There's nothing left for you. If the war falls, you will not have provinces, but Finnish health care has been privatised with this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u187	Mr President, värderade talman! I agree with what has been said above. Mr Keränen gave a good speech in particular. I also wonder why this change is suddenly being brought to this. The Health Care Act removed the possibility of surgical intervention from regional hospitals, including Pietarsaari Hospital, which has worked very well, and the justification was that it was necessary to concentrate both resources and skills and to increase patient safety. Then why all of a sudden? Now, private people would be allowed to perform these anesthetic surgeries, but not regional hospitals. I really don't understand.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u188	Mr President! I must say that this is rarely the case when I would like to criticise the current government as I am going to criticise it on this issue. I would ask the government representatives to read, for example, what Answers.fi says about cream peeling: “What cream peeling? Marketing term related to pricing.’ This is not just the raisins from the bun, it is precisely the cream peeling that the private sector will do and carry out at this stage. I also wonder whether Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, who referred to this regulation on concentration and on-call, with which we were so busy, had not been able to wait for it until this whole reform of the social security system had been carried out as a single reform. I would like an answer to that. Why have you been so busy? There will now be no freedom of choice in smaller localities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u189	Mr President! Yes, this is an all-time scam in the history of Finnish health policy. First of all, a centralisation regulation is being introduced to put an end to the operation of surgery in public regional hospitals, and now such an exception clause is being introduced, creating an unprecedented market for private health business and centralising services. In public hospitals it is quite perplexed that first the joint on-call obligation is removed from everyone and allows private surgery to be done in business and then creates such a 30-minute fully artificial time limit, which means that services are only offered in the largest cities. For example, the surgery activities at Raahe Regional Hospital will stop, and this will have dramatic effects on the vitality of the entire province. Has this regional economic aspect not even been considered by the city centre? Similar effects are felt throughout the country: cuts are concentrated in the largest cities, public hospital networks are driven down, private health business is rampant, flourishing. How can you, downtown, accept this?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u190	Mr President! I understand that it is difficult for the Minister to listen to these speeches, and I am sure it is not pleasant to listen, and I believe that in many ways you agree with the opposition on this matter. I myself have always felt and understood that the aim of the concentration regulation was to strengthen the functioning of central hospitals and thus to increase patient safety. This idea now threatens to disappear if a private service provider is given the opportunity to do this unsolicited cutting, but it is prohibited from regional hospitals. It seems perverse that special care is outsourced, but in the event of a problem, the central hospitals will deal with any problems. The private sector does not have to take responsibility for emergency services or problems. It can only peel off the cream, as Mr Östman pointed out. I would ask, Minister: how and why can such a proposal be part of your proposal? I don't think it's worth the city itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u191	Mr President! First of all, it is good to thank the Minister for his honesty that you said that, yes, there should be both public and private in urgent Finnish surgery on the same line. That is precisely what is being called for here, when difficult decisions have been taken here at the end of 2016, under the leadership of the government, in which dozens of hospitals throughout Finland were shut down in anesthetic surgery, so why does it not apply to the whole population? Now that there was a fear that it would also apply to private cutting activities, that the linens were caught and quickly brought to Parliament regardless of the war, regardless of the decisions taken, the proposal to tailor the conditions for the private sector to continue to operate quite differently. This isn't, you know, anything but robbery capitalism. This is shocking that this can be done. The same government first drove down public activities across Finland and now proposes that the different criteria, the different lines, should be such that the private sector should now be allowed to operate in a lighter way, so the same rules should apply.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u192	Mr President! I, too, must join in the criticism expressed in this Chamber by a number of Members, and I would say that we have had a debate with Minister Saariko on this artificial 30-minute limit and on the situation of the cutting hospitals. And I am really sad that the operation in Raahe seems now to be sealed, doomed and driven down, and that is not the case with this 30-minute deadline, but, as is well known, Article 45(3) of the Health Care Act, and it was voted in this Chamber at the end of 2016. And in honour of Mrs Keränen, I am sure she did what she had to do in her own group, but it was not enough. And that is what must be said to the Central Party in the run-up to the elections, but certainly even after the forthcoming elections, that we must wonder how you went to sell your own principles. Why?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u193	At this stage of the debate, I will give the floor to the representatives of Essayah and the Judgments and then to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for 2 to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u194	Mr President! The centralization decree was adopted in due course for patient safety. It was considered to be a justification and started in Finland to drive these well-functioning, efficient regional hospitals down to the point of emergency surgery. There went Iisalmea, Forssa, Raahe [Department : Saint-Petersburg! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, there are quite a few replies. I will keep them here now, but before that, Minister Saarikko, three minutes from the can.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u196	Thank you, Mr President. In this context, I would like to quote today's update, which has been made by a well-known health professional under his own name: 'This is an impeccable act from Minister Saarikko. First, he issued a centralization regulation, which ended the operation of many regional hospitals, even though the hospital had staff and expertise. Now comes a new legislative amendment which will pass these very elective cuts on to companies. If there is a complication, the patient will be transferred to the public side, which the taxpayer will pay again. This amendment of the law, called Lex Terveystalo, should not be accepted. Sipilä’s government is moving into a dangerous situation in Finland’s health care.” It is certainly not a social democrat, it is not a green left, it is a health professional, and my own observation is that all those health professionals who do not either have their own corporate cow in the ditch or have ties to maintaining government authority.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u198	And now, Minister Saarikko, three minutes from the speaking room.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u199	Mr President! I will respond, if at all, to the criticisms and questions that have been raised with regard to this proposal, but first of all I will come back to what hospital activity is. I would also like to say that I come from the province itself, where there have been many regional hospitals and that is still the case after all these changes. In fact, we still have more of them in Varsinais-Suomi: Uusikaupunki, Loimaa, Salo. In fact, I have wondered a lot about whether we lost regional hospitals when we left the line that there will be no anesthetic surgery and that we will require, as it were, the operation and emergency services to be connected. All these district hospitals are still lighting up. All over these things, they treat patients. I think that we all need, despite the fact that it is quite certainly justified to criticise this, as is the case with other proposals on the division of work in special care, a common understanding of what special care is today. I was surprised, for example, when I realized that a lot of criticism and some admiring cancer hospital Docrates, which in itself is not at the heart of this proposal, is a hospital in which no surgery is actually carried out, but all the other things that are at the heart of special care are done there. So special medical care is much more than surgery that requires anesthesia. Mr President! When even the strongest words are used here to describe this motion — perhaps not even to repeat all your words, they were delightfully colorful and rightful to the opposition —
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u204	Mr President! This is not going to change if we explain it. Unfortunately, this is a fact. With regard to the reform of social welfare and health care, you went down the road of centralisation by assembling a demanding emergency clinic in 12 hospitals in Finland, and here a lot of places fell off the train. The operations ended not only in Raahe, but also in Forssa, Iisalme, Kouvola and Rauma, and even in Kem, this certainly accelerated a number of solutions that are not so pleasant. But in regional hospitals, public surgery was driven down. At the time, we argued that the proposal would be rejected. The entire hospital network should have been decided on in connection with this disease. It has now become a completely separate and separate matter and, as has been said here in other speeches, this whole has been re-returned so much that it is difficult to get a proper picture of this. But now we are giving private operators a cutting operation. It can be said that this is a proposal tailored to purely private operators, and this does not change any further by explaining this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u205	At this stage of the debate, I will give the floor to the representatives of Mr Andersson, Mr Anttila and the chairman of the committee, Mr Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u206	Mr President! Former Minister of War Juha Rehula recently stated in public that when he was a minister, he felt like he was just a pawn in a game controlled by market forces, and so he referred to this social security reform. In fact, as a result of this debate, I would like to ask Minister Saarikko: do you have a feeling similar to that of Juha Rehula when he was a minister? There has been talk of patient safety here, but the reason why the government went to centralize these anesthetics was about savings. The aim was and will continue to be to achieve savings of EUR 350 million in special care. So this was the reason why the concentration was started. Now the government is creating an exception to its own rules of concentration and is doing so in a way that is of particular benefit to these large profit-making health groups, i.e. to create a situation,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u207	Mr President! At the end of 2016, the amendment to the Health Care Act made the very decisions that have been discussed here regarding the centralisation of special care, and one of the reasons for that was not only savings, but also that patient safety would be improved through this. Now we have seen that surgery in regional hospitals under anesthesia has moved away, and of course it is a loss of vitality in the region — that is something we all agree on. And what is being done there is mainly a special medical clinic, but it is also on condition that we get doctors from the central hospital because doctors are not easy to get. My question in relation to this reform is a very serious concern as to what is going on with public sector doctors when the private sector does not even have to be on call.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u209	Mr President! This point of view, which has just been raised, seems to me to be one of the key points of concern to Parliament today. Loss of beneficiaries is a major challenge for the future in social welfare and health care. If we imagine that this new proposal would have no effect on who will be working in the medical districts, possibly in the provinces to come, then at the latest we have to wake up. It's so serious that this kind of show is being brought in. There were echoes in the opposition parties and also in the government parties in 2016 as to whether it would make sense to make decisions on this subject, both in terms of cutting operations and on-call services, in connection with the social welfare reform. You know, the first version of the social welfare reform is already in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but there is a completely different basic solution there, and we are now trying to avoid that the conditions that are already before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs are not covered by the private sector in this social welfare reform. Yes, this is an inconceivable ground situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u210	Ladies and gentlemen! The President-in-Office’s proposal for this debate also includes: ‘A maximum of 30 minutes is reserved for a referral. “
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u211	Mr President! This is now a completely exceptional situation in Parliament. Here is the proposal, the Minister's proposal, which is no longer even part of the market economy: profits for private individuals, patients for private individuals, but if anything happens, then costs for the public. I would like to draw attention, Mr President, to the fact that no representative of this House's government has defended this Minister's proposal in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u214	Mr President! We were fiercely opposed to the concentration regulation recently because we felt that measures requiring anesthesia and surgery could also be taken safely in units that do not have 24-hour emergency services, as has been the case for years and decades. Well, then, when this presentation came, I thought that, well, now we have woken up and corrected this flaw, but this proposal does say that in the special care of the municipality there could be no surgery or other measures requiring anesthesia and operating room conditions. And in addition, just as representative Keränen pointed out, yes health care is able to assess the risks, so that a 30-minute trip or such restrictions, as presented here, are not for this day. In that sense, this seems somehow unfair and uneven. I'd really like this to happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u215	Minister, 1 minute from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u216	Mr President! Representative Andersson felt that the extensive division of work in this special care package had been the basis for savings during this parliamentary term. That is true, it is one of the key elements of this whole, just as our view of the emphasis on basic health care is to ensure the adequacy of the experts. I would also like to stress that this proposal is a way of clarifying the role that a private person already has, the voluntary purchase of services that hospital districts carry out for certain surgical operations, for example, when fulfilling the conditions of the medical guarantee and in pursuing them. Mr President! I have been asked if I hope that Parliament will deal with this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u219	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u220	We will now resume the debate on item 8 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u221	Madam President! At present, university medical districts have been able to arrange operations requiring anesthetics for operations outside the central hospital if the on-call arrangements are in order. This bill is good in so far as the possibility of a new 45a§1is similar to that of other medical districts other than those of theyo medical districts. This is formally a good thing, and it makes all hospital districts work evenly. But, Mr President, the compass of this bill is precisely in that draft regulation. Paragraph 2 of the relevant section states that the explanatory memorandum to this bill envisages a regulation in which one of the criteria for such a contract surgery hospital would be that the contract hospital has a transfer distance of no more than 30 minutes to that central hospital, a support hospital. In practice, we still have former regional hospitals where a private operator performs surgery on behalf of the hospital district. There are also hospitals in the yo-hospital districts where surgical operations requiring anesthesia are performed in accordance with current legislation. This proposal seems to have forgotten that there are large regions in this country where there are also populous areas where, in view of accessibility, good, ready-made facilities, family conditions for staff and even the vitality of the regions, it would also be sensible, economical and safe to organise surgical operations requiring anesthetics. The new law now presented concentrates all the operations in the central cities. This proposal disciplines those private actors who are still holding out for the people who are more isolated there in different places. Formally, the proposal aims to put these private operators on the same footing as the public operator, i.e. in practice to put a note at the door of the operating room. In Finland, the ethics of special medical care are equally high on both the private and the public side, so at least this is why there is no need for a bill. Mr President! However, each operating unit is able to assess how high-risk patients this hospital is able to perform the surgery. Of course, there may still be unexpected complications, but in such a case it does not matter whether the transfer time is 30 minutes or 60 minutes. Mr President! The smartest thing would be if the parliament could change this that way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u222	Madam President! This is an all-time hoax of health policy in Finnish history. The Government proposes an exemption clause in the Health Care Act, which allows the provision of community-supported surgical operations in hospitals where, contrary to the centralisation regulation, there is no open day-to-day joint emergency services for municipal residents. The proposal is an example of the trade of government parties, which results in the health care system being adapted to the interests of health care companies. According to the Health Care Act, the public sector, i.e. municipalities and joint municipal authorities in the hospital district, is responsible for the infrastructure of health care. They also include expensive on-call duty and preparing for life-threatening or otherwise seriously ill patients without delay and without cost. Of course, the principle is good, because patient safety must be ensured in all circumstances. The above requirement for patient safety has been justified by the centralised operation of surgery. Of course, the background has also been unspoken. The strong savings targets of the Sipilä government, i.e. the cuts in Sipilä's government, were justified by patient safety. Since the practical application of this argument has not given rise to confidence, sudden measures have been taken in various parts of Finland to preserve hospitals. Agreements have been concluded under duress with private health companies so that services do not run away as a result of centralisation. But the government’s present proposal does not reassure the situation. On the contrary, when the proposal comes about, it will not result in equal treatment between private and public hospitals, but in tailoring the law to the dimensions of health companies. In line with market logic, business activity in the sector has focused on the proximity of large emergency hospitals. For example, in Oulu, my home town, there are ten private operating rooms. All of these now meet the requirements of this government's clause of exception. The joint emergency services can be reached within 30 minutes, i.e. the public sector will accept the situation if necessary. If anything particularly serious happens, the responsibility is always transferred to the University Hospital of Oulu. The new regulation of public health care, this clause, is simply not appropriate. In a way, the concentration regulation is being abandoned, conditions are being loosened, just as the Social Democrats have required, but this customisation is not appropriate. An example can be found at home in Northern Ostrobothnia: Hannu Kallunki, Head of the Joint Municipal Authority in Raahe, has demonstrated with a detailed report that Raahe Hospital is unable to deliver an urgent patient to Oulu in 30 minutes, so the operating room operation, which requires anesthetic surgery, will stop there. Services run away, and at least 50 health professionals, workers lose their jobs in an area where jobs are valuable and necessary. Correspondingly, Oulu Hospital There is even more congestion at the end of Oulu, and it has not been said that its planned renovation project, the hospital of the future, is sufficient to provide these new beds. The cost increases and the taxpayer pays. Mr President! According to the Health Care Act, public authorities must ensure the organisation and availability of services for residents under their responsibility on an equal basis throughout their territory. Now this principle of equality and territorial equality is under threat. This government is coercioning people's basic services. It is crumbling the vitality of the regions and increasing insecurity. We have to ask how this is possible on the watch of the Central Party of Finland. Neither are the central cities, nor are the workers in their hospitals who are working under the burden of centralisation. The winners of this are unambiguously companies that have decided their location and range of services in order to achieve the best possible financial result. President! The Health Care Act needs a reform that emphasises the rational economic and equitable development of services. This government proposal is the opposite of good intentions. This is Lex Terveystalo. It must be rejected and, instead, the Lex Kallunki must be adjusted to ensure regional neutrality in services. I myself am prepared to formulate such a proposal. Mr President! We have to return to this earlier debate on referrals in the Chamber. It was a great deal to say that, in that referral debate, Minister Saarikko was able to defend the government's proposal in practice alone. Not found in the assembly, not much of the city center, let alone any other defenders of this performance. Inevitably, President, the question arises as to whether the government intends to take this proposal through. What kind of game, the subject of trading people's health in this country under the leadership of this government, can it be? It should also be borne in mind that this exception arose from the finding that the criteria required by the concentration regulation could also apply to private cutting operations, which is why it is necessary to provide for these deviations from the joint on-call obligation quickly, because it would of course be too much to expect from a private operator on-call duty because it pays. We all know that only society can provide demanding emergency services. That is why the on-call obligation was waived, this customization was made for purely private companies. That is what this proposal is about. Let us see who benefits from this: companies benefit from it. And it is quite clear that with this artificial 30-minute time limit, the public hospitals that might be able to get involved in surgery under these new circumstances, such as the Raahe Hospital in Oulu, will not be able to meet this 30-minute criterion. That's why this show is a wolf. This motion should be rejected, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u223	Mr President! This overall combines the two objectives which would seem to guide all the social and health policies that this government is doing: austerity pressures and cuts in public services and a consistent effort to open up public service provision to the market, i.e. to market-based services. The opening-up of the social services market has been the guiding principle of the government's entire social welfare project from the beginning. The same line of commercial war continues and is well reflected in this government proposal. The savings targets for special care of EUR 350 million decided previously by the Government and the subsequent concentration have had a very significant impact on the activities of regional hospitals and central hospitals throughout Finland, while the anesthetic surgery is concentrated in these large emergency hospitals. As a result of the concentration, many regional hospitals have left operating room capacity which is currently untapped, while on-call central hospitals may not have sufficient additional capacity to invest in it or acquire it by purchasing services from private service providers. As a result of its own centralisation, the government has now arisen to the fact that the private purchase of medical district anesthetics, i.e. the activities of these private service providers, does not comply with the obligations of the health care law and the regulations adopted under it. The solution of the government is, of course, to provide for an exception to its own concentration law, which will benefit these profit-making companies. This half-hour exception rule means that private profit-oriented health care companies who have put a lot of money into premises in large cities and who have no interest in organising very expensive and demanding emergency services themselves can continue to operate and sell services to medical districts and, in the event of problems and complications, send patients to public health and university hospitals on call. The draft law states this quite directly in the following way: ‘The new regulations would allow private operators to offer a wide range of surgery services in the health care districts in the central hospitals and cities without significant increases They could rely on central hospitals as support hospitals, so that they would not need to be significantly prepared for the exceptional circumstances of surgery.’ As far as the situation in special medical care is concerned, the values of this government are therefore well established. Under the guise of savings, public services will be centralised and driven down while opening up the possibility for private profit-making companies to produce the same services. As has been pointed out, if central hospitals do not have sufficient capacity of their own, they will be left with the sole possibility of acquiring these services from a private service provider close to them when, for example, a regional hospital 45 minutes away is no longer suitable for this government. The Government is guided by the idealization of commercialism and health business and not the right of Finns to health and good care.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u224	Mr President! The Government's proposal to amend 312 health care laws has been largely seen as a positive step forward in our provinces. Instead, severe criticism has been caused by the 30-minute time limit requirement between the cutting and intensive care unit in the on-call setting. The Government set the goal of its Government’s term of office to curb the increase in the costs of social welfare and health care. When the age structure of the population and the dependency ratio have changed, the current system does not work by sound financial management rules, but expenditure on increasing social and health care has to be financed by debt money. This is a long-term unsustainable economic activity that must have been done something about, and this has been shared by all political groups. Social and health care reform has largely begun with the idea that health promotion should be the primary task of the municipalities and the task of the wider shoulders of medical care, i.e. the future provinces. The concentration of specialised medical care in university hospitals makes sense in many ways: it focuses on knowledge and the necessary equipment, whose resources are limited on a population-based basis in our smaller country. People rarely need special care services in their lives, so you can travel a distance for treatment. And, of course, it is especially in the patient’s interest that the doctor treating him has the latest knowledge and routine knowledge of the medical field in question. All in all, this concentration on large units is a very sensible idea, especially in the populous areas of Southern Finland. The distances are not long in terms of kilometres. In contrast, the concentration equation in the areas of long distances from Northern and Eastern Finland is no longer so justified. This amendment to the Health Care Act is intended to add a provision that allows the hospital district to organise surgical operations in a unit where adequate on-call preparedness and patient safety are ensured, even if the unit does not have open, 24-hour primary health care and special care joint services for residents. The purpose of the amendment is to place public and private cutting operations on an equal footing. The justifications make it conditional that the operating hospital must have a so-called emergency hospital with intensive care facilities, and this must be achievable within 30 minutes. Mr President! The 30-minute time limit will stop all surgery requiring anesthesia outside the central hospital cities. This applies to both public and private operators. In the area of the Hospital District of Northern Ostrobothnia this means the end of surgery from Raahe Hospital and some time span also from Oulaskangas Hospital. Work has been done to amend the on-call regulation for a 30-minute time-limit requirement, but companies have run hard on the rocks. One must genuinely wonder why this number of minutes is to be included in the on-call regulation, even though doctors and those who understand it do not believe that there is a medical basis. Only doctors and ministerial officials at university hospitals have advocated this one-eyed concentration of surgery on university hospitals. When the reforms on the division of labour and on-call services in special care were intended to achieve savings of EUR 350 million, it is already known that they will not be achieved with this reform. Why should this amount of minutes be used to dismantle the functional division of work between the health care district of Northern Ostrobothnia and regional hospitals in the region, which has been cost-effective? Why is it necessary for an operating unit with only an on-call unit to be able to transfer the patient to an emergency hospital in 30 minutes if necessary, but not in the surgery unit with the joint emergency services of the hospital district? There, too, may be a complication requiring intensive care. We people living within the influence of the hospitals in Raahe and Oulaskaka are sad and shocked that the overall consequences of the time limit requirement have not been taken into account. If the change comes into force, it will mean a reduction in the number of jobs of about 50 people in Raahe and the transition of work to Oulu. Oulaskanka will have even more dramatic effects on jobs and other health care services. I hope and appeal on behalf of the people of Raahe and the Oulainen Region that reason will still come into the hands of those who decide, and such a miracle would happen that the law in question would come into force without the exact number of minutes between the unit that cuts and provides intensive care. In this situation, it would also be a great wisdom to leave it to the future provinces to organise the care of the region as they see fit.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u225	Madam President! This House has had a very good debate and a very important debate on this issue today. First of all, we must criticise the fact that there was only 30 minutes left for the debate on one of the most important legislative proposals in this House, and in that sense I am surprised at this procedure. Now, of course, we will be able to speak on this subject and express our views, but I would have liked much more time to have been reserved for the debate that took place that day. Mr President! It must also be wondered, though, that when the central ministers run such legislative proposals, their representatives in this Chamber will then state that they cannot support this. Of course, that is not what we should do, which is in no way a concentration law or this privatisation law should be supported, but I would like to hope that when we vote in this Chamber, or decide on these legislative proposals, these representatives will also remember what the button is. In other words, in due course this proposal will be decided in this Chamber, and then everyone will be able to prove their speech in practice, that is to say, to vote against this legislative package and not to accept a proposal that opens up the market to private operators and drives down public hospitals, which have so far been well-functioning. This is the logic of Sipilä’s government in developing health care — first centralized and then privatised. The changes to the Health Care Act and the tough criteria in the Emergency Services Regulation have driven down regional hospitals at a high pace, and it is only accelerating. Yesterday, there was indeed news of the end of surgery at the Raahe Hospital, my hometown. Based on regional agreements, Raahe has taken soft tissue surgery, which has facilitated the queue situation in the city of Oulu. These have therefore been cost-effective measures, i.e. there are no reasons or arguments to drive this activity down. However, Raahe Hospital is unable to meet the strict quality criteria set out in the on-call regulation, and this is why this operation, the safe operation of surgery, has been driven down. However, the amendment to the Health Care Act currently under discussion does not help the situation in Raahe, for example, as the trip to a large-scale emergency clinic is over half an hour. I think this is the case everywhere except in Uusimaa. The Government’s proposal to amend the Health Care Act is an arrogant example of how the law has been prepared from the point of view of the primary interests of private companies. With this proposal, the government in practice removes from private companies the same requirements for cutting operations as for public hospitals. Now health companies in central cities are able to collect profits, and the public body is paying. This proposal does not correct the mistake made in this Chamber in 2016 when the amendments to the Health Care Act were voted on. In adopting this proposal, Parliament will open up the health care law market for private health business, regardless of whether or not the war is going through. Decision-making power over the appropriate location of the measures should be left to be agreed between hospitals in each special responsibility area in the framework of general quality standards, instead of strict government control and coercion. I very much hope that this bill and the strict criteria laid down in the regulation will not go through.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u226	Mr President! The centralisation decision taken by the government of the country closed out surgery and 24-hour emergency services from regional hospitals around Finland at the beginning of 2018. This was also the case in Rauma. At that time, the government justified the concentration on two grounds: savings and the endangerment of patient safety in small regional hospital units. It is now known that there were no savings — that is, the savings that Mr Mattila also spoke about earlier in his speech. The aim was to save EUR 260 million, but the latest surveys indicate that this will not happen. In fact, according to a survey conducted by the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, a more realistic savings plan would be set at a maximum of EUR 10 million. So instead of EUR 260 million, which was set to be sought, it now seems that the result would be no more than EUR 10 million. So there was no savings. Well, what about security, the other point on which this concentration was previously justified? First of all, this centralisation clause was introduced into Parliament as an urgent budget law that was passed through the 2017 state budget. At that time, the House was surprised by the hurry and has also been amazed here today in the debate. Deciding on the hospital network with a change in an individual section seemed, at the very least, to be a poor legislative order in a situation where the whole process of social reform and the policies of freedom of choice were undecided. Now we are in a situation where they are still undecided and we are already bringing a correction to this earlier point of concentration that was made. Unheard of. Unheard of. Well, just over a year after all that, then we're dealing here with precision. In order to enable private activity, it has been sought to make such a clarification of the law. The Health Care Act provides for an exception to the provision on non-urgent surgery. In the future, the hospital district could also organise operations requiring urgent operating room conditions and anesthetics in the operating units — underlining: ‘including operating units’ —in which there is no day-to-day joint on-call service. What? Is it now, however, that there is a legal possibility of more extensive surgery, for example at Rauma Regional Hospital, that is to say, an operation that was driven down? Well, I'm afraid not. No, because this legal amendment is a hand-out for private operating companies operating mainly in university hospital cities. That's what this bill is designed for, isn't it? For example, where public regional hospitals were required to stop cutting operations on the grounds of patient safety, a similar type of surgery is now needed in and around large cities. It's not fair. In the regional hospital, good patient safety was based on small-risk surgery, accurate pre-screening and planning and monitoring. And that is exactly what the new regulation is calling for. So that's just how the alleged patient safety risks disappeared? It is now believed that the risks will be minimised in addition to the number of surgeries in the new chapter, that is to say, in this corresponding chapter, which Mr Mattila is also criticising here: urgent cuts must only be carried out at such a distance from the extensive 24-hour emergency services where the patient can be transferred to the emergency care unit in 30 minutes for further treatment. Well, if you read these comments — and it is interesting, in fact, how long this round has been made, the comments were asked for a long time ago, and for some reason this presentation has remained on the way, and it also tells us what this is about — then the statement has been said, among other things, about the 30-minute limit, that it is ‘transparently intended and not based on facts’. I therefore believe that this is a new proposal, which conceals the real intentions of the law in the interests of patient safety and savings, just as was the case with the previous centralisation regulation. Surgery is needed in both the public and private sectors. However, it is the regional hospital network that is important in Finland for the inhabitants of the regions and for the vitality of the regions, as several speakers have already said. As far as the previous debate is concerned, Mr Anttila asked how the experts in these large 24-hour emergency services will be secured in the future, and that is what this is all about. When cuts can no longer be made in these central hospitals due to a lack of skills, the only option left is to buy services from private people. That is why it is with this bill that we can achieve the will that has been driven like a snake into a gun in the last year that this government proposal has been in that preparation, that is to say, more cutting for private companies at the expense of our comprehensive regional hospital network and public activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u227	Mr President! With regard to this draft law, the 30-minute debate in the presence of the Minister was far too short-lived, so that it would seem to be thought that if there was a significant bill, then should this practice be changed, because it would be very important for the Minister to be involved in such discussions. Of course, we can have this debate here no matter how well it is, but there have been so many questions here since the Minister left that I would have liked the Minister to be there to answer, that this was in itself a bad thing for me on this point, although in many other points the 30-minute debate has worked quite reasonably well. Mr President! Now to this actual bill. This bill shows a lot about government ideology and policies. From the point of view of the process, very high quality points cannot be given to the government. I really wonder how the centre has agreed to this. I think it's another cow trade, perhaps. However, criticism of this bill has not only come from the opposition, but also from Members of Parliament in the centre, among others, have agreed that this bill should have been rejected. Even in the debate here, with the exception of the Minister, there were no defenders of the bill. Let us review this process a little further. From the beginning of 2017, a change in the Health Care Act was rushed into force to drive down public surgery outside central hospitals. There seemed to be a great deal of urgency at the time, and this was justified, among other things, by patient safety. And now this same government, again claiming patient safety, wants to make it possible for private operators to make public money cuts outside the central hospital. When this bill is implemented, it will be possible for private operators to continue and expand their operations, even though the Minister in his own speech denied this point of view. These opportunities have been taken away from the public when the surgery of regional hospitals has been discontinued and the experts have disappeared. What's the point of all this? Why was it so urgent to stop operating in regional hospitals in 2017? At the time, the SDP objected and stated that there was no need to rush the matter, because without more detailed information on the content of social and freedom of choice it would not be possible to decide on matters of such importance. Now we see what happens when legislative work is done too quickly without proper impact assessment. The strengthening of private surgery also puts the public sector on call, because it is indeed appropriate to ask where experts will eventually be found when the number of doctors in our country is limited — especially since the private sector may now be more attractive to many professionals when there is no 24-hour emergency service. In addition, the public side must then bear the final responsibility here too, as the patient must be quickly transferred to a hospital with 24-hour activities if necessary. This seems like cream peeling in this respect too. The market model of the Government's social welfare proposal enables the private sector to have a market of more than EUR 5 billion. The government trades with people's health and pays the bill to taxpayers. Who benefits? Private health markets. I hope this bill never comes true. On the other hand, does the government have any intention of taking this bill forward?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u228	Mr President! The central-driven government and its social welfare ministers will be left in the history of the centralisation of specialised medical care and the market economy of Finnish health care. The centralisation of surgery requiring anesthesia and the subsequent resolution of regional hospitals has been one of the government’s health care change projects. The centralisation of surgery in central city hospitals is justified by patient safety and improved quality, but the underlying reasons are the government's savings targets. However, it seems now that these savings will not even be achieved, even if the concentration takes place. The centralisation of the operations has been forced into the medical districts by the amendment of the Health Care Act and the regulations based on the law. Parliament voted on the amendments to the Health Care Act on centralisation in 2016, and the regulations on centralisation have also been adopted during this period by the ministers in the centre. Mr President! What can be saved now should be saved and the mandatory centralisation and concentration regulations laid down in the Health Care Act should be amended in 2016. However, the Government’s proposal to amend the Health Care Act before Parliament today does not save Raahe’s hospital or other regional hospitals. The government is proposing a change in the law that would allow general anesthetic surgery in hospitals other than extensive emergency services, but only if the patient can be transferred to a large-scale emergency unit in 30 minutes. The proposal does not allow for the continuation of surgery in most regional hospitals, as they are usually located further away from the area’s extensive emergency care hospital. It should be borne in mind that the phasing-out of surgery causes the regional hospitals to stalemate more widely, as the organisation of meaningful work packages becomes more difficult and it is more difficult for skilled doctors to stay in the area after the surgery has ended. Mr President! This proposal is therefore in favour of private health companies, and I would not say that they are tailored to them. Public health companies in central cities are opening up as the government pushes down the activities of regional hospitals and cuts in them but allows them to buy services from private hospitals in central cities. You can rightly call the law Lex Health House. The name is apt, since the law transfers routine surgery from central hospitals congested with the dismantling of regional hospitals to private hospitals and, at the same time, skilled doctors move there. However, the public side would be left with expensive emergency services and treatment of complications. This would distort competition between private and public operators in favour of private health giants. It's about orthodox cream peeling. Mr President! The Minister said here that medical districts will not be forced to buy cuts from private people in the future. Well, theoretically, you don't have to, but in practice, you may have to when the central hospital is first congested because of the disengagement of surgery at regional hospitals. This change can also lead to the risk of central hospitals operating and on-call services, as skilled staff can increasingly seek employment in private hospitals for lighter tasks away from the obligation to on-call. Mr President! Instead of this Lex Terveystalo, the Health Care Act and regulations should be amended so as to restore the possibility of organising the division of work between surgery and hospitals in the best way possible so that patient safety care can also be cut in regional hospitals. Forced centralisation dictated by Helsinki is not the right course of action. The question is: why does the government want to set up social welfare regions but then not trust them to be able to make their own decisions on the division of work between hospitals within the framework of general quality standards?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u229	Mr President! The discussion of this law culminates at least from the personal level to that half hour, or 30 minutes. Sometimes it's enough time, sometimes it's not enough. Today, in this Chamber, the debate was held in the presence of the minister for about half an hour, 30 minutes. It must have left many colleagues with the feeling that it was not enough. It would have taken longer. At the end of the speech, I will come back to this half-hour in more detail. The amendment to the Health Care Act in the referral debate concerns the addition of a new provision allowing the hospital district to organise surgical operations in an operating unit that ensures adequate on-call preparedness and patient safety without having a 24-hour joint emergency service. This provision would therefore define the criteria for such activities. All in all, this bill will therefore allow for urgent surgery requiring anesthesia and operating room conditions, or other unsolicited measures requiring general anesthetics, to be carried out also in operating units that do not have 24-hour emergency services. However, I see, contrary to what has been said in this Chamber, that this proposal would create a private cut. It does not have that effect, because that private sector surgery has existed before this year and before this government term, and this proposal does not affect dozens of public hospitals, but still affects a few, and it is quite understandable that the change would be quite large in the regional hospitals affected by this. What conditions have caused the most amazement? So while this is a referral debate, after which the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will only begin to discuss the Government's proposal, during the preparatory work the most surprising thing has been the proposal that the patient should be able to move to a support hospital in 30 minutes. This means a significant change, or even an end, for some private cutting units. During the preparatory work, there are also longer time limits, 45 minutes or 60 minutes. But in order to ensure patient safety, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, has kept to the preparation deadline of 30 minutes. It has also been proposed to abolish time limits and replace them with other quality criteria. It would be a great deal of work to prepare the quality criteria for comprehensive cutting operations, and it seems that it has not been possible with this timetable. However, this 30-minute time limit seems disproportionate in the sense that if you look at my home town of Oulu, for example, that 30 minutes could go in traffic there, as in many other growth centres, and so now this 30-minute time limit, if the Committee on Social Affairs and Health does not come with an exception or flexibility, would be a strong criterion for some hospitals. For example, in Northern Ostrobothnia, in the Oulu University Hospital area, this 30-minute time limit applies specifically to Raahe Hospital. Raahe Hospital works in close cooperation with the Hospital District, and the operations are based on a functional division of work agreed within the Hospital District. Raahe Hospital is about 60 minutes away from Oulu by car. Of course, an emergency vehicle can get there faster, but certainly not within a 30-minute time limit. In Raahe hospital, surgical operations are also economically effective, and if surgery is stopped, the corresponding capacity must be found elsewhere. At the University of Oulu hospital, the projects and investments will be carried out in the next four to five years, and in that sense it would be critical, for example, to acquire the corresponding capacity for surgery. Therefore, the closure of the operations on the basis of the 30-minute time limit is neither operationally nor economically justified at this stage. The Director of the Raahe Joint Municipal Authority, Hannu Kallunki, has suggested that the third paragraph of Section 45, which should be deleted from this amendment to the Health Care Act under discussion, should be worded as follows: ‘Customs operations, whichrequires the conditions of the surgery and anesthetics,will come tococonsorts with 24-hour primary health care and special care emergency services. “ Consequently, the operating activities of the regional hospital and the related division of labour would be left to the future provinces. This change in itself would not jeopardise the division of work between central hospitals otherwise sought by the amendment of this law. When the Committee on Social Affairs and Health starts its work on the law, I hope that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will focus in particular on this time limit, which has therefore been at least 30 minutes, 45 minutes and 60 minutes in preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u230	Mr President! It is, in fact, rather sad that we have heard today how strong the will of this Parliament is over the government-opposition boundaries to change this legislation and how strongly the speeches have been made in favour of the fact that the activities of public regional hospitals should also have been equally valued. Who will defend this law? Where are the people who feel that this law or this concentration has been a good solution? However, even those from the government parties who, as it were, have tried to understand what this law is seeking, have seen risks just like those of the opposition. Why have the regions not been allowed to decide on the division of labour? That is a key, important issue. The regions have knowledge and knowledge of how to decide among themselves, for example, on the division of work in cutting operations, so that the best in the whole region can be achieved. And how could the center have agreed to this? This is also about the vitality of the regions and the vitality of the regions. I have imagined that not all this kind of coercive concentration has taken place before, but now such decisions are being taken. In the autumn of 2017, representative Henriksson took a legislative initiative to address this problem. So this was known and seen. In fact, a number of meetings in which there have been parliamentarians across the government—position limits — and I too have been able to participate in such discussions — have sought to tell the Minister of the region the message that has already happened with the previous centralisation decision, but also what would happen in the areas that have been left behind. In the end, even through this legislative initiative, attempts were made to correct and change the direction when it was seen that mistakes were being made with regard to the closure of regional hospitals. But nothing: the decision that had been taken, which called for savings and patient safety, was firmly adhered to. As we know, the savings have not been made. There have been no problems with patient safety, problems on which these changes could have been made on the grounds. And now we are bringing such a proposal to Parliament, which in fact states that the patient safety and the measures taken in regional hospitals are now allowed for these individuals, when it is 30 minutes away.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u231	Mr President! I was very unclear when I listened to the minister today as to why the government wanted to bring this proposal here to Parliament. In my opinion, the Minister was not able to make a credible argument for the benefits of this bill, at least from the point of view of the citizens who need services. It is particularly difficult for me to understand what the centre is doing here. The Coalition Party did get what they wanted, but what the hell is downtown getting? The centre has always spoken on behalf of the regions and regionalisation, but we are now concentrating health services on the last. Of course, the centre has given up the defence of the regions since the beginning of this reign. This has been seen in many other areas than this. With regard to this bill, too, the question remains as to why the impact assessment has not been carried out properly. For example, the regional impact is almost entirely absent from this bill, and the impact assessment is very poor anyway when I look at it. I think that if the government had carried out an in-depth benefit-risk analysis, this proposal would have failed, for this proposal will not benefit other than private health companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u232	Mr President! Earlier in the debate, some of my colleagues pointed out that this legislation is starting to operate in private surgery and is, in a way, increasing it. The latest blog by Kirsi Varhila, Director General of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, has just caught her eye, and I am now quoting these amounts from that blog. In other words, the Welfare Association estimates that the public buys cuts from private individuals on an annual basis for some EUR 300 million. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the volume of anesthetic surgery is approximately EUR 170 million. With the new criteria, 80% of the current volume of private individuals would be in line with the law in the future, so the volume of private individuals should decrease from now on and at the same time clarify which and which units can be cut with public money. The government proposal before us also contributes partly to that aspect of integration, but there is certainly also criticism. In conclusion, however, I am defending Minister Saarikko, although I did not hear the debate all the time, in the sense that this law puts the private and the public at the same level, although I hope that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will come back to this time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-09-ps-138.u233	Mr President! On this 30-minute time limit and its artificial nature, we have to say: I find it somewhat perverse that, for example, in Satakunta, a patient can drive from Rauma to Pori for surgery, be in the day-surgery operation for a day and be returned to Rauma in the afternoon, and if anything happens after that, he is longer than this 30-minute time limit and is not a patient safety risk, but if it were done the other way around, so that this person living in Rauma would drive his car back to that Rauma regional hospital in the morning and have had surgery there and would have been on his way to recovery after the day-surgery, it would be a patient safety risk. There's something very strange and twisted here that I don't understand, and I'm not the only one. For example, HUSin Lasse Lehtonen has raised a similar point, stating that this 30 - minute time limit does not work, for example, in day surgery, precisely because the patient can be 100 km away from the hospital at home when complications begin. “If urgent surgery is performed during the day and there is a Furthermore, there are contradictions to the fact that the objectives of the proposal state that the reforms on the division of labour and on-call care in special care were designed to achieve savings and that the changes now being proposed are to be implemented in such a way that the savings targets can be achieved. This is therefore stated in the objectives of the proposal. However, when I later read about the economic effects, it is stated that the proposal is not considered to have significant economic effects. So, what's it going to be? Is this proposal intended to be part of the savings and austerity measures, or is this proposal not having an economic impact? Well, I don't know what the consequences of this will eventually be, because here, of course, it's about time we met whether this bill will be able to go through Parliament again before the end of the season. It follows that, if this is not possible before the end of the parliamentary term, then the current activity is probably illegal and the aids are apparently interfering with the current activities, and the big question is, what happens if this proposal does not pass?
