ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. Welcome, everybody! I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the Minister to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u2	Let us start with the Socialist Group, where Mr Mäkinen asks the question, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u3	Mr President! The operation of the Sipilä Government has been guided by market first thinking. Its key architect has been Minister Berner, who is now returning to business. In government politics, people have been left on the sidelines and have been placed in unequal positions. This has hit the most vulnerable Finns. One of the most flagrant examples is the taxi reform by Minister Berner, which has brought panic and insecurity to the lives of people with memory problems, people with disabilities and those close to them. The SDP line is different. We always want to put people ahead of the market. I ask Minister Berner: are you still of the opinion, after everything that has been seen and experienced, that the market can take precedence over people in political decision-making?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u4	Madam President! I have never felt that people can be put above the market. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u5	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u6	Mr President! The unhealthy link between the market and politics is now once again on the agenda of Minister Berner's intention to move into the service of a large foreign bank. [of the Group of the European People's Party: To the task of trust!]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u7	Mr President! First of all, I learned about this at the same time as Minister Berner when the company announced it publicly. This is how listed companies work. [Heckling] There are quite a few of us Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament who act as ministers who are on leave from some other task when they leave. This is not a full-time job but a candidate for membership of the board of a foreign company. At the same time, we have ensured and agreed and the Minister has made it clear from the outset that he is not at the same time a member of the government and a minister. It has also been clarified today by the company in question with its press release.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u8	The previous question was a bit like a two-part question, and two groups here also had issues relating to these matters. Let's take them here. — — — — Tavio, representative of the Finnish People's Parliament Group.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u9	Madam Speaker! Prime Minister Sipilä, you said four years ago that you were going to run Finland like a company. We did not know at the time that you were going to sell this company, just as you sold your own company back in the day. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u12	Mr President! I have never said in such a way that a state or government can run like a company, but it is much the same. It is the same that we set a common goal, we are enthusiastic about it and we are determined to pursue that objective. These objectives have been, for example, to raise the employment rate at last and finally to 72%. The target has been 140,000 new jobs — or 110,000, and 140,000 new jobs have been realised. We have managed to balance public finances early in the day. That is the similarity that exists in the management of any community. Set targets, pursue that goal with determination and do all the necessary things, for example, that as many Finns as possible get a job.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u13	Then there is the question of the Swedish parliamentary group, Mr Blomqvist.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u14	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Den nya taxilagen harsakat en hel del discussion under den Senaste tiden, och av flera olika orsaker. Särskilt problematisk har situationen variant med den så kallade FPA-taxin. Vi har under den senaste tiden fått lasa och hura om om otoliga problem med det nya FPA-taxisystemet. Vi vet att det är svårt att få tag på taxi över huvud taget eller så har taxin variant försenad.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u15	Mr President! This competition for Kela taxis has been organised precisely as a result of the traffic arch project, when the general maximum price regulation for taxis was coming to an end and the old contracts were going to expire, and yes, my view is that this has been done in the best possible way since the entry into force of the Transport Services Act. But it is true that the rides conducted through these brokerage centres have not been the same throughout Finland, but by mutual agreement Kela is also reorganizing the transports of Uusimaa that you have specifically mentioned. On the other hand, the situation in other parts of Finland has been brought to a satisfactory level at least.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u18	Mr President! It is not a question of whether politics is allowed to move into business. The question is that when you have a task with a high responsibility for ensuring that trust is not compromised in any way, how to manage that transition. For example, when the Minister of Economic Affairs, Mr Häkämies, joined the business community 11 days after his announcement, he left his ministerial role precisely because there was no debate — and then there was talk of carnival. Did I hear you correctly, Mr Sipilä, and can you confirm that you did not really hear about this until the SEB announced this proposal from the Nomination Committee? Didn't you hear me before? And if you did not hear, how do you feel that this was a plan in which the Minister would have worked at the same time in the service of a foreign bank and in the Finnish government?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u19	I hear Secretary Berner wants to answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u20	Madam President! It is extremely important that confidence in politics is maintained. One aspect of politics is also that politics must be able to come from outside it and must also be able to return to it at the end of this mission. Before that, I was also in the management and trust of the listed company, and I gave it up. I am well aware of the regulations that accompany it. I also know that this is precisely why it is important that there is no duplication of tasks. Regrettably, the stock exchange company has annual general meetings, and decisions can be made on them so that the task begins later after the last task has ended. This has been done in Finland before. I have specifically wanted to see to it that there is a systematic and confidence-building approach here, and there has never been a plan for this to be taken up by me while I am still sitting in this position.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u21	Prime Minister Sipilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u22	Mr President! I didn't know until the stock exchange announced it. The minister was trying to reach me. I had five prime ministers here as a guest and I didn't have a phone on at the time, like I don't have food when I have guests. So that's where I got the information. Well, is this overlap possible? No, it's not. It has been discussed that this task cannot overlap with that of the Minister, and that is what will happen. The company has announced today that the mission will begin on 1 June. We must all remember in this Chamber that this is only a question of candidacy, and this possible appointment will not be made until the general meeting, which I think was in the last days of March.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u23	A supplementary question, Mr Lindtman first and then Mr Filatov. Then we'll go to another group.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u24	Mr President! As I said earlier, it is not a question of whether politics can move into business. It is a question of how it will be done in such a way that the demand, the high demand, the trust and the impartiality of the minister will not be jeopardised. So now it seems that the Minister himself has already known in January that this kind of candidacy is possible, but has not told the Prime Minister, and only after this became a public fuss, did you change the plan so that you will accept this task until June — after the Chancellor of Justice paid attention earlier. What is important here is that it is important that ministers act in accordance with trust, according to what has been stated in the Constitution. Prime Minister Sipilä, I ask you: when there is a statute for officials, do officials have any information that the ministers do not have? How do you see this in the light of what has happened, whether it would be appropriate for ministers, as officials have today, to be subject to tough rules?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u25	Madam President! In this Chamber, too, we have laid down regulations for Finnish listed companies according to which information about this kind cannot be shared with an outsider. Nor have I been informed of this information, and that is precisely because Sweden has rules similar to those in Finland. And this information that came the other day is enough for me. In the event that I was informed, the most important thing was to ensure with the Chancellor of Justice how to deal with this possible situation, and with the Chancellor of Justice, it has been said, together with the Chancellor of Justice, that taking up the task in the Department of Delivery would not be an obstacle, but now we have agreed together — and the Minister has always left it — that he is not at the same time a minister and a member of the Board of Directors of the Bank.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u26	And again, Minister Berner. — By way of exception, two speeches from the ministers, one from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u27	Madam President! I have had a discussion with the Attorney General in January about the fact that I had received several job offers. I asked him what was the right course of action. The Chancellor of Justice told me that I was allowed to hold a debate on a matter of trust, but I am not allowed to hold a debate on permanent operational work. At that point I wanted to know what this was. I would also like to remind you that we have binding rules, and I would also remind you that when we talk about a listed company that applies for positions of trust, the listed company itself informs and all those who know the content of the prospectus are inside. My family didn't know about this nomination. It came to me on very short notice, and I didn’t know it, either, except at the end. But I would also like to remind you that the Prime Minister's Office instructs the Minister to declare his duties as tied up immediately before he becomes Minister but is obliged to give them up because they jeopardise confidence in his activities as Minister. The Minister does not need to give up such tasks on a permanent basis,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u28	Mr President! When you look at this issue from the perspective of a non-exchange shark, so it seems that when you are nominated for a task, you are also mentally committed to it and striving for it. That effect certainly exists in these situations, and we should therefore consider the methods of doing so, not only now through official systems, but also in order to maintain confidence in general. If we think about this market problem, then there is no patience in a completely free market to grow a whole person or a whole tree. And now if we look at this taxi reform, we have all received a lot of feedback about it, and that feedback has come after this reform, not before. The most recent message is from a daughter with complete anxiety, whose father was hospitalized because she was unable to attend a normal medical visit. When I was a kid, I was taught that if you pour the milk, you have to clean it up. My question is, how do you clean up this cab mess?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u29	Madam President! The availability of taxis and the number of taxis, the number of taxi permits, have been on a systematic decline since the 1960s. Before this taxi reform, we had a number of municipalities where quotas were not full. The quality and availability of taxi services has deteriorated over the years. Without us doing anything, this situation would have continued the spiral of obsolescence. Today, the number of taxi licenses has increased throughout the country, in all municipalities except 23. We have almost 3,000 cars and more traffic permits than before. We have more service providers than before. Not all solutions have been found in five or six months, but this legislation is
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u30	Madam Speaker! In the story of Minister Berner in Finnish politics, his role in it is very questionable. We remember how, Sipilä, you made Berner move, defect, from the assembly to your ranks before the election, and you promised him a ministerial portfolio. Since then, he has been allowed to act as your protégé in an intact government, to act as your right hand there and to make some of these dirty reforms. [Department : Inappropriate! ] It is often said that there is no corruption in Finland. Nevertheless, we have seen how representatives of the Government Party from the coalition have moved directly from the preparation of social welfare reform to the service of health giants and big business. This is not so different, but it is just as harsh that the central minister is now going to be appointed at the same time to the Swedish Bank's Board of Directors and continue to operate in the Finnish Government. Well, that's not gonna change if you explain it to me.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u31	Mr President! Power belongs to the people, that's clear. And it is also clear that the truth should be spoken in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u32	Mr President! The representative, Mr Tavio, was here in the previous Question Time, branding the Meyer company in Turku entirely unfoundedly and now making completely incorrect claims about the Prime Minister. I think we should be reasonable. Mr President! It's a lot about entrepreneurship. The Social Democratic Party is talking about a market model and they brand entrepreneurship. They want to increase the tax burden on entrepreneurs, and they also want to act against entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u35	These questions go a long way now, but does Prime Minister Sipilä want to answer? Then let us go to the second question, because now we are starting to break up this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u36	Mr President! Of course, entrepreneurship plays a key role in improving employment. The majority of employed people are still in small and medium-sized enterprises, those face-to-face Finnish companies for which the government has been determined to work throughout the season. We have done about 80 individual measures aimed at increasing the employment rate, and 140,000 new Finns rise to work by the alarm clock on Monday morning than last season. I welcome this every single day and, of course, companies play a key role in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u37	Next question, the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr Yanar.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u38	Mr President! Next week, there will be a huge number of defenders of equal education at the Citizens' Square. The demonstration defends the free second-degree citizens' initiative, which was rejected by the government parties in committee, invoking a one-word technical error — one word. This is contempt for education and for young people. Firstly, the message is that citizens should have top-notch lawyers so that they can draw up citizens' initiatives at all. Secondly, young people were behind the initiative, but they did not get the respect they deserved. Is this really how we encourage young people to believe in politics? Mr Government, about 15 per cent of under 25-year-olds lack a secondary degree. It's a huge number. Now I ask Mr Grahn-Laasonen: why are the government parties against free secondary education?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u39	Mr President! Firstly, with regard to this citizens' initiative: it is a parliamentary process, not a government process. [Interjection from left]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u42	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this particular subject to press the V button and stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u43	Madam President! Unfortunately, the Minister did not answer my question directly. Over and over again, the government has offered free secondary education in response to this educational material supplement you have just mentioned. That is an inadequate means and response. First of all, it is not enough to cover all the costs of studying, as the cost of a matriculation examination, for example, can reach EUR 2500. Secondly, it is paid monthly, when it does not help in those situations when, for example, you should buy a hundreds of euros laptop or workwear. Finland is also negatively distinguished from other Nordic countries, as students in Sweden, Denmark and Norway do not pay for textbooks or materials. For example, the Finnish Research Institute has also presented an experiment on free secondary education. This has to change. Young people in Finland have called for change. It's time to do the honors of training. I would like to ask the Minister once again: why are you taking the side of the study material supplement?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u44	Mr President! The material supplement and the student allowance are actually part of my field of work. This reform, which has been carried out during this parliamentary term, has been done precisely to ensure that it was what could be done now and which will help precisely the most acute need of all, namely to give young people from low-income families a considerable improvement in the current situation and to improve access to secondary education without falling into anyone's grasp of wealth. It is in the interests of both the nation and of the individual that our best talents, despite their social background, can move forward in their studies, and that is precisely what will help that effort. You also want to give support to the children of mountain counselors, the children of rich people who do not need it. You would simply increase public sector expenditure, now that this has been given specifically in a targeted manner as wise as possible and in a way that saves public spending.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u45	Mr President! We are discussing the fundamental issue of educational equality. It must be the basic task of society to provide all of us children and young people with the kind of education that can then support themselves and become an adult, and in this time and today it is a vocational education or a high school, which then goes on to higher education. Well now we have not only young people but also children's organisations under the leadership of the Save the Children Association, who have made a citizens' initiative after years of reflection on the issue, which is the most painful problem for them, i.e. second-degree payment. This initiative has been accompanied by an enormous amount of enthusiasm, passion and desire to change the world. We now had the opportunity to say in committee that we are taking the message of the initiative forward and asking the government for clarification and possible legislative changes. I ask Mr Grahn-Laasonen: are you behind the substance of this initiative?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u46	Mr President! Yes, I am convinced that in Finland, education must be accessible to every young person regardless of their home background, starting with the day-care centres and throughout the entire education system. The aim must be for each of us young people to complete at least a secondary degree and, in the future, at least half of the young adults also to complete a university degree, and we are also building opportunities for continuous learning for everyone. From this week we have good news that the number of young people not in education and working life has fallen in Finland, which means that it is possible to effectively prevent the exclusion of young people by investing in high employment rates and educational opportunities, among other things. In this respect, the government has taken a number of measures, and one of the key things we have been able to do at the moment is the educational material supplement that solves the problem itself, that is to say, it provides financial support for those families who need support, for the high school books and educational materials of young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u47	Madam President! In this area of free secondary education, there was a lot of talk about low incomes from the government, but I personally think that there is talk here of a much wider issue, of an accessible open channel for every young person to build their own future, and that applies to families other than the lowest incomes. I just heard a conversation where the parents of the family wondered if the young person was worth going to high school, and it was precisely from the point of view of payments. In theory, they would probably have the money for this payment, but the payment graded the situation in which the family wonders where the money will be invested. Suddenly, even a youth may be in a situation where parents, as it were, cut off his path because of being faced with its possible payment. This is another example of what this free-of-charge really means. I would also like to ask the government: how do we do all we can to ensure that the second level is an open path to the future for every young person in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u48	Mr President! In order not to confuse home viewers and Finns here: In Finland, we have the valuable starting point that we have a free education system,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u51	Mr President! These initiative makers did a fantastic job in this regard. I cannot think that much more could be achieved seven weeks before the elections than the fact that different parties are taking a stand on such an important issue in their electoral programmes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u56	Mr President! We will certainly find good consensus and unity here that every young person will have to complete at least that secondary degree in the future, and everything must be done to make it possible in Finland. It already starts from early childhood education, good ground and foundation, supporting the school path and strengthening basic education so that everyone reaches basic knowledge and skills. The problem at the moment is, for example, that, unfortunately, those who have completed comprehensive school do not all achieve the diverse literacy and other basic skills that are needed in the second stage and in life, and that is why basic education must also be strengthened. As far as the second stage is concerned, a major educational reform has been carried through here in vocational education and training and also in upper secondary school. So now we have more tools to help young people move forward. For example, one of the key reasons for the suspension has so far been the choice of the sector, the choice of the wrong sector, and it can now be influenced, for example, by the fact that young people can be redirected to new education all year round.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u57	Mr President! Minister Grahn-Laasonen said on several occasions that there is free education in Finland, but the problem is that it is not free at second level. [Left: Right!]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u60	Mr President! I would like to point out that this government has done more to remedy this matter than the government in which you were involved. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u61	Madam President! Of course, we should always look ahead and into the future, and I welcome the fact that many parties are now in favour of extending the compulsory education age and ensuring that every young person has a genuine opportunity to study and to study free of charge. But when you, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, argued that this government has done more than the previous government — the previous government with the Prime Minister’s party — I would like to remind you that the extension of compulsory school life was on the table in the previous government. And what was the party that rejected this motion? [Left: Was it a coalition?]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u62	Mr President! I believe that the citizens' initiative, young people and organisations, appreciate the fact that Parliament takes this concern seriously. The government has also taken it seriously so that we have already brought and approved its additional educational material legislation here in Parliament. Thus, in the case of families with the risk of young people leaving school or not starting secondary education, for example, it is possible to overcome the risk that the educational material supplement can be channelled to those families where it is the greatest need. We have had very difficult economic times in Finland, and all parties here have had to participate in the balancing of the economy, but what I would like to remind you of is that we have a common goal of strengthening equality in education and training, and that has now been done.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u64	Mr President! At the outset, we must correct the misunderstanding that Mr Yanar has raised here about the fact that, for technical reasons, we had to reject this citizens' initiative: This was shared by the whole Committee on Education and Rural Development and was due to the fact that this was an initiative for action and that Parliament cannot change the content of the initiative for action.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u65	Mr President! As I have already told you, we are in the happy and good situation in Finland that the number of young people not in education and working life in Finland has fallen clearly in the last few years during this term of government. It is largely explained by good employment performance, which also helps young people and is an effective means of preventing exclusion. But just as Mr Multala asked and commented, yes, we must do more to prevent the exclusion of young people and turn our eyes to the early years, to kindergartens and the good effects of early childhood education, to the growth of the child, to development, to later learning, to prevent exclusion, and then to ensure a complete school path throughout the journey. That's a preventive perspective, early intervention. One such good achievement of this reign, however, is probably these Ohjaamo services: 60 Ohjaamos, which gather the services of young people and help for one of our young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u66	Mr President! The second-degree free-of-charge is a very important issue, and it can be said from this debate that it will be achieved by next season at the latest. But the transition to the second stage must be supported, and I think it is also very important to talk about these measures. We use and know-how models: flexible basic education, tenth grade, student guidance, student care, etc. Now I would like to ask: what has the government done to ensure that this joint phase, the transition to the second stage, is given greater support and that the transition should take place effortlessly?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u67	Mr President! The question of what was involved in this joint phase was excellent — how is the transition from basic education to secondary school ensured? It has taken big steps forward in Finland, so it can be said that in Finland the month of education has been made to work, so we have almost the entire age group moving to secondary school after basic education. The problem has actually moved one step further, and it is a massive drop-out of education. It can now be better influenced by the use of new tools for modern vocational education and training. It is true that there is a need for young people to walk by their side and for better guidance, and as one of the activities mentioned here, for example, this Ohjaamo, where help is provided by one door, can work. In addition, I propose that we consider the following steps — and we are already considering this in the Ministry — whether we should also have a clearer obligation of ex post guidance after basic education, i.e. that young people should be given clearer guidance, for example through the Ohjaamo instrument, to that stage if there is a fall in that section.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u68	Mr President! Education has been cut enormously during the last term of government. Unfortunately, the same line of surgery has continued with this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u71	Mr President! As far as the exclusion of young people is concerned, I say that the Ohjaamo activities, which have been well received from young people and professionals throughout the country, have now expanded to about 60 points and become stable, and have achieved the long-awaited form of service with a low threshold to get there, to get help for that very personal need and, where necessary, to move on to what is, in any case, the right place. This is a really good form of support, a form of service that is now widespread and well established. As for the cuts, no such cuts in education have been made that you yourself would not have accepted.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u72	A question from the Left Alliance Parliamentary Group, Mr Uotila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u73	Madam President! Parliament unanimously decided, on a proposal from the Bureau, to refer the intelligence laws back to committee in order to ensure that the laws certainly meet the requirements of our Constitution. A member of the Government then equated our country's key human rights defenders with the Taliban who murdered and tortured children, women and the elderly in Afghanistan. The Taliban is an extremist movement that dominated most of Afghanistan from 96 to 2001. The Taliban used the Islamic Sharia law in a particularly harsh form that they themselves interpreted, human rights had no place, and the situation of women in particular was catastrophic. Prime Minister Sipilä, do you consider it acceptable that a member of your government compares our constitutional experts to the Taliban?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u74	Mr President! Minister Jussi Niinistö has put forward his own views in his blog and they do not represent the government's position. As far as this question of the Constitution and the work of Parliament are concerned, it is quite clear to us that the government enjoys the confidence of Parliament and that Parliament does not have to enjoy the trust of the government. The Minister, too, has a very broad freedom of expression and even the freedom to express high-profile opinions. This issue has been the subject of a complaint to the Chancellor of Justice, and then, of course, after examining this complaint, the Chancellor of Justice will come to the conclusion of whether or not these limits of freedom of expression and dignity have been violated.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u75	Mr President! I asked you, Prime Minister, whether you consider this acceptable in terms of the conduct of your government minister and in terms of his statements and comparisons? ‘Yes or no’ is sufficient. If you say that you do not accept, then the follow-up question is: what measures are you going to take?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u76	Mr President! I do not think that this article, which has been, is wise. I do not share the views expressed in it. And, as I said, the Chancellor of Justice will investigate the matter and, in line with the conclusions of the Chancellor of Justice, I intend to take action.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u77	Would Minister Niinistö like to speak? — This question has been closed at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u78	The next item is the Christian Democratic Parliament Group, Mr Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u79	Mr President! In France and Germany anti-Semitism is on the rise. It has also landed in the Nordic countries, including Sweden. In Finland, the spread of Nazi propaganda is not a new phenomenon either. On the last Fourth of July, we saw Nazi flags waving at the demonstration. At the end of last year, the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights carried out a comprehensive survey of the anti-Semitism faced by Jews. According to the survey, eight out of ten respondents have been subjected to anti-Semitic harassment and nine out of ten experienced an increase in anti-Semitism in their home country over the past five years. A majority of respondents felt that the government of their country did not do enough to combat anti-Semitism. We need to see and understand the present threats.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u80	Mr President! One of the greatest strengths of Finnish society is that different population groups here rely on one another. At the moment, it may not be possible to say that there is exactly the same situation in other countries in Europe, and that is why Finland should, in itself, foster mutual cooperation between all groups of people, languages and religions, but also promote this same culture of action in Europe during the forthcoming EU Presidency. There is nothing more serious than the fact that precisely this kind of hate culture between population groups, religious or other, for example based on ethnic background, is beginning to become more widespread. Finland has very good operating cultures and practices for this, but we must constantly monitor this phenomenon. The various prohibitions of symbols and others are also under consideration and, in fact, in the preparation and study at the moment,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u81	Mr President! The anti-Semitism we see growing in European societies is only part of what the Jews experience in their everyday lives in their own countries. The anti-Semitism that led to the destruction of more than 6 million Jews and, at the same time, hundreds of thousands of Roma, retarded and other minorities by the Nazi Germans was a cruel act and a total failure in all human history. I ask the Minister for Education: do you see the need to keep these issues on the agenda, for example, in primary school education, so that these atrocities in history do not happen again?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u82	Mr President! These atrocities in history must not be repeated, and that is why this subject has been on the agenda of the EU Council of Education Ministers, among other things, and international news has been followed with great care. Our curricula in history deal with these events and topics, and we need to deal with them with sensitivity, so that every generation recognizes and knows the phenomenon and so we are able to deal with it with sufficient seriousness. So our school system plays an important role here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u83	One more question. Congressman Elo, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u84	Madam President! Finland will start as the EU Presidency in July. Each presidency can influence what the EU is talking about in its own term. This government is preparing for the next government the priorities of the EU presidency, and yesterday we set out in the new operational programme that the assessment of the need for asylum in Europe should be focused on the external borders of Europe. If we could move the asylum process outside Europe, we would avoid many problems at national level. The Italian border is closer to Africa than the Finnish border. The EU needs to control immigration. I would like to ask the minister responsible: how do you ensure that, in line with the line agreed by the current government, Finland, during its Presidency, is pushing for the transfer of asylum applications from all EU countries outside the European Union?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u85	Prime Minister Sipilä, and then Minister Terho.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u86	Mr President! Together here in Parliament, we have set the priorities for the Finnish Presidency. Thank you to all the parliamentary groups for this work. Finland's priorities are growth, i.e. the development of the internal market and free trade, security, where the development of defence cooperation is at the heart of development, but these future solutions to the migration crisis are also automatically transferred to the Finnish period, because no solutions will be found during the Romanian period, and the third priority is climate change and work against it. These three issues will then be taken forward as a whole. Last week I have discussed it with several prime ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u87	Mr President! I too, as a European minister, have had these discussions with my colleagues, last week, about the expectations other EU countries have for this Finnish Presidency, and one of the most important things is getting immigration control. All over Europe, of course, it has already been seen in the national elections that this issue has been recognised and seen to be very crucial everywhere, and also, so to speak, the countries that are so close to Finland, both in their internal policy and in their European policy, and high hopes are being expressed for us now, also in the debates in the corridors, that the Finnish Presidency would be productive not only in general terms, but also in relation to the financial framework, particularly in this issue of immigration, which is indeed a key issue for the EU as a whole and for the preservation of our freedom of internal movement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u88	Madam President! I thank the Prime Minister and the European Minister for their answers. The truth is that if we were to move this issue outside Europe, we would be saving many of the problems that are currently linked to national asylum policy. Let me take three examples: the illegal stay would stop, the judiciary would not have to deal with complaints about negative decisions, and there would be no need for forced return when we did not take people into the country of origin whose return to the country of origin is often impossible at the moment when the need for protection has ended. Therefore, it is precisely the EU-level solution that is an instrument to prevent the situation that occurred in Europe in 2015 in relation to the migration crisis. On this point, I would like to ask the Prime Minister: do you think that the next government, after we have been prepared, will have sufficient resources during the Presidency to push the line you mentioned, namely to get immigration under control at European level?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u89	Mr President! This is also one of the key issues during the Finnish Presidency, as has been many times ahead of this. We have good practical experience of working with the UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, where the camp nearer to the crisis areas is doing these security studies and can also choose families with children, the elderly, those who would not even be able to take a long hike through Europe. There is definitely a more sustainable way of dealing with matters in the UNHCR camps, for example, in cooperation with them and then from there, through the quota refugee system, taking the most vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u90	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u91	Mr President! I propose that the report should be accompanied by a confirmation of our statement on the subject of this report, and we hope that this statement, which deals with transparency and transparency, will also form part of Parliament's decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u92	Mr President! This issue is one of the last breaths of the management register that we have seen here in Parliament — yes, in nominal terms, this relates to the European directive on the identification of shareholders. This debate has only shown that when this government, unlike the previous government, wanted to increase the secrecy of equity holdings by the people, the whole European mainstream has gone in the opposite direction, to increase transparency, to identify owners and last-hand beneficiaries. This is extremely important both in the context of the shadow economy and in the fight against money laundering. It is therefore regrettable that during this term of government Finland has weakened the situation that was at the forefront of Europe when it was launched. Now we have gone in the opposite direction. Indeed, it is essential that the shareholders' information be made available to all in public registers and that the government — or the next government, which is more serious about tax evasion and aggressive tax planning, be obliged to continue to work for transparency.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u93	Mr President! The present draft law and the report can be broadly supported. It is based on the implementation of the EU directive and improves the right of listed companies to know their owners. However, as Mr Harakka said, this transparency of ownership will remain incomplete. Finland should increase transparency of ownership more ambitiously. The Government should bring a proposal to the Parliament to implement a declaration previously adopted by the Parliament that changes in legislation should be prepared to safeguard the publicity of ownership data at the level of direct ownership. It now looks as though the statement is not being implemented by and during the sitting government. Either in connection with this law or in other contexts, the public publicity of the holdings of listed companies should have been prepared as required by Parliament in 2017. On the basis of the above, I support the statement made by Mr Ihalainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u94	Mr President! In this very spirit, I would like to continue with the previous speakers. It is very important that we move in the direction of this transparency and transparency, but this work, the President, remains to be done. That is why this statement, which Mr Ihalainen has made here and which Mr Harakka has just spoken about, is extremely important. I am very much in favour of the same principle here, Mr President, that is to say more ambition for the government in these lines of transparency and transparency of ownership. From that point of view, this proposal is still very subdued and slightly disappointing, but, of course, it is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u95	Madam President! The transparency of securities transactions is, of course, extremely important, precisely because of the fact that the bonds are being settled, but also because it is possible to ensure that each country will then receive its own tax revenue that is linked to the securities trade and that the equity holdings will be carried out correctly. The future of securities trading will probably go more and more in its automatic, digital direction, and in this, Finland would have a good opportunity to lead the way. Harri Leinonen, who worked at the Bank of Finland at the beginning of the decade, has proposed such a system — whether it could be said of the same type as the bank's payment system, i.e. the Sepa system — with such a reference-based payment system, where the transfer of the share could always be verified and this verification could be done, for example, with modern block chain techniques or similar. The technology itself is not the most important thing here, but the fact that this system can verify every transfer of a security in real time. Today it may take a couple of days to settle securities transactions, and we have stock market speculators who use this two-day difference, which is to say, short-term stock purchase, that is to say, to sell shares that they do not actually own at the moment. It must be said that, hopefully, technological developments will in the future be more and more likely to improve the transparency of securities trading. However, we are one of the top European countries in many of these areas relating to banking and payment systems. When I was drawing up this Sepa end date report, i.e. the Sepa's last day of deployment, I noticed in the European Parliament how ancient payment and banking systems exist in many Central and Southern European countries. You can say that we in the Nordic countries and the Netherlands are top of the line. Even in Germany there are extremely old-fashioned systems, and we have many of those countries that do not even have such reference systems in place. In that sense, it must be said that during the Finnish Presidency, for example, we would have a good opportunity to be in the process of exporting this transparency and the speed of trading, and I believe that it would also be a cost factor such as this, which would further reduce the associated costs of securities trading. This would be, could you say, a free initiative for the next government and for the ministers responsible for these payment systems and share ownership issues to take forward? Otherwise, it must be said that, on the whole, it is clear that these digital systems, if we want to do so, will further improve this transparency and that every single transaction in securities can be monitored better than it has been so far. But it has been noted that there has also been opposition to such openings.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u96	Mr President! A well-functioning financial market is indeed an integral part of today's functioning economy and society, but there is also this demand for transparency, on which excellent speeches have been made. I would like to say that the proposal made here by Mr Ihalainen for a clear statement by Parliament which hastens action to promote transparency is very much to be welcomed, and I warmly support that. Here in Question Time, reference was made to these stock exchange rules, the interpretation of which was taken quite a long way: nothing should be said to anyone. However, I recall from the old days that the inside information on the stock market is related to the fact that it may be that you have to deal with it, but then those to whom it is told will be bound to the secret of the insider and to the law. Perhaps it would be a good idea to explain this too, because that Question Time may have left us with the impression that the information coming from the stock exchange is the most encrypted information in the world, even more protected than the security information coming to Parliament. Whatever the rules on stock exchange secrecy and insider information, these proposals, which in this statement are about the fact that stock register information is public, are a very important part of modern society, so that we can see who is exercising power in the company, and so that we can also see hidden ownership, so that we do not gain access to power in secret and from outside public control. It is also important for investing in these companies, i.e. those investing in listed companies must be confident that the exercise of power in these companies is strictly regulated and controlled and that the owners are known. When these issues of openness are often discussed in this House, I dare hope that this proposal by Mr Ihalainen can gain support across party boundaries. I believe that this is a necessary condition for a modern market economy, and if the modern market economy is to be supported, then the proposal made by Mr Ihalainen will also be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u97	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 33/2018 vp. The committee proposes that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u98	Mr President! Today we are dealing with a citizens' initiative proposing an accident insurance law, i.e. the current Act on Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases, a provision requiring the doctor of an insurance or pension institution to state his position on the medical assessment in the event of reimbursement in accordance with the formal requirements for medical certificates and opinions laid down in Article 23 of the Health Care Professionals Act. In practice, therefore, the initiative proposes that doctors in insurance and pension institutions have a long-standing legal protection right to take decisions without responsibility for their statements being changed. The authors of the initiative have therefore considered it justified that, when the treating physician is required to sign an opinion by honour and conscience, this should also be the case for insurance doctors, and those who propose that a provision be included in the accident insurance law on these formal requirements of the doctor issuing the opinion in accordance with Article 23 of the Professionals Act. Mr President! The committee notes that these important messages from the citizens' initiative and the civil debate that people are experiencing injustice and distrust of the independence of decision-making are worrying both in terms of the credibility of insurance decisions and the acceptability of the system as a whole. The situation is particularly problematic for insured persons when the opinion and conclusions of the doctor treating the claimant differ from those of the insurance or pension institution. For example, in the case of invalidity pensions, 29% last year, with around 10 % of the accidents at work and occupational diseases reported to insurance companies, and around 1.6 to 2.5 % of the applications were rejected on a medical disability basis. Over the years, the committee has drawn attention to the importance of clarity and understanding of the reasons for the decisions on benefits. It's been ignored all these years. It is also good to note that at the moment a broad-based advisory board is already under way in the Ministry, which will specifically clarify and continue to develop the insurance doctor system on the basis of previous projects and studies. There are a great many parties involved, and this board is now sitting in one section for three years. Mr President! In particular, the debate was raised in committee by what is the right way to develop the insurance doctor system. The proposal of the citizens' initiative that the system should be developed precisely by correcting the existing law in accordance with the formal provision of the Professional Act does not necessarily bring a correction to the position of the people from whom this citizens' initiative is based. In this regard, the committee would draw particular attention to the fact that this proposal will not actually improve people's access to justice. The committee therefore concludes that, first of all, the current system is already very complex with regard to social security and social security and, in private cases, there can be very serious financial difficulties if you get a rejection decision in such a case. First of all, the committee stresses that the refusal of such compensation or benefit must not mean that a person is completely deprived of income security and that it is important for the achievement of fundamental rights that the speed and smoothness of decision-making is also ensured, and that equality and clarity and quality and completeness of the decisions taken are important for the applicants for the benefit. In this respect, the Committee also stresses the objective training of insurance doctors and the development and development of medical insurance. Mr President! Surely, then, many questions are that if this is unfortunately not the concrete way to change what creates a sense of injustice with regard to the insurance doctor system, then how should it be done? We did have a serious debate on this in committee, and in this context the committee particularly stresses that confidence in the insurance doctor system is still needed and must be able to develop and better respond to the public's sense of justice and that it is particularly important to take account of this sense of justice in the development process. The committee therefore concludes that, although technically this citizens' initiative is now being rejected, in particular because this article, to which the amendment would be made, no longer exists in the new legislation, the committee still considers that it is this citizens' initiative that has led to a debate on the future of the entire insurance medical system and the development of its operation. Then I think it is important that the committee as a whole should come to a decision in which the Government must now determine the various means of further developing this system of insurance doctors in order to reflect the public's sense of law. That is why I consider the committee's proposal to be a strong one. It requires the Government to prepare a proposal to correct the shortcomings of the insurance doctor system and to submit proposals for legislative changes to Parliament already during the spring session of 2020. In this context, it is also necessary to clarify the form of statements made by insurance doctors in the legislation, which is precisely what was proposed in this citizens' initiative. But in what way should these formal requirements be made and what are the concrete means of achieving more justice for this, then we are going to find out. I consider this committee's solution to be important in that we are now achieving this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u99	I promised that those who have been waiting for a long time would at least be given the floor first.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u100	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on this citizens' initiative is unanimous, and here I am presenting the views and ideas of the Group of the European People's Party in charge of the committee. Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the citizens' initiative, Pertti Latvala and Nico Ojala. I would also like to thank all citizens. Almost 60,000 people have signed this initiative, and it goes without saying that the people have once again used the most powerful weapon of their own to make their affairs heard here in Parliament, that is to say the citizens' initiative, and it is great that we still have time to deal with it here. Of course, it is always possible to think that more time and more expert consultations would certainly have been in order, but it is good that this is now here in our debate and we can also be happy to tell you what everything has been put in our report. In particular, I would also like to thank the representative of the Finnish People's Party, Jari Ronkainen, who has taken the initiative in 2017 as well as the initiative on measures relating to the development and improvement of the insurance doctor system. It has really been the key to this whole issue, and it is great that now things are moving forward and the bill and the initiative for action are also getting a voice here in Parliament in this way. This initiative takes the view that doctors in insurance and pension institutions have long had the legal right to take decisions without liability for their statements, and the authors of the initiative considered it contrary to the equality guaranteed by Article 6 of the Constitution that the treating physician is required to sign the opinion by honour and conscience, but the same is not required of the insurance doctor. In plain language, that is what the content of this initiative is all about. We, the People's Party, considered it very important that this issue should be raised in committee, and we are pleased that we unanimously received a statement in our report, which was just made by the chairman of the committee, Krista Kiuru: "The Council of State is required to prepare a proposal to correct the inadequacies of the insurance medical system and to make proposals to the Parliament for legislative amendments during the spring of the year2020. In this context, it is necessary to clarify how the formal requirements for the advice of insurance doctors are to be recorded in the legislation.’ Indeed, this statement is strong and robust, and it also includes this observation, that it is checked and examined whether it is possible to sign up in the Law as “the period of respect ” and of importance. In other words, it is very important that such a statement goes forward and that this system is monitored and developed. Madam President! The processes are very long for people who seek justice and who have experienced an accident or other injury. Time passes, there is pain, and a sick person may not be able to fight for his rights. It is important that we remember here that any one of us, when we leave that door, may slip, may fall, may be the next one to seek justice for himself. And if an application comes back as a boomerang, without being understood by the recipient of it, and in such a way that he feels that there is a lack of transparency or something wrong with information or understanding, so that he cannot be made clear why this application has returned, which is why a negative decision has come about, then these are the things we need to open up. We need to develop society as a whole more in plain language, especially in these cases. A person who receives a negative decision must know why and why. It is very difficult and distressing to be on paper and on the wheel of bureaucracy, and I would like to stress that the sick person is not up to it. Mr President! The citizens' initiative highlights in a significant way the issues on the basis of which the insurance doctor system needs to be further assessed and developed in order to improve citizens' legal certainty and the acceptability of the system, and it seems very harsh when we always say in our reports that the citizens' initiative is rejected. Well, this is the process of how it is going here, but yet the citizens' initiative has led us to make a strong statement that this must not be the case, but that it must move forward. I hope that the legal security of citizens will be ensured and that the reliability and credibility of decision-making will continue to exist in the future and that we will be able to open up those issues when this system is developed. It is a very good thing that this issue is now moving forward and moving forward. We are, of course, looking forward to the results that will then be achieved. But greetings to those who have taken the initiative and to those who have signed the initiative, and to those people who are involved in these processes at the best time, hoping for strength.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u101	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the author of the citizens' initiative, Pertti Latvala, and the active citizen, Nico Ojala, for the fact that this serious flaw in our legislation has finally been brought to the attention of Parliament. The possibility for insurance companies and their doctors to contest the diagnosis of the treating physician without seeing the patient is a major challenge to the public's sense of justice. This is well demonstrated by the fact that the citizens' initiative only collected the 50,000 signatures required in less than two months. The citizens' initiative system has already demonstrated its need on several occasions. It has provided people with a direct channel to influence and bring today's burning topics to Parliament. It is important that this citizens' initiative moved forward, as there was also a threat that it would lapse to the end of the parliamentary term. In my opinion, the failure to deal with it would have been a contempt for democracy. Some legal scholars doubted whether this citizens' initiative could be dealt with at all when reference was made to the law already repealed. However, I think it is unreasonable to expect a layman to prepare at the same level as Parliament officials have seen. The authors of the initiative and the businessmen have been invited to the committee for consultation, and the will behind the citizens' initiative has been clarified. The initiative has been dealt with in a manner that is appropriate to its value. Mr President! I very much welcome the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. Thank you for that. During the consultation of the citizens' initiative, the committee has undoubtedly been able to hear from both the authors of the initiative and the patient organisations what kind of injustice people have been subjected to from insurance companies. Although the committee is proposing to reject the draft law, the committee's statement must be fully supported. The next Board of Directors should prepare a proposal to remedy the shortcomings of the insurance doctor’s system. The decision must also be understood, because we are talking about such a large piece of legislation that it must be prepared for at least six months. It is a time that this Parliament no longer has. The statement also shows the handprint of the Finns. I would therefore like to thank Mr Arja Juvo, the representative of the Finnish People's Party, for his active committee work. Correcting the inadequacies of the insurance doctor system is one of the leading projects of the Finnish Parliament Group and last presented in the alternative budget of the Parliamentary Group for 2019. Mr President! The requirement for insurance doctors to comply with the formal requirements of the Health Care Professionals Act is in line with my legislative initiative, which I took over three months before the citizens' initiative currently under discussion. My bill gave rise to a lot of public debate and brought the problems of the insurance doctor’s system under the lens. In practice, the demand for so-called "truth obligation" that I put forward in the bill and repeated in the citizens' initiative would mean that the insurance doctor would have to sign the documents he produced through honor and conscience, just as other doctors did. This obligation was repealed in 2004 by Article 41d of the Accident Insurance Act, which is currently covered by other laws, which is also referred to in the citizens' initiative. Now, however, nothing is decided, but the next Parliament and the government will take it upon themselves to correct the wrongs of the insurance doctor system. It is extremely important, in the follow-up to the debate, to examine, as the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has said, the possibility of registering the obligation of truth in the law. In addition, I urge you to take into account my bill and the proposals of the Finnish Parliament Group on the reverse burden of proof, which would require the insurance company to reverse the doctor's opinion on medical grounds. This would go a long way towards eliminating the arbitrariness that citizens have experienced.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u102	Do you want a little debatation at this point? — — — — It's a small response phase.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u103	Madam President! It is regrettable that these citizens' initiatives often fall short of the various technical problems, and this time I would like to thank the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and its chairman, Mrs Kiuru, and all the Members there, for the fact that a solution has been sought to ensure that the technical problem does not overturn the citizens' initiative, but that the aim of the citizens' initiative goes through the statement so that, in spring 2020, Parliament must be brought, not just a report, but a proposal that this issue can be put right. We therefore need an impartial body, in my opinion, to provide expert opinions in the event of insurance medical disputes. Finally, I would like to thank, in particular, Mr Ronkainen, who has been the Prime Minister of Parliament on this issue, for taking this initiative and for taking it forward with determination, and this citizens' initiative then backed it into this final solution. Thank you to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u104	Mr President! In this regard, one might agree with Mr Heinonen's speech in the sense that it is very sad that people's initiatives are often expected to be perfect, even though it is up to us in Parliament to implement that spirit. That is why we are here, and we have experts as officials who are doing this, so we must never hide behind the citizens' initiative if there is some technical illusion or someone else who is not working. So it is good that this was taken very seriously. When a person really experiences an accident and an accident, he is already having enough difficulty then, and it will be tested whether our society is just, whether he gets justice, whether he is cared for. The ‘Discrimination of conscience’is not a fluid,and it Indeed, I am extremely proud of them, and I must say that the fundamental Finnish Party has a keen sense of justice.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u105	Mr President! I would like to add my thanks to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which has been put forward here. It is true that, although there were other options in the discussion, the good work of the committee's management led to the finding of an agreement on this effort. Thank you to the committee for that. It is true that, now that we have had the second-degree free-of-charge initiative, there are two very different ways of dealing with the citizens' initiative. There are technical problems in both, but this is precisely where we found a common will and a joint effort to ensure that all of us in the Groups expect the Government to prepare a proposal to correct the shortcomings of the insurance doctor's system, that is, a common will which was not found in this second-degree free-of-charge initiative, here was found. This is an example of how the citizens' initiative system can also be used in this way, even though not every technical detail is in place.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u106	Madam President! I would like to thank the committee for its work, but at the same time I also commend it. I commend the fact that this committee's report does not once get to the core problem of the difference between the opinions of the treating physician and the insurance doctor. The core problem is that we have 11 different definitions of disability in legislation. This is not an insurance doctor's fault, and we must remember that in a situation as difficult as people who feel unable to work are, the big problem is that for their treating doctor it is a medical matter, but for the insurance doctor it is a legal matter and he has to take these 11 different definitions into account. I would also have liked some opinion on this committee's report on how to start cleaning up these definitions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u107	Mr President! Yes, the issue has been raised, and this is known in committee, but since it is precisely this citizens' initiative that proposes only one way to resolve this issue, in this consultation of the citizens' initiative we have now gone through the question of whether these formal requirements can be met. The position of the Ministry of Justice was clear: this type of request could be recorded, but unfortunately it would not bring any relief. In this way we are deeply concerned in the committee that, if this is not the medicine, how will this legal situation be improved? In that respect, there are many other options here, and this is one of the alternatives that Mr Järvinen well described, but this has not been listed. There are also solutions and many others to be made through the complaint system, but they were not taken up because this is the citizens' initiative that is now being discussed and this citizens' initiative is being given a chance. I think that's the most important thing. And the report also refers to these formal requirements that this should be clarified in detail.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u108	Let us take five more replies, and then to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u109	Mr President! In this connection, I would also like to thank the initiativers for bringing an important and many Finns to Parliament. I would also like to thank the committee, thank you for your good work. Through the statement, the matter will proceed to further preparation and will not remain stuck in the formalities, as is unfortunately sometimes the case with citizens' initiatives. Mr President! In this context, when the Minister is present, I would like to ask the Minister about the follow-up: How will the preparatory work in line with the present effort be launched, and what kind of preparatory working group could be appointed to this end? Have we thought about this in the Ministry yet? It is very important that the transparency and independence called for in this initiative and in this report also take place in the process of preparing the necessary legislative changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u110	Madam President! I would also like to thank you for the way in which we worked in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. It was precisely when we saw that this citizens' initiative was not right technically and legally and legally, that we took the so-called spirit into account. So, in spirit and understanding, we went to answer the fundamental question that this citizens' initiative was seeking. As has already been said here about the free second stage of the citizens' initiative by young people and organisations, I would have liked to have been able to do the same with it in the Committee on Culture. The second thing I would like to say to Mr Järvinen: as has been said here, we wanted to extend this debate and this preparation by requiring the Government to prepare a proposal to correct the shortcomings of the insurance doctor system and to submit proposals to Parliament to amend the legislation. In other words, this will, in a way, send out a wider message from Parliament and, in a way, a mandate to the next government on how it should act on these matters. Then, of course, we will see and hope that these issues, which Mr Järvinen has raised, will be taken into account in further work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u111	Mr President! This is a very important issue which has now been raised in this citizens' initiative, and it is good that this issue is being dealt with here, and it is good that these issues are being discussed. But unfortunately, this is not enough. If we start by talking about the honor and conscience of a doctor, that means that the patient must be there in the presence of a doctor, no matter where he comes from in Finland. Here comes the big one, but if this is required, then travel costs come when you come from Muonio to Helsinki and back to Muonio, or from anywhere in the country. There are many other matters that we should deal with in insurance matters than this. We have issues that need to be discussed, such as how we prove that a long-term unemployed person with mental problems has a mental disorder and is not capable of any job, but needs to get into a disability pension. In exactly the same way, if you are on the somatic side of this same thing: if you have a broken hand, you can run, but is it, if your hand is amputated, capable of working anymore? These are big things that we need to go over extensively.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u112	Madam President! Thank you, Minister, for being here, and I would like to ask you what is always asked of me: when these processes are so extremely long and those people who are waiting for decisions on compensation or their situation often feel that they are not being heard and that this is a legal murder and that we are being held in limbo, in what way can we improve this process's smoothness so that things can speed up and people can have those decisions more quickly? It would be desirable for this too to be taken into account in the preparation. My second concern concerns those who do not receive these decisions in due course, but who are told that you are capable of working and that you have to go to work and should be activated. In what way, then, is the message being taken to these people as to what means they can use now in that situation of life, because there really is no work to be found and activation is not possible and benefits to be lost and people are really hanging loose?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u113	Representative Salonen and then Minister. Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u114	Mr President! Last season, when I was elected to Parliament, I was immediately confronted by a citizen who was in very big trouble with the insurance system and had to go to all the courts in fact and only finally won the final court. During the last term, I made a discussion initiative on this subject, although it was never progressing at the time. Risikko, who was then Minister, also intervened and some sort of measures were taken, but we are still in a situation where these measures have not been enough. By the way, it is not self-evident that this report is as substantial as it is now. In that sense, I say to Mr Järvinen that do not give us any reproach, because we have done our work thoroughly there.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u115	Madam Speaker! First of all, thank you to the chairman of the committee for presenting the report and to the committee for drawing up the report. It is easy to agree with this unanimous report and these thanks in this Chamber, as well as the statement made by the committee. I think it has clear steps to take in the future. Mr Sarkkinen, you asked here what the basis might be for this solution to be sought. One of the things we can find is that there is already a negotiating board in the ministry to develop insurance decisions, occupational pension rehabilitation decisions. In this context, as Mr Ronkainen said, it is precisely a careful and sufficiently long legislative process that is needed to take account of what you have raised here, Mr Järvinen, and also of the challenges raised by President Kiuru in terms of the timetable for progress. As far as these questions are concerned, how to get decisions more quickly and how to remove the mistrust of these decisions: It is quite true that these rejected decisions on disability pensions and rehabilitation decisions are in practice incompatible with the citizens' sense of justice. You don't trust insurance doctors. And the experience of injustice, if it is experienced, cannot be wrong for a citizen. This system has been criticised for a long time, and there are certainly a number of measures and legislative initiatives in that Parliament's intranet. Now that we have received this statement that the future government will then be on this issue, I really hope and believe — and our common will state at least seems to be so — that we want to take bold steps to gain more confidence and more knowledge and citizens feel that their voices have been heard.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u116	Then let's go to the list of speakers. Thank you for your patience, Mr Taavitsainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u117	Mr President! Good Minister! Colleagues! I believe that there are a considerable number of shortcomings in the current system of insurance doctors, and I therefore thank the citizens of the citizens' initiative and its signatories. I am very pleased that, with this citizens' initiative, the Parliamentary Committee on Social Affairs and Health unanimously proposes to correct the shortcomings of the insurance doctor's system and took the citizens' experience of insurance doctors' statements very seriously. In particular, there are situations where the opinions of doctors treating the applicant and the views of insurance doctors differ and affect the compensation received by the person and his or her livelihood and rehabilitation. I believe that greater emphasis must be placed on the statements made by doctors treating them, and the supervision of doctors in insurance companies should be improved, and insurance companies should be liable if the insurance doctor is found guilty of a mistake or negligence which has caused the insured person to suffer either in health or in economic terms. For example, there have been many injustices associated with brain injuries. There are five brain injury clinics in Finland with the best knowledge of brain injury in the country. None of these units are able to carry out diagnostics of suspected brain injury, assessment of the severity of brain injuries and associated diagnostics, rehabilitation assessments and rehabilitation plans. In these units, the work is based on multi-professional research. It shall not be possible to ignore the assessment of such a unit without very strong criteria. It is totally unacceptable that, at the moment, the assessment of diagnostics or treatment by such a unit can be ignored alone or completely independently by an insurance company orthopedician who has no experience of brain injuries. Thus, severe brain injury can now be found to be mild in the insurance company, leaving the patient without rehabilitation and without livelihood. The result has been disastrous for many people. The fact that the insurance company refuses to replace it does not mean that the disabled person is cured and capable of working. He won't take the bed under his arm and start walking. Her care, rehabilitation and loss of earnings are passed on to society. Often he also falls into a completely black hole and gets no money. I have listened to these true stories and I have also criticised Kela, who sends people rejection decisions on sickness allowance, even though the doctor's report shows that she is ill and that her ability to work is not even sufficient for part-time work. Their Negative Decisions Kela justifies the assessment made by her own insurance doctors, based solely on patient papers, without seeing a person. Mr President! The Association for Brain Injury has also raised a very important issue: the fact that disabled people are not entitled to their own data because of 80 years of secrecy. The supervision of insurance doctors is not possible because of this. The injured person is not entitled to receive the opinion of the insurance doctor who took part in the decision because of this confidentiality provision. This must definitely be changed to the law on public access to court proceedings in administrative courts. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The Parliament is now deciding to improve the system of insurance doctors in Finland and to remedy the shortcomings that have arisen in the citizens' initiative and in the public debate. This is amazing. It is quite clear that the next government must put this on its agenda and by law correct these shortcomings in the insurance doctor system. This is so important that it must be recorded in the government programme. It's too bad the minister left. I would have thanked him for listening to this debate and for telling me what is going on in the Ministry at the moment. I am a little concerned about whether the appointed working group referred to by the Minister is adequately heard by patients or whether their voices are being flouted by insurance companies and civil servants. We need to make sure their voices are heard.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u118	Mr President! I am very pleased that the citizens' initiative has been properly dealt with and its content is progressing, even if it is technically rejected at this stage. The contribution that has been made in this report is a good one, and it requires a rigorous investigation and correction of the insurance doctor system and the preparation and introduction of the necessary legislative changes to Parliament, taking into account the shortcomings in the citizens' initiative and in the civil debate. It is essential to increase the transparency and independence of the insurance doctor system and citizens' confidence in the system. Mr President! The report states that the quality of the medical arguments put forward by insurance doctors in non-remunerated solutions must be clarified. This is the case, and I would also see the need to find out a model in which the insurance doctor would be obliged to see and examine the patient if the assessment differs from that of the treating physician. I do not believe that travel costs can be an unambiguous obstacle to this legislative change when it comes to decisions and processes of extreme importance for the rest of the human life. The knowledge of insurance doctors and their independence must also be an issue that will be clarified and that there will no longer be as many question marks as there will be today. Mr President! Ensuring the independence and transparency of insurance doctors and appeal boards is essential. The gatekeeper status of insurance doctors is justified in itself, but citizens must be able to rely on the neutrality of the system. Unfortunately, this is not necessarily the case today, and insurance doctors appear to be very close to the insurance companies and their interests. Mr President! I hope, just as the previous speaker said, that further work will be carried out on the basis of the necessary legislative changes, transparency and independence will also be the guiding principles for further work and that various stakeholders, experts and also patient organisations, will be able to participate in the process. Mr President! As stated in this report, clarity and understanding of decisions is an essential further development. It's easy to agree with. It is also clear what has already emerged in this debate that the diversity of the concept of disability in various laws is something that must also be clarified extensively in this context. Above all, the whole system must be blamed in a very thorough way. Mr President! Thank you again for raising an important point for those who have taken the initiative, and thank you to the committee for promoting it. The report has particular value because it was unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u119	Madam President! It is quite undeniable that we have thousands of people in Finland who feel unable to work but still do not receive an invalidity pension. They feel they've been treated unfairly. That is why it is excellent that this initiative has been taken, and it is even more excellent that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has taken a clear position on it. I regret, however, that in this debate we are talking about insurance doctors in a way that, as it were, puts them at fault in this situation. It must be remembered that, as unfair as the situation is, disability is a medical diagnosis always to the doctor treating it, whereas for an insurance doctor it is always a legal concept. The insurance doctor is in the mess we have created, and now I am not pointing the finger at the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, but at each of us, because this system has gone through our hands with 11 different definitions of incapacity for work. I can list these in the Health Insurance Act, the Workers' Pensions Act, the Pensions Act in the Public Sectors, the National Pensions Act, all different definitions, and in addition in the Act on Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases, the Motor Insurance Act, the Compensation Act, the Military Injury Act, the Law on Compensation for Military Accidents and Service Sickness, the Criminal Damage Act and also voluntary insurance. It is quite clear that insurance doctors who try to comply with their own decisions under these laws, and citizens are on a slightly different path, and it is understandable that it is difficult for citizens to understand the difference in decisions. Instead of treating a doctor, the doctor will have to know the social insurance legislation, the previous solutions, the practices followed by the appeal bodies, and, of course, the various rehabilitation options, and then the 11 different interpretations of the legislation. Of course, the insurance doctor also takes into account the applicant’s entire life situation more widely than the treating doctor. In addition, insurance doctors do not act as they wish, but they also have clear supervisors, the Financial Supervisory Authority and, of course, the appeal bodies, and I would argue that this reasonably harsh publicity also acts as a supervisor. If we have 11 different interpretations of incapacity for work, I find it unreasonable to want an interpretation job, for example, for ordinary health centre doctors. It has also been suggested here today that we need a reverse burden of proof, which would mean that if the treating doctor had made a suggestion, the insurance doctor would have to prove his own statement even more effectively. If, for example, a comparison is made with the students of this spring, it would in practice mean that the school's own history teacher, who evaluates the matriculation examination, would go through the report to the end and the Student Board would not have the authority to relate the situation of the matriculation examination to the entire Finnish writings. What would be the result? Same practice, exactly the same practice. It is reasonably impossible to think about and reflect on the final importance of the treating physician and his statement, and it is also difficult to think that his own health centre doctor or other treating physician should know this difficult insurance legislation that we have, bearing in mind that insurance legislation does not fall within the scope of medical training. There has been talk here about the kind of treatment people have been subjected to for insurance companies. I am still trying to say that we must humbly take the mirror in this house and think about how we can clarify this legislation. It is excellent that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health proposes that this House should begin to correct these shortcomings and propose amendments to the legislation, which are indeed needed. We have also asked what we could do, how we could improve this whole chain, because it is quite clear and indisputable that it is problematic. Well, there are a lot of measures here. Firstly, it would be important to ensure that applications for invalidity are better prepared. At the moment, I apologise, there are major problems. The second thing I think is that the customer should always be heard, [KristaKuru requests reply ] There are also problems with complaints. The overriding reason for accepting the complaint has changed the grounds, so the application has simply been improved. But that is the most important point: the legislation must be clarified. Madam President, may I continue to speak?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u122	Does the chairman of the committee want a reply? I'll give you one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u123	Mr President! I think that Mr Järvinen has put forward these possible road maps, but it is now good to clarify that this citizens' initiative is only proposing one measure in order to achieve a better solution to the situation, so that more people feel that the system is fairer and reflects the current sense of justice. One thing is, in particular, the training of insurance doctors and a clear increase in the quality of their opinions, and the committee also draws attention to this. I would also like to say that there are a number of solutions and possible paths that need to be considered. There was also a debate in the committee on whether, in fact, every person who has received a rejection decision should, in the event of technological progress, be given some kind of connection in this case with the final decision maker. In this regard, it also saw significant challenges if it were to be decided to do so, so all options are genuinely open now, and in that respect I think it is important,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u124	Mr President! We usually tend to raise our own tail in politics, but at this point I would like to raise the public's profile. Thank you to the citizens' initiative makers and to all the signatories for allowing us to draw up this report in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and for the fact that, in the big room, we are now dealing with this citizens' initiative. Of course, the citizens' initiative affects only one part of the flaws and problems of this vast insurance system as a whole, and that is precisely why the debate and the consultation of the committee have not been as extensive as all of us in this Chamber understand that it should actually be to remedy this issue and the phenomenon. That is why the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health proposes that the Government prepare a proposal to correct the shortcomings of the insurance doctor system and submit proposals for legislative changes to Parliament during the spring session of 2020. During the spring session of 2020 — I think this is significant.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u127	Madam President! I too would like to thank the citizens' initiative makers, Pertti Latvala and Nico Ojala. I have been in Parliament for a long time, and this matter has been in Parliament's deliberations several times in a different form. It has been unfortunate in this way that we in Parliament have not been able to address these shortcomings, which have now been raised well in connection with this citizens' initiative. I have a feeling and I feel that, fortunately, we have such a system of citizens' initiatives, which will then wake us up in a slightly different way to discuss this big issue, which relates not only to insurance doctors but also to the whole insurance doctor system. Mr President! I would also like to take this opportunity to thank our Committee on Social Affairs and Health. I also have to say, as we all said, that when we heard the authors of this initiative, they were very gratefully raising the issues behind this citizens' initiative, and when we got the spirit that this was seeking and what it was intended to do, the common will of the whole Committee on Social Affairs and Health was to answer precisely the fundamental questions that concern the entire insurance doctor system and not just the one that was included in this citizens' initiative. In my opinion, this type of way of interpreting the views and initiatives of citizens is the right way in which we will then be able to communicate legislative reforms. In that sense, I am very pleased that we did not take up this one issue, but that we had a wide-ranging debate on how we will be able to work together in the future to improve the insurance doctor system. On that we have this joint statement, which we jointly modified forward. Mr President! These are people who are seriously ill or who are injured, and as a result they rightly want justice and the opportunity to build life on. Often these situations come suddenly, resulting in a crisis for man and the family themselves. In this context, of course, people hope that our safety net and society will support them in this situation, that they may receive care and rehabilitation and that their livelihoods are secure. When this does not happen, it is understandable and justified that people feel that society is treating them unfairly, not justly. When there is a contradiction here, then, that a person who has treated a patient in the situation and is involved in rehabilitation and in the everyday life sees the situation differently and, when this is taken forward, an insurance doctor from a distance interprets this situation differently, this inevitably and rightly creates great disappointment for people and also distrust for society and our entire insurance system. In that sense, this feeling that people experience is justified. I would also like to raise a few points here, which I myself have come across, and as a result, just like Mr Salonen, I have been involved in a number of situations. I must say that I have been involved in situations that have not been positive, but I have also been in situations where things have progressed positively, and could you say that there are two completely different life situations here? It is the positiveness, joy, joy when things go well, so that there is faith and confidence in the future and survival. It takes us a long way forward, and it is a positive thank-you from people to society. But then, as a result of the situations and experiences in which I have the other way around, I also approached Eksote in my own place in South Karelia and the doctors who are treating them there who give a statement, because the unfortunate fact is that, on the basis of the experiences I have experienced, we are treating doctors who give these statements in very different ways, with very different standards. There may be very short, superficial statements, but then there may also be very deep and such ‘exact’ statements that provide insurance doctors with a real situation. On the basis of these experiences, for example, South Karelia started to invest and train treating doctors specifically in this system of insurance doctors, so that they can give a fair and balanced statement to everyone, which clearly shows that the end result of the decisions of insurance doctors is also turning in a more positive direction. That is why medical knowledge needs to be improved by treating doctors, as well as by insurance doctors. This was also mentioned in our committee. The second point that was made clear to those who took these initiatives, and which gives rise to mistrust, is that the validity of these decisions was not transparent and that people did not get the basis for what led the insurance doctor to take a negative view of their decision. That is why I too hope that, when this further work is carried out, we must invest in transparency and in the arguments behind these matters. The third point is that when a person receives a negative decision, it is absolutely essential that the treating physician and then a social worker who is possibly familiar with social security take a catch from this person so that this person is not left alone,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u128	Madam President! I think it is very good and important that this citizens' initiative has come to Parliament, and the committee has taken a very positive view of this, and there is a common will to build and resolve these issues. I myself wish to address this issue in particular from the point of view of people seeking disability pension who are experiencing a rejection decision, and mainly from the point of view of the process. I myself have been involved in some cases and very closely followed and helped to make these applications, and they are often very inhumane stories and it is quite reasonable to explain that this person is not capable of working. Often the treating physician and many medical doctors have stated this unambiguously, but then the insurance doctor, without seeing the person, finds that he rejects this application. These are often very difficult processes for applicants, even mentally. To a large extent, it is only in my own experience that this is often a very long process, and even if the criteria are met physically and become a rejection decision, it is often after years that these become a psychological challenge for many unemployed people. Perhaps it will then be possible to receive an invalidity pension in the end. I see that these processes are far too heavy and these particular records are far too unclear, and from the point of view of the individual people and the support networks they have, they are totally unreasonable, and that is why it is absolutely necessary to change this system so that we support these people. For my part, I would like to thank the authors of the initiative and also thank the committee for its common will to resolve this issue. Yes, we must now get action to correct this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u129	Madam President! This is a very important issue, and I would like to thank the authors of the initiative and also Mr Ronkainen, who has been exceptionally active in this area. More than 30 years ago, when I started here in Parliament, this matter came right from the start through many people. I complained to many people, and quite often a careful complaint made by the insurance company in the complaint rates changed the decision that had been made by the insurance companies on a proposal from insurance doctors. At the end of the 1990s, between 96 and 97, with the then representative Marjatta Stenius-Kaukonen, I held two or three seminars here in the auditorium of this house. We invited representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, representatives of pension institutions, representatives of insurance law and certain organisations, and then also these people who had received a rejection decision on their application. These people were living proof that they were not able to work, even though they were found to be so in these processes. At those seminars, we made a few improvements. First of all, before that, the insurance company did not justify the wrecking decision in any way. We made it possible for the company to state the reasons for each wrecking decision. The second was that the relationship of insurance doctors with insurance companies was made more independent, i.e. cut off, so that they were no longer quite as dependent on the company until then. Of course, this improved the situation somewhat. The third point, in this connection, was that until then a person had received the pension for perhaps five or ten years retrospectively and was then taxed at one time about half of the low income, because the pot was quite large, and we received the legal amendment that it was amortised for three years, and thus the tax progress was significantly reduced. So these were good and necessary reforms, but the system did not become transparent and does not correspond to what must be expected in the rule of law, and it is therefore extremely good that this issue is now here in the form of an initiative. The report is excellent and contains a statement which will be adopted unanimously by Parliament which is truly valuable and important. I hope that this publicity, which has now come to light, will also have an impact on the decisions of pension companies and on the activities of insurance doctors.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u130	Madam President! Even if the insurance doctor’s system needed more extensive renovation, it would have been a quick and, I believe, relatively easy procedure to sign up to the law for the truth. Citizens’ confidence in the insurance doctor system would have been improved once and for all. However, experts have stated that a change in the law would not have a material impact on practical activities. If so, would the amendment of the law have any real obstacles? After all, it was even enshrined in the Constitution last season that Finland was a member of the EU, although some felt that it was mainly a formality. Even the GCM agreement was concluded just like that without the decision of Parliament on the pretext that it would not be legally binding in Finland. Why can’t the obligation to truth be recorded in the law in the same way? There is a strong and well-founded doubt as to why anyone would object to the swearing of insurance doctors on the basis of honor and conscience. The simplest explanation is that in many places the action of insurance doctors would go against those words. Insurance companies are profit-making companies. Profit comes from the difference between the premiums received and the actual risks incurred. Insurance companies have the power to decide for themselves what they are replacing, and insurance doctors are on the payroll of insurance companies. The conflict of interest is obvious. That is why we now have almost 60,000 signatures for the citizens' initiative. Mr President! Janne Leinonen, Chairman of the Association of Insurance Doctors, and Timo Kivivainen, CEO of Keva, reported in Turun Sanomat a year ago, 22. 1 February 2018, that the amendment would lead to premium increases. How on earth can this be true unless it is admitted that not all cases of sickness and accident intended for reimbursement have been replaced? I believe that people would be happy to pay even an increased premium if they could trust that in the event of an illness or accident they would receive fair treatment and an impartial decision on compensation. The fact that an insurance doctor has no obligation to rely on medical findings is incomprehensible. I have received numerous and numerous communications from people who have described the pain when, despite its obvious nature, the causal link between an accident or injury has been denied by the insurance company. This is an absolutely intolerable situation. If the insurance doctor really wants to draw this decisive conclusion, I think he should at least examine the patient himself and thus reverse the diagnosis of the treating physician. Mr President! This issue has indeed been discussed in Parliament during several parliamentary periods. Now, this season, it looks like we've got a pretty tough bust. Finally, I would like to thank all those who have been involved in this Chamber in promoting this issue. The People's Parliament Group, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, representatives Harkimo, Taavitsainen, Myllykoski, Halmemenpää, Heinonen, Sarkkinen and so on, the list of names is very long, thank you all.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u131	Mr President! I, too, like other representatives of the People's Republic of Finland, express my thanks to the authors of this citizens' initiative and its signatories. Through this citizens' initiative, Parliament has, at last and at last, been confronted with a serious situation which has plagued many citizens for many years and has badly violated their rights. The purpose of the initiative is, of course, to remove from doctors in insurance and pension companies the right they still have, at least for the time being, for no reasonable reason and even without seeing the patient refute the doctor's opinion. Without this citizens' initiative, this matter of social importance would hardly have surfaced in Parliament at all, at least on this scale as we have seen now, and the problems would not have been corrected, even though they have caused and still cause many patients great emotional pain. Mr President! For us Finns, it is already very important to correct the shortcomings of the insurance doctor system for reasons of justice. The doctor’s main task is to treat the patient, not to promote the financial interests of insurance companies. Mr Ronkainen, who spoke earlier, has worked hard to correct the matter, for which he deserves great praise. It is a pity that this good citizens' initiative is rejected mainly for technical reasons, but a good report from the committee obliges the government to prepare a bill to correct the shortcomings of the insurance doctor's system and to give it to Parliament in about a year's time. At the same time, the Board of Directors should clarify the form of statements made by insurance doctors. This is a very important step forward. Mr President! Therefore, the diagnosis of the doctor treating the right of insurance doctors should not be removed at a later stage, but appropriate justification and the associated professional ethical insurance should be required from the insurance doctors in future. At the moment, you can make a statement without seeing a patient, which does not fit the common sense at all, and this has caused pain and gray hair to countless Finns. Mr President! Finally, the system of citizens' initiatives, which has given rise to a great deal of debate, has this time proved its worth. I would also like to thank the Committee on Social Affairs and Health for the thorough work it has done and for the good statement it has made, which obliges the government to take urgent action to remedy the shortcomings of the insurance doctor's system. I believe that this is also the main content of the citizens' initiative. However, implementation still needs to be ensured by the next Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u132	Madam President! It is good that this debate has come up with a number of practical ways of improving the overall curve of the insurance doctor system and the disability system. We need more training for nursing doctors to apply for disability. We need better-written applications for disability. The applicant for an invalidity application must be better consulted in the future. In this context, it may be worth mentioning that the employment pension companies themselves have done good work in this regard. Many companies tend at least to provide telephone services if the customer contacts you. In addition, private pension companies cross-assess their own decisions and thus seek transparency and uniform practice in dealing with disability applications. We also need a doctor and a social worker to take a better catch in the future of a negative decision on a client, but we also need to clarify the legislation in this house. When I said that there are 11 different definitions of disability in the legislation, perhaps that is the biggest difference at the moment in the definition of invalidity for workers on the public side and for workers on the private side. If a public bus driver has a seizure, he will be treated according to the occupational disability definition, which in almost any case means that he will be granted an invalidity pension. If a private bus driver has a seizure, he hardly ever receives an invalidity decision, but his disability is assessed by general disability and takes into account his chances of doing any work other than being a bus driver in the future. In this way, it is essential that, when we know that private employment pension companies take care of the earnings-related pensions of the public sector, i.e. the state and local authorities, and that private pension companies take care of the earnings-related pensions of the private sector, and that we are already living in a situation where the public sector is moving to the private sector in record numbers, and when the social welfare reform is progressing in one way or another in the coming years, it is clear that the public sector is increasingly moving to the private side, then for the occupational pension system this means that there will be fewer public pensions and their contributors in the future. When one remembers that there are particularly low retirement ages on the public side, including teachers, soldiers and so on, we run out of opportunities to take care of these pensions. Therefore, the working group made a proposal the day before yesterday — with great unanimity — that Keva should be divided into public Keva, which will take care of these pensions already granted, and then into the occupational retirement pension system, which will become an employment pension company alongside other employment pension companies. In practice, this change should be made as quickly as possible. This government will not do it, but the sooner the future government will do it, the less the extra costs we will get out of this transfer. But when these pension systems are changed and when the role of Keva is changed, it will also mean that in this house we must change the definition of invalidity in the public sector to reflect the definition of disability on the private side, so that these combinations speak the same language. Therefore, when this citizens' initiative, which was taken, calls for clarification and amendment of the legislation, it is up to the future government to start that transformation work even when we are considering the future of Keva, so that we can continue to secure pensions for all Finns, which is, of course, a common goal state. Finns can be comforted by the fact that pensions will be paid on time as they should, but it will mean changes in occupational pension systems and also in the definition of disability. Hopefully, the future government will be ready to do so on a very fast schedule.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u133	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, in that debate, I said the essence of this citizens' initiative itself, and also thank the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and the authors of the initiative, as well as the representative of Parliament, Jari Ronkainen, who has been a driving force and a driving force in this Parliament. The stories of real life are harsh in these cases, when there is a dispute that, for example, a brain injury or an accident has forced us to fight for compensation or not. In fact, it can be said that in all speeches from the right side of the Chamber to the left, it has become clear that it is often a question of a person who does not necessarily have the strength, the strength, the ability to take the matter forward himself, and it is not necessarily a question of family members who are able to fight this battle, often against a rather overwhelming opponent. That is why I welcome the fact that this citizens' initiative is now moving forward. Here is a statement that not only requires the government to report but in fact requires the next government to submit a proposal to Parliament in the spring of 2020 to put this matter in order. This issue was raised last autumn, among other things, with the Supreme Court ruling, and Minister Häkkänen also took a position on the matter at the time and stated in September 2018 that an impartial system of opinions was needed on whether or not to receive compensation. I personally sign and hope that this study and the presentation will be based on looking through this whole, but also on creating a system that creates an impartial body for expert advice in situations where there is an insurance-medical dispute as to whether or not the person concerned is entitled to compensation. There have been glaring examples here where, in the worst cases, the doctor has never met the policyholder and the decisions have been made and they have been completely unreasonable. At least in these situations, but also in many others. In fact, what I still wanted to come to this Parliament's podium was the fact that, for almost all citizens' initiatives, we have still had a debate about the fact that the citizens' initiative system still needs to be corrected and updated. What this will be in the future, perhaps ten years from now, when more than one parliamentary term has been used for this system of citizens' initiatives, we do not yet know that, but already too often there are, for example, various technical reasons behind which Parliament has gone through these popular initiatives. I welcome the proposal made — it was a Member of the Left Alliance, I cannot remember whether it was Mr Modig or Mr Andersson — that the citizens' initiative system would in fact be taken as the main rule towards such an initiative system, in which the people would only show the will for what they want to change, and then there will be a debate in Parliament through committee, whether Parliament agrees with it, and then a decision will be taken in the same way as this report from the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, saying that action will be taken, taken, or, of course, the second option being that it will not unite with it and will not result in action. One thing that we have discussed on numerous occasions is the peculiarity of these initiatives that, after all, the legislative initiatives taken by our parliamentarians are going to lapse by parliamentary term, which is quite justified, because Parliament and governments are going to change in elections, but the people are not going to change, and that is why it is still absurd that citizens' initiatives should also be resettled when the government and parliament change. After all, it was decided to extend the deadline, which partly helped this situation. There will no longer be a situation in which it is worth noting the initiative when it has to be left knowing that Parliament will not be able to deal with it. There is now an opportunity to prolong the withdrawal beyond the elections, even if the names have been collected during the parliamentary term in question. I personally hope that this too will continue to be considered, that citizens' initiatives will not lapse in the elections, because the people will not change in elections, only Parliament and the government of our country. One of the things we need to think about is how quickly we can take so-called counter-initiatives on the same issue, new initiatives. We have already seen these in Finland. Is that a problem? That is something to be considered. One solution has been the one that has been put forward, and I myself have raised it, such a kind of counter-signature, a non-signature, in the case of a citizens' initiative. After all, we knew that things that divide the people very strongly will easily get signatures of that required 50,000, as much as 100,000 or more, but on the other hand we knew that the other aspect of that issue would receive at least as many signatures at least as quickly. Then one might think that the people could also sign such non-signatures, and we would also get information here from the point of view that 100,000 citizens are there to support something but, on the other hand, 200,000 are about to say no to it. This could also streamline and open up this situation better,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u134	Mr President! There must be a confession to Mr Ronkainen and his hard work. Mr Kankaanniemi made a good speech in that he pointed out that this important issue has indeed been on the table for decades but has not progressed anywhere. Here, when I listened to the good speeches made by Mr Kiljune and Mr Nurminen, Mr Kiljunen's speech in particular showed one important aspect of this issue. At one time as a lawyer and also here in Parliament, these so-called complaints and conversion applications had to be written a lot, and at that point you noticed very often what the problem is. This was the expertise of the physicians treating the attention of Mrs Kiljunen. We have a mixed practice of imposing a penalty, a disadvantage rate or a pension — more than a dozen laws are behind it, and in fact each has a slightly different way. I could see in these assignments that in practice we developed a so - called favorite medical system, where very often people began to pile up to be patients of doctors who thought it was easy for the average person to get a good statement. This is one of the Achilles' heel of this system, because there is a great risk that doctors, insurance doctors, will become prejudiced as soon as they see that aha, this is from this and this doctor, and it will inevitably appear to the content of their opinion undetected or deliberately. In that sense, it is very important that these statements should have been made as well as possible on the part of the treating doctor's system, with expert knowledge of insurance doctor activities and also careful examination, because we know very well that there will be no further examination of a patient at the top level. They will find a solution in accordance with a certain ranking list, supposedly balanced in terms of each issue, and then it will be very difficult to change the other. These contributions were very good in this respect and have taken this as a starting point. And I still want to pay tribute to Mr Ronkainen for his good work. Yes, this must be done in the next parliamentary term in such a way that this system will be in a modern, just state of affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u135	Madam President! It is good that Mr Juhantalo raised that one point. Of course, we must respect the expertise of the treating physician: it is perhaps a longer-term treatment relationship between the patient and the doctor — for example, the occupational doctor — and it is certainly a strong knowledge of history. However, when this is not enough, and at this stage the patient will usually seek a specialist’s opinion. But even that is not enough for an insurance doctor, and here it breaks all, the experience of justice and trust in the insurance doctor system. Then comes this grotesque remark to me that what is the difference between a fake doctor and an insurance doctor? Well, the fake doctor has seen the patient. If we are to get rid of this, we need something to feed this system. If the insurance doctor does not really trust the opinion of the treating physician — perhaps just in relation to some favorite medical system — then the insurance doctor could point out the specialist to whom to apply for a confirmatory opinion, but in terms of the patient’s legal security, this process should be continuous. Even now, in the labour market, it is customary that if an employer does not want to believe a doctor’s statement correctly when writing sick leave, for example, he can show you which doctor to go to, but then the employer will pay the costs. There should be a similar system here that the insurance company then replaces them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u140	Mr President! In this context, Mr Järvinen raised the issue of the municipal pension insurance company Keva, which has a monopoly on municipal pensions, and now the recent working group report on the division of Ms Keva into two. I was a little distracted by the fact that I was able to monitor the progress of this project on the board of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities as to whether it had an impact on insurance doctor activities, and with such a quick thought and study, I can’t find a direct connection with it whether it would weaken or strengthen the factors involved in receiving a pension. The distribution of Spring is largely based on the fact that private production has traditionally been very strong in these sectors of the public sector and has brought this system to such a crossroads, and it is now such a proposal to distribute the current Keva, which now holds 50 billion capital, into public and private Keva. It is a huge, huge change, but there is quite a lot of pressure on it, both in terms of responsibility and, in any case, in terms of the development independent of the regional and social reform, when all kinds of municipalities seem to privatise services, and then there will be a burden on Keva, but no payment revenue, and this will of course be the case. Indeed, I was wondering whether this would have an impact on insurance doctors — I cannot directly find it — but since it is a question, firstly, of organising half a million Finnish pensions in Spring and a huge change, the next government will have to take a stand on this and do careful work to ensure that there are no injustices in this regard as well. The information that I myself have received in that Association of Local and Regional Authorities is that no one's pension security here is compromised, but harmonisation is taking place, which means that the same status will gradually be achieved between the municipal and private bus driver. After all, this reform is due to enter into force in 2027, which means that there is a transitional period.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u141	Madam President! Although there is a health professional present in this Chamber — and I do not know if there are more — and I do not represent the profession myself, as a Member of Parliament I was very pleased with it already. I would like to support an earlier legislative initiative in this area. However, I would like to say that, as Mr Juhani said there, much remains to be done for the next government, including this issue, and of course it would have been very desirable for Mr Ronkainen's original legislative initiative and this citizens' initiative to have been able to move forward already during this parliamentary term, because the clear, obvious problem which Parliament is now very unanimous on remains to be corrected by the next government. It must be hoped that the next government will make rapid progress, that such an arbitrary withdrawal of medical statements from a colleague who has not seen a patient will no longer continue in this republic, but will also enter into the system of increasing public confidence, in which a doctor manages, knows the customer, knows the situation and makes the necessary measures and decisions. The matter which is also necessary for the protection of a person's rights will also be rectified.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u142	Mr President! I would simply say to Mr Kankaanie that we already have harmonised pension benefits, i.e. we do not have better municipal pensions than we have private pensions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u149	Madam President! I too am going to vote, and I hope that a good Parliament will come. But when there are examples of this activity of insurance doctors, I also tell them: I am very surprised when there was a case of four limb stroke, that is, the guy was completely immobilized, and I am now able to say that he is incapacitated, but the insurance doctor had found that the injury that had come to him was from an earlier accident. This quadriplegic paralysis had come from the day he fell down from the telling in the buildings, and I wonder how he got there with that injury.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u150	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 36/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u151	Madam President! So this is a question of equity savings accounts and the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on this matter. I myself belong to the tax section of the Committee on Finance, where the same thing is currently being dealt with under another law. After all, with regard to this draft law, the Social Democrats have tabled their own objections, which will eventually end up with a disaster, and I am sure that Mr Ihalainen will later be speaking more about this in the committee's view. I was looking at this objection from our group in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and I personally wanted to say that we have raised some very pertinent questions. First of all, it is said that it is quite questionable whether this has a beneficial effect on the so-called 'capitalism', or whether it only benefits a part of the population that is now active in investment. Here, however, it is said that tax losses could move around 160 million, and yes, these days I would like to say that when we are thinking here about the fact that the government is already cutting the weakest for the fourth time — for example, through the indexes, basic security is being cut, there is not enough money for low-income pensioners, and in the almanac the government will never have enough space for low-income people, but only cuts — so is it really worth creating a questionable new form of reducing the tax base in such a way that it may then break down even about 160 million from our common treasury, really?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u154	Mr President! This proposal by the Board of Directors for a new equity savings account is very welcome. It encourages Finns to actively save and invest. This is a positive thing. At the same time, it will also improve the opportunities for Finnish companies to grow and receive funding for their expansion and thus finance new investments. Share savings accounts will be provided by banks and investment firms, and the account may be invested up to EUR 50000. Of course, funds can and should be used to reduce the risk to buy both domestic and foreign listed shares. With the approval of Parliament, the law will open accounts from the beginning of 2020. I would have preferred to have done this before, but that is what has been decided. The strength of the account lies in the fact that you only have to pay tax on the incomes and dividends of your investments when you withdraw money from your account. This allows even a small investor to take advantage of the interest rate phenomenon when it is not necessary to pay a profit tax separately for each sale, but the entire return can be reinvested, just like what is happening in the funds today. The reform brings small investors investing in shares to the same line as large investors and fund savers. The share savings account does not exempt the payment of taxes, but only transfers it to the withdrawal of assets. The government always gets itss in the end. This is intended to encourage an increasing number of Finns to invest in a long-term way, which will later bring benefits both in terms of higher tax revenue and in terms of improving the normal Finnish financial position, as has already been the case in Sweden, for example. The account has raised criticism in the left-wing parties. It is difficult to understand why the left is opposed to a reform that specifically improves the position of a normal Finnish small investor and facilitates access to finance for domestic companies. This alone brings back the estimated tax loss of 160 million. In Sweden and Norway, for example, similar account models have been popular and have increased people’s interest in investing and own finances. Small investment is becoming more common and the share savings account further strengthens this positive trend. We are moving in Finland in the wake of other Nordic countries towards genuine national capitalism, where an increasing number of ordinary Finns benefit from the success of domestic companies worldwide through investment returns. Right now is a good time to start looking for good investments, because stock prices are falling, and in a year's time at the latest, the trend will probably be rising. The most successful investors have always been able to buy cheaply and keep the investment for a long time. Saving shares in the past 100 years has been the best way to invest their assets. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u155	Mr President! In the debate on the subject of this long-standing proposal encouraging popular capitalism, I was interested, at least not in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, in waiting for the report and what the committee may have seen as necessary to amend and correct in this proposal. It was then that the debate pointed out that this is, in fact, like an investment fund that a small investor can now control. In other words, assets can be transferred within the fund without direct tax consequences, and now it can be done by the investor himself and not just by the bank or investment company from which the fund was purchased. At the time, I thought it was good that, at least on a principle level, Finland would move away from such a hand-to-mouth living towards some kind of domestic ownership. What I still do not understand is what tax avoidance is now being discussed by the left-wing parties in this protest and in these speeches, because this is not about the possibility of tax avoidance. When those profits are released from that fund, you have to pay the taxes. In other words, taxes may go to a later date, but they will ultimately have to be paid for profits. That means that if you can put up a maximum of EUR 50000 in the fund, there is no great financial speculation at all. I am particularly surprised that this is where the motion for rejection has been taken. Would there not have been enough expertise in the Socialist Group to have some sort of amendment written here, even in some way, as an eye-to-eye snow? If there are flaws in the proposal, could they not try to correct it, or is it only ideologically opposed to everything possible?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u156	Mr President! The Social Democrats, the Left and the Greens in the committee actually tabled a rejection of the draft laws, because the proposal would result in significant tax losses, but its benefits are uncertain, so I will answer the questions put just now by the honourable Member. According to the explanatory memorandum of the Government’s bill, tax losses may exceed EUR 150 million. Value increases accumulated in the account shall not be taxed in full if the assets accumulated in the equity savings account are passed on to inheritance. Through the example of investment insurance, in which this type of tax treatment already exists, we know that a significant part of the increase in value in the equity savings account will not be taxed. A tax base leak is also caused by the fact that dividends collected into an account are not taxed if the account holder is a foreigner or if the Finnish holder moves abroad. Mr President! In other words, it also explains in the government's own explanatory statement how this is not just a question of postponing taxation, but also creates permanent gaps in the tax base and inaccessibility. Mr President! This proposal is justified by the fact that it contributes to the neutrality of the tax treatment of investment forms. However, making new gaps in the tax base is not a desirable direction, but should limit existing tax advantages and tax avoidance opportunities for existing investment instruments such as investment insurance. In other words, the neutrality of tax treatment for different types of investment should not be sought by creating new gaps but by removing existing gaps. Mr President! In order to justify such high tax losses, the benefits should be proportionately significant. However, this will not necessarily be the case. The stock savings account will hardly significantly increase investment or benefit the national economy. Of course, it is likely that some of the investment assets will be transferred to the equity savings account, just as Sweden has done, but small investment through this instrument will hardly be significantly increased. Small investment is often hindered either by a lack of funds, what to invest, or by a lack of skills or a lack of willingness to invest. Moreover, for small investors, the attractiveness of this instrument is likely to be reduced by the accumulation of administrative costs. Mr President! Sweden has a more generous share savings account, i.e. even more attractive from the point of view of investors and tax treatment. It has caused considerable tax losses from the central government’s perspective, but the total number of equity investors has not increased. I repeat: the number of investors has not increased. In other words, existing investors have changed their behaviour so that they have moved from direct ownership, transferred their holdings to these equity savings accounts, where these tax advantages exist, but the total investment has not increased. There is therefore no credible reason to assume that there would be a significant change in Finland and that this stock savings account, contrary to Sweden, would suddenly increase investment a lot. Mr President! On these grounds, at second reading, I shall support the motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u157	Mr President! Indeed, there is a government proposal for a share savings account, the introduction of which obviously increases the preconditions for national capitalism and improves the chances of a normal Finnish citizen to invest in shares from wages and salaries, and especially in domestic shares. In particular, in the form that has been corrected by the committee, I believe that the draft law is likely to increase the understanding of the economy for Finns, especially if they are inspired by the proposal to increase their wealth through direct stock saving — and I am now deliberately talking about stock saving, not investing. It must now be said that Finnish national capitalism is relatively weak, for example, compared to our western neighbour, Sweden. We have over EUR 80 billion of citizens' wealth lying somewhat inefficient and unproductive in bank accounts. I do not think that it makes any sense to maintain civil wealth, especially during such low interest rates. Mr President! With the realisation of the equity savings account, direct equity investments become attractive not only for savings but also, for example, for equity funds that charge expensive management fees. At the same time, ordinary stock savers are much closer to tax, for example, to the treatment of large tax-raising foundations, which I think is at least right and fair. In short, this proposal gives many ordinary people a much better chance of increasing their own wealth, which, through stock saving, can grow from a small nest egg by regular saving over the years to quite nice amounts. Mr President! I must also be absolutely surprised at this objection made by the Green Left, which calls for this whole good bill to be rejected. I do not believe that this motion for rejection is reasonable or sufficiently justified, especially given that this bill contains a limit of EUR 50000 for investments or deposits in a equity savings account. This should certainly ensure that the beneficiaries of this bill are above all the average income,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u158	Mr President! So now we really have a proposal that provides for a new equity savings account that would enable the creation and use of equity savings accounts in investment operations. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has drawn up this report, and it is also accompanied by an objection based, above all, on the analyses and assessments carried out by the expert working groups of the Ministry of Finance on business taxation and investment in shares and not on any windfalls. Firstly, it is important to see that these losses and benefits are not balanced. This risk that the number of investors does not necessarily increase, as has happened in Sweden, is one important observation. It is true that the maximum amount of EUR 50000 can be put into the equity savings account, but what we have wanted to pay attention to is that this leads to a breach of our tax base. It breaks it because it appears from the draft law on the taxation of the equity savings account that the proposal would significantly reduce the tax base and allow tax avoidance. This is, of course, due to the fact that dividends and sales profits collected on the equity savings account are not taxed. When they are raised, taxation is based on capital taxation. This has therefore been estimated to result in losses for some 100 million states on the basis of the government's proposal. And when these accrued dividends are not taxed, if the account holder is from abroad, then there will be another 56 million losses for the state. In this respect, the working group assessing the tax treatment of the various forms of investment in the Ministry of Finance expressed a negative view that the tax exemption from the equity savings account would also apply to dividends as proposed by the Government. That is also what we have wanted to rely on. Moreover, it should be noted that the report of the expert group of the Ministry of Finance, which has considered corporate taxation, has reached the same conclusions: the provisions on the exemption of small dividends would not have any obvious or immediate impact on domestic economic growth, that is to say, employment and the strengthening of the financial position of households. On these grounds, among other things, we felt that this proposal was not worthy of support, and we believe that this proposal should be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u159	Madam President! In August last year, the government presented a proposal in its budget line that Finnish private individuals will receive investment savings accounts in the future, and this would come into force from 2020. This is significant that you can deposit money into the equity savings account and buy stock exchange shares with this money so that the profits and dividends are not taxed within the account annually. The tax only goes when funds are withdrawn from the account and there is no time limit for withdrawals. In my opinion, the government and the draftsmen of the bill have done well to tax the proportion of relative profits in raising funds from the euro. The above-mentioned investment insurance policies, which have sometimes been raised here in the debate, are also intended to be taxed on this same principle in the future, since until now they have been able to increase the tax-free share of the capital invested and then leave the profit to the munch. All reason is that this new stock savings account will increase the much-speaked national capitalism. After all, the government's decision also includes this limit of 50,000 for the capital to be deposited, which has also been mentioned here. Fortunately, however, it is so high, albeit moderate, that it does not harm the start-up users of the equity savings account or even at this stage some trained savers. And then, of course, the return on the investment account can go beyond this 50 000, that is to say, the very important question is being raised — even in terms of costs, as has been mentioned here, but, of course, I challenge the opposition to the fact that what is the proposal for what is national capitalism, which feels that there is support both on the right side and on the left and in the middle of this Chamber, unless there is a solution of this kind which, as far as I am concerned, gives rise to the very effects that have been sought. At the moment, however, tens of billions of euros of Finnish money is lying on accounts without any reasonable use. They receive a small interest rate, but it does not, of course, have any major economic significance. It is precisely the fact that they are lying there on accounts that is of great importance to the economy. They need to be placed, they need to be produced, and this is a good tool for that, in my view.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u160	Mr President! Good arguments have been put forward here for this government proposal and report, and I agree with them. I am rather surprised at this resistance from the red - greens. This is a hand-out for a Finnish working family and a pensioner who has a few ten thousand euros in his bank account, as is the case with a lot of people, because I think we have about 90 billion dollars in bank accounts, say, mostly lazy money. Now you can make them produce from that zero heel.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u167	Mr President! I must say that this debate and this praise for the government's proposal are quite egotrips. So investing is a good thing, and anyone with extra money can do it, but then the question arises as to whether this is the area in which tax euros are to be used.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u178	Madam President! The former Minister of Finance, Eero Heinäluoma, spoke above, and under the Social Democrats this similar practice is allowed for large investors. Now, by this government, this is also allowed for ordinary low-income, middle-income Finns, [EeroHeinäluoma requests reply ] Thus, the share savings account will be available in 2020, and the account will therefore be subject to the tax treatment of investment funds, i.e. the tax would also be paid on the proceeds of the investments of these ordinary Finnish small investors only when the funds are withdrawn from that account. The dividends may therefore be reinvested within this equity savings account without having to pay tax between them. A ceiling of EUR 50000 has been set here for these funds, but of course that return can come on top of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u181	Mr President! Representative Heinonen is masterful in going behind various apparent structures. President Rinne is an open-minded politician, as he should be. He is prepared to listen to the government's proposals and their arguments.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u188	Mr Heinonen, the reply, and then we go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u189	Mr President! I would like to ask Mr Heinäluoma, former Minister of Finance: when you Social Democrats have allowed this type of tax treatment and arrangement for large investors, why do you object to the fact that this is now being made available to quite ordinary Finns, i.e. also giving middle-income families, for example, a chance to save a little bit of money and thus gradually become wealthy? Why are you opposed to it and have allowed this system to be extended to large investors? And is it not so that this 160 million will not be lost anywhere, but that it will be precisely a transferable tax revenue?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u190	Mr President! What do we need in Finland? Of course, we need entrepreneurship. We need more Finnish investment, Finnish capital, also foreign capital, but also Finnish capital. So we must also encourage ordinary people to invest. I regret that social democratic tax policy has now gone to populism and stupid populism. Indeed, as Mr Heinonen said, at the time the demars were reducing corporation tax revenue by 4.5 percentage points, but they do not give it to business names or ordinary partnerships. Congressman Heinäluoma, you were about to abolish the property tax at the time. I thought it was the right thing to do, because it was such a failed tax, but you were involved at the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u193	Mr President! Now that this tax base discussion was started, I recall a case: When the car tax was about to be calculated and calculated by the government, was it so that the Social Democrats felt that there was a gap of 200 million in the tax base, but then when the car trade accelerated, 80 million more taxes were added. In other words, I would ask a little question as to whether this supposed loss of 160 million, perhaps just a postponement, is more speculative. Does it also include possible multiplier effects and benefits, and is it based on the assumption that this stock savings account will be popular at all? In other words, there can be no such tax losses unless this stock savings account is widely stimulated by the public. Not even in principle can there be tax losses unless this is used. Is this so tempting that it's used? I don't think we know the answer to this. In his speech, Mr Kankaanniemi raised a good point about these bank accounts in Finland, which is quite a Finnish phenomenon. The Finns are rather afraid to invest, and I think that getting this money going and producing should be encouraged that the Finns dare to start investing this money and get out of that hand-to-mouth model towards some sort of ownership, and this proposal may encourage it. In his speech, representative Ihalainen pointed out that dividends from the equity savings account should be taxed. But will dividends from investment funds be taxed now if they are capitalised into the investment fund? After all, it is taxed if the investment fund is of a type of income, i.e. if it is subject to annual dividends, it is subject to capital taxes. But if that proceeds to raise the capital of its fund, I am not sure whether they are currently taxed, and if they are not taxed, then it would only take small equity savings investments to the same level, to the same rights as investment funds. I now fail to understand why the SDP feels that this would be a bad thing for these two different types of retail investment instruments to be treated in the same way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u194	Madam President! In that speech, when the positions relating to driving were reminiscent of, I still find it very surprising that the Finns of Peru were almost the first to come to the government — that is, the Finns of Peru have been in the government here — to raise the gas tax. We had to raise the gas tax. The average driver and the people pay, so that apparently these, who can afford to invest, can benefit from tax relief. Was it worth it, the Finns, now raising the gas tax so that you can give tax relief elsewhere to those who happen to have 50,000 in that bank account? A lot of people don't, Speaker.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u197	Mr President! Indeed, in the autumn of 2005, Mr Heinäluoma became Minister of Finance, and, nearing that, you introduced the abolition of the property tax from that toilet. Its return amounted to over EUR 100 million per year,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u210	Madam President! It is a pleasure to listen to representative Kankaanniemi in the sense that the old familiar Kankaanniemi from 2015 to 2017 has returned.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u217	Madam President! This new government proposal, which has come as a report from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to this great Chamber, seems to me to be on a good and very strong basis in view of the future of Finland. When you look at the current situation of Finnish companies, the first truth is that 80 per cent of these 140,000 new jobs, if I remember correctly, have been created specifically in small companies. And what is the biggest problem for small businesses? The main problem at the moment is certainly that they have a very large shortage of capital. They would invest in new machinery and equipment and in new production buildings, but, for some reason, access to capital from banks requires huge guarantees, and for many small companies, access to such capital is even too expensive so that it will never be invested. In that sense, this new law on the equity savings account and the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on that government proposal are very good and well-founded. This is something to remember for all of us, even if you look through the glasses of the lust taxer, as I have been able to conclude from these speeches that some believe that the only way to manage the state and public finances is a huge increase in taxes. Well, I think that this country has tried enough, and its effects we all know that they are the worst poison to the economy of all things that can be.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u220	I see that Mr Kankaanniemi is strongly present here in the history department once again, and he is at his best when he goes to this history writing. That is one of the common features of all his appearances here on all these nights and sometimes during the day: when he was in the government as a minister or as a representative of the government party, things were very good and went even better. Of course, the best time was for Aho’s government. That was a fantastic time when unemployment was only half a million and government debt was of the order of magnitude of being taken over by foreign institutions, such as the World Monetary Fund, and taxation was at a record high level. Never has taxation been as high as in Esko Aho’s government. So that's the record that hasn't been broken so far. Since then, taxation has been moderated as regards, for example, the taxation of wage and pension income, as is right. But it's a record. It's a record, and it hasn't come to that. We have had a debate on wealth taxes on a very many occasions, and I remember that last time these figures were passed: 75 million were the proceeds of the property tax. The first government of Vanhanen carried out a very good and well-founded tax reform when it brought dividends to the tax. That is when the assembly announced that it would be a matter of government for them if dividends were to be taxed. Under no circumstances do they accept the taxation of dividends. Well, with a stick in the eye that remembers the old ones. Fortunately, dividends came to the tax because they were a deviation from this right and only acceptable principle of Kari S. Tikka, which is a broad tax base. When as many people as possible pay, no one’s tax burden becomes unreasonable. That income on dividends was therefore EUR 500 million a year, and it was a pretty good reform of justice, which was carried out by Vanhanen's first government. Nor have I noticed that when the Finns of Finland came to the government and Mrs Kankaanniemi pressed the green button here, they would have made it a condition to increase the corporation tax — I have not noticed — nor would they have made it a condition for a property tax. In view of the great success of the Finnish people in the last election, I am quite sure that if you had made a property tax conditional, then the centre and the assembly would have wanted you so much that they would have recovered that tax, even though it has been abolished in general in the world. History can take place, but today we are dealing with the question of whether another new gap will be made in taxation, which will cost some 160 million in the next few years and which will be paid to others — the ordinary Finns who are unable to organise their taxes. There are countless good arguments for this too, one of which has been heard again today, and that is encouragement. It is interesting to hear that whenever you have to encourage, who is encouraged? Those who are doing pretty well. They are given these tax advantages. To those with extra money. All credit to them, great thing, and many of them it comes from hard work, great thing. But so that they do not lie down in that bank with lazy capital, a tax advantage is given. And what will be done when these low incomes — even those voters in Peru — become unemployed? What are they offered? Active model. There's a stick coming. Those who do well are encouraged by tax benefits, for example, it is the extra tax deduction made for very large forest holdings, which was accurate for high incomes, or a pharmacy deduction that brought EUR 15,000 a year to many pharmacies. EUR 15000 per year is not quite a small sum in a sector that has been regulated and where competition has been blocked and where income formation is absolutely certain and predictable. EUR 15000 was the result of this tax policy. I could list others here, but since they have already been decided on, I will not go into it, but I will go into this philosophy. Is it really the case that every time you want to encourage low-income people to do something, it is a stick, and when you have this proportion of people with extra money, you are in a situation where you need that tax carrot? I think a lot of people are starting to see through this debate and ask whether this is a fair policy, what is being done here. You're perfectly free to invest right now, aren't you? Here the assembly said quite succulently that when high incomes have such an advantage — but that is exactly what we have proposed to remove. After all, this whole debate started at the beginning of this parliamentary term — even when the Finns of Peru had just pressed the green button on the government programme — so that there are insurance envelopes through which you can avoid taxation and take advantage of it, and I understand that it was because I am not wrong about the public debate, including the government ministers, which gave a great deal more impetus to this debate. Now this arrangement is paying for salt money and trying to show that we should not interfere with these great-rich privileges. Compared to the very sensible principle of Kari S. Tikka that a broad tax base is taxed on the real income of all, this is precisely the wrong way to go, and when you go in the wrong direction, the bills will be paid, and then they will appear either in the form of debt or higher taxation for ordinary people or both. That is why there is no way to support this proposal. There's no way to pay. And on what we have seen in the statement by the Ministry of Finance, as a former minister, I would say that this is quite exceptional. I do not remember, however, that there would be a number of government proposals, except for the social reform, in which the proposal already contained a number of key weaknesses, which is why not everyone could consider them sensible. Of course, what the VM's staff has done here is a service to the truth, but it is ugly to read that the staff's assessment of the employment effects on which they have been sworn here is that they do not exist. [Hannu Hoskonen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u221	Mr President! In his recent speech, Congressman Heinäluoma gave a couple of false proofs of the True Finns, and I will be the first to correct them. In other words, the voters of the Finns themselves are not, in any way, low-income or unemployed, but, in fact, according to studies, our supporters are the people who are the most in permanent employment. And the fact that we were in favour of an active model is not true, but the Group of the Finns Party voted against the active model as a group.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u225	Madam President! Still wondering about this debate, the next thing I could say is: When Mr Heinäluoma spoke just now that the Eskon Aho government took the debt most and in a terrible situation, yes, Mr Heinäluoma, if you go to the large capital markets in Europe, then as a Member of the European Parliament — if there is any chance that elections will go well — I hope that you will not be spreading this information to a very large group. It may stir up joy among the people who held Finland up at the time. I'm sure you remember why the government at the time went into a situation that was absolutely terrible. Surely no person who understands economic policy claims that Esko Aho’s government did not take up debt for the guarantee that it had to. Well, of course it was forced to take it when the bankruptcy estate was being run, or should I have left the pensions unpaid, schools closed, health centers closed, go to this American model, that we put the state administration on hold when there is no money? It was an option. There were two options, and we had to choose the smaller one, and the smaller one was to get credits from abroad. I remember one speaker from Iiro Vii-Nanen when he said on television that he was going to the Far East to get money, that we could get the government to run and pay for pensions. Fortunately, there was enough courage for these political decision-makers and Holker/ErkliLiikea/ Matti This was the way Louekoski's bankruptcy estate was handled at the time. If you accuse Esko Aho that it was Esko Aho's fault, then it is worth reading more deeply the books on economic policy and the parliamentary minutes, because if your political ambience is at that level, then I have some doubts about the chances of success. But, of course, the jealous can turn this the other way around, that it was Esko Aho’s fault. Remember what a major reform took place at the time: after all, a capital tax reform was introduced and a corporate tax credit system was created, an avoir fiscal system created by companies to raise capital in companies. This avoir fiscal system made it possible, and the balance sheets of companies were strengthened, and it created a system which, through the consolidation of the corporate balance sheet, enabled companies to keep people at work during the recession and to wait for the next boom, and everything is fine. In fact, today we are still thanking this system, and it was done at the time in a situation when action was required. We didn't have much of a choice. We were about to get caught up in the International Monetary Fund, and what would have happened to us if we had been there? I can't even imagine. I would like to see a somewhat higher level of this debate so that we do not need to hear such claims that it was Esko Ahon's fault. It's the same thing as when the house is on fire and the fire department goes out, then the fire department is accused that you set the fire. I hope that the level of debate will be a little better.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u226	Mr President! I do not really know what to say to this because I think Mr Heinäluoma has made an excellent speech. What he's been referring to before governments, he's been telling us how things have been.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u233	Mr President! I have said many times in various debates that I do not believe in these archaeological excavations as such, but it cannot be done so much that when this is taken here to the History Department,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u238	Mr President! Representative Viitanen here earlier claimed — or at least between the lines I thought I read, I think it came from there quite clearly — that the True Finns would act as some kind of government aid party.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u241	Mr President! I have not now received an answer as to the kind of companies that invest in this equity savings account. I think that is an essential factor when Mr Hoskonen here spoke of the fact that these small businesses, which are very sympathetic and which are all in favour, are the beneficiaries of this. But I'll stay and ask them, "Are they profiting?" Surely someone here who is in favour of this proposal can answer this question, or is it that you are in favour of something you do not know what you are in favour of? Is Mr Hokkonen right, or is he saying something that does not correspond to what this government bill is? However, this tax advantage is quite significant, and it is clear that these companies, which are the focus of investment here, can also benefit from it. Of course, it is clear that the 160 million will come for payment, because in a few moments this debt will be horrified. And then again, we have to put an end to the debt, and then it is said that the money ran out and there is no money for the carer's allowance, because now we have this debt and we can't get into debt anymore and the previous Parliament has been able to accept this stock savings account and this extra deduction from the owners of large forest farms and its pharmacy deduction, and what else is there? I venture to believe — here is still time — that one of the representatives of the government parties or the representatives of the Finns Party present will tell me which shares, which kind of companies I can invest in this investment account by investing in. Then this circle begins to close when this answer is received.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u242	Madam President! It is true, however, that next season we will certainly have to make certain choices in terms of values. After all, once again we cannot think that a party, such as the Finns of Peru, would do what is called the Finns of Peru, that is to say, go to the elections and promise everyone everything and then, when the real place comes, everything would be done in the opposite way. That's the unfortunate thing that happened last time. The first was the Soini 1 aid package, which was made in Greece, then the poorest were cut down on the indexes and increased the gas tax, and whatever happened there. So now I could demand and hope for the commitment of all the parties that what we are talking about before the elections — certain priorities and objectives that we will tell — will also be held after the elections. That's why I'm extremely worried, because I know there's not an extra 160 million in the air that suddenly comes out of the air, but with this math, it's out of the way, isn't it? It is something out of place, and this kind of money is already significant when we talk about, for example, how we can manage the nurse’s measurements. Or when we talk about the amounts of money that have been cut in this period — for example, with regard to these index freezes, for example, people's basic security, small pensions, unemployment security, everything has been cut — they are about this size of money where they move. Now, you would think that a little value choices would be made by this Chamber, especially when we decide for the future, that is, what will happen next season when this law is laid down. That is also what this is all about, and that is why I hope that this debate will be honest.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u243	Mr President! Representative to Mr Viitanen as a comment: True, the Finns promised spending cuts of between EUR 2 billion and EUR 3 billion before the 2015 elections. This is a verifiable issue from our electoral programmes. But the good news is that the Social Democrats promised much greater spending cuts and promised them what the government had done, but much greater than the government has done. Now, however, the Social Democrats have barked at the opposition all these cuts in turn, which you would have done yourself if you had been in the government. So, from a little honesty in this conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u244	Madam President! It's an interesting conversation with all of us. Here came a little like this division line, which defended a broad tax base and correspondingly such a tax model, in which, as it were, picked up those raisins, although not then pointed out, covering the tax base from which these cuts are presented. It is a little difficult to follow such a debate — a little look in that direction for the Finns — which forgets its own, a little over two years of government, during which the big decisions were made which, on the one hand, may have started to seek stability in the state economy with certain solutions but, at the same time, weakened the interests of many employees and people. It would be honest to bring them up here, too. Ultimately, we, as the security guards of the state treasury, are responsible for ensuring that we have services that work, are fair and reasonable, and people have jobs, livelihoods and well-being, and, above all, when the state has money to put in something, they are now trying to put them in the real places. At the same time, we cannot assume that tax reductions are being made, and at the same time we should try to cover the services, as is now the case with the example of Esperi Care. The need for money there would be more on the side of services than it already is on the side of such tax breaks, I am not saying to rich but wealthy people. But is it true, the True Finns, that you get what you want?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u245	Madam President! Yes, that previous question is frighteningly good, because, under the last election, the people thought they were ordering, for example, what Timo Soini was then telling us spectacularly. The True Finns then announced at Soin’s mouth that the lowest incomes, the weakest ones, cannot and should not be cut. Yes, the surprise was when the new government was put together, and even the government program signed by the Finns of Peru came into force, and immediately the first job was cut off from the lowest incomes, which could not and should not be cut in any way. This is how it happened. And that is precisely because we have this history and we have seen this, I fear, President, that we are already making value choices with these proposals, that we are going to have new gaps in our tax base and that we are going to lose tax revenue, while, on the contrary, we need common resources to put right the most glaring flaws that we unfortunately have in our society.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u246	Mr President! Was it now representative Heinäluoama or who asked about this where to invest, and I will answer first here: Of course, there has now been a debate here about whether these are small or large companies in which to invest. After all, there is a large number of companies with a market value of less than EUR 10 million on the stock market. If necessary, they may apply for additional capital through share issues. For example, it is perfectly possible to invest in these. I do not see any contradiction here as to the fact that this could not strengthen the balance sheet of even small companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u253	Madam President! The Finns of Peru have now been called a government Iipale, and it must be acknowledged that we have a very failed journey.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u256	Mr President! It is important that this question should now be illustrated as to which companies to invest in this advantage. As was referred to here a little bit, this law states these conditions under which action should be taken. In other words, it is an activity under the Securities Markets Act. Now the question is that if I wanted to invest in Mr Hakkarainen's sawmill company, whether this will give me a tax advantage or whether it is necessary to comply with the requirements of the Securities Markets Act. A rather different group of companies comes from companies required by the Securities Markets Act than from small family companies, such as a sawmill company. It would be pretty important for the representatives to know.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u259	Madam President! Representative Heinäluoma pointed out that Finnish retail investors were somehow an insignificant group. However, 800,000 people in Finland own stock exchange shares. Yes, it is a significant group, and when compared to Sweden, where this type of system has been introduced some years ago, there are 2.2 million equity savings accounts for 1.8 million Swedes, which means that at least this has had a significant impact. Of course, if you think about where you really can't invest through this stock savings account — precisely not be able to invest — then my idea is that housing, real estate, forest, unlisted companies can't invest, and, of course, these things, say the most speculative investment products are also excluded from this account. It is also important that it is not possible to transfer current holdings to this account when this becomes available. Of course, it also affects the use of the account in the early stages, so that we then have to deal with the new shares in that respect, that is to say sell them and then put them here in the account. But I think we're gonna get that effect... There will be no immediate effect, as stated in this expert assessment, but I believe that there will be an impact over several years. Then there is the question of 160 million: yes, there are also experts who believe that it is precisely as Mr Heinonen said it will be delayed and not about lost revenue from the state.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u260	President! Specifically, if you act as this allows in those situations when you give inheritances or when you transfer this ownership abroad for a while, it can transfer it so that never these taxes will be paid. It is therefore pointless to say that every penny will come back from here sooner or later, sometimes in 10 to 20 years' time. Not necessarily. You don't have to say that. On the contrary, the assessment suggests that this form explicitly encourages tax planning in particular. So that's what it's all about. But, President-in-Office, I asked for this speech because it was probably — I think — reference was made to this very good objective of the SDP, to the rejection of pensioner poverty and to the fact that, within a certain time limit, EUR 100 will be added to the most low-income pensioners. I think that is a very important objective, a very good one. When even the Finns of Finland criticized it in advance and doubted that we would not get there and that in four years' time we would ask, could the Finns of Finland not even, as a party, commit themselves to this same goal? So do I now come to the wrong conclusion when it comes to this, that the Finns are not in favour of improving the livelihood of the most low-income pensioners? So do the Finns of Finland not agree that you could work with us in the joint front to get it 100 euros for pensioners who earn less than 1400 euros next season? Would you not rather commit yourself to this, because together we could make it easier for you to move forward than to tell us in advance that otherwise you will not succeed, and you are a little guilty that you are going to talk like that? For the sake of clarity, so that there is no doubt about this, I would like you to give me an answer to this fact that you are in favour of this aim of improving the EUR 100 to the most low-income pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u262	Madam President! From this stock savings account to the extent to which it has an impact on central government finances. If taxes are paid on income, as has been suggested in Finland, then the total amount of tax revenue is likely to be in the same order as it is today. It is precisely as Mr Heinonen said at the outset that the tax payment will be postponed but will not be completely abolished. As far as this debate is concerned about the Finns of Finland or how they are led in due course, I am surprised that there are rules in any Finnish party, especially in the parliamentary party, that even the chairman can act like a real dictator. It's up to the majority in the party board. In the parliamentary group, the majority will decide.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u265	We have a number of issues to deal with. Let us stick to this point, paragraph 5, as a proposal to the Parliament for a law on the stock savings account and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u266	Madam President! Congressman Heinäluoma feared that these would flow abroad. There is a limit of 50,000, and this will be used by ordinary Finnish working families and perhaps by some pensioners who have saved a few tens of thousands. They must put some of their savings in the account, perhaps 10,000, so that they can prepare for unexpected situations, but put up a maximum of 50,000 of their excesses in these accounts and make a profit instead of lying lazy there in a bank account. This is very wise. I am still asking and wondering what is the policy of social democrats for entrepreneurship. What is it? You sometimes hit entrepreneurs as hard as a Finnish politician can — and you will not have a choice.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u273	Mr President! I think it is a little close to that, but I asked for the floor before this intensive delimitation of the debate. I would like to ask Mr Viitanen: when Mr Rinne's vow of May Day on the memory of pensioners applies only to national and guaranteed pensions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u278	Let's stick to this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u279	Yeah, I'd appreciate it. Here, too, there is much to talk about. But when President Rinne said that pensions for those who earn less than EUR 1400 should be raised, I think that there are not very many people in that category who have a national pension and a guaranteed pension.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u282	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u286	Madam President! That's exactly how it's gonna be. But that much is what we have to fix here — I do not know if Mr Kiviranta read his own papers by mistake, for example, in the city centre. [Esko Kiviranta’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u287	Madam President! It would be desirable for Mr Heinäluoma to become an investor in the sawmill, but this is true for listed companies so that it is impossible to enter the family share company. Let it be fixed. But to this line and taxation of the Finns of Peru: Let me give you a concrete example of that. A lumberjack retired, and when he was working, he had a saw cut off of that part of the chainsaw because he had to buy it himself. But that share of the saw was deducted from his pension. Now he was left with a small pension, but he was very skilful in living and investing the small income that was left of it, and he has succeeded in doing so. Now he even has an ATV. He's 70 years old now, and I'm sure he's made a long, hard career. Are we not going to allow that ATV to this man and not give the IRS that part of the ATV? Isn't that right, Congressman Heinäluoma?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u288	Yes, just like that, Mr Hakkarainen, we allow and we are happy and encourage people to save, but I will just stay and ask whether this can not be done in accordance with normal tax legislation. Can this not be done in accordance with normal tax legislation? Why do you have to give extra tax benefits to those who have that extra money, as the government is now proposing? That is my question in the circumstances in which we come back to the situation where, in a few moments, we will have Minister Orpo and Prime Minister Sipilä, who say that we cannot make a nurse's appointment when there is no money.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u289	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u294	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 34/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u295	Mr President! The Government's proposal at first reading takes account of the changes in the tax legislation resulting from the change in investment finance legislation adopted by this Chamber on 25 January this year. At this stage of the evening, it is appropriate to use the short hymn beautiful principle, and this is a question of placing domestic and foreign funds in the same position in taxation in situations where the foreign fund is comparable to the Finnish tax-free investment or special investment fund. The committee proposes a government proposal for adoption without amendment and the committee's report contains three objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u296	Madam President! So here too, as Social Democrats, we are in favour of this proposal itself, but we do indeed have a proposal for a statement on how to go to a slightly more ambitious level. It has been mentioned in the last paragraph for a long time that, in order to take care of our elderly people and prevent the marginalisation of young people and to help the most low incomes, we also need tax revenue, and that is a fact. This is the case, and just when they are needed, we must not, for example, increase the taxation of a low-income employee or an unemployed or low-income pensioner; on the contrary, we must obtain tax revenue from somewhere else and on a broader tax base and extend the tax base, which is much fairer. This is also largely a philosophical issue when we talk about tax proposals from different parties. After all, for the first time in this proposal the tax treatment of foreign investment funds is regulated, and these changes are minor, and some of the tax base is condensing, but our statement is based on the fact that we are repeating here the idea of what we have in our tax programme, namely that these large foreign investors, for example, should be given a small tax at source, for example, of 5%, which is estimated to have already generated a revenue of EUR 400 million. That is what we are calling for in this statement, and that is what we object to, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u297	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Defence on PuVM 5/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u298	Mr President! And now for the defense. Thus, the law of 1985 exempting Jehovah’s Witnesses from military duty is set aside as an exception. That is good, because military service is a broad concept, and it does not just mean military defence. The matter of the special freedom of Jehovah’s Witnesses has arisen in a court of law where the Helsinki Court of Appeal has released one of Jehovah’s Witnesses from the penalty that had been condemned to him by the lower court. In the view of the Committee on Defence, this procedure jeopardises the functioning of the conscription system. If total refusal does not result in any consequences, then our country’s military service will actually become voluntary. In this way, the general military service will decline and the Finnish Defence Forces will not be able to answer for the training and maintenance of the field army, which is already at a minimum, needed to defend our vast country. In time, it may be possible to return to a sort of Swedish-style rustic mob. A number of options have been considered in the bill, but the simple solution proposed is the repeal of the modern law on the release of Jehovah’s Witnesses, thus treating all convictions in the same way in the law. The attitude of Jehovah’s Witnesses toward civil service has become more permissive since the decree on liberation. Thus, the movement does not deny its members civil service, nor does it result in sanctions within the community. The civil service is performed by between 1500 and 1,800 persons each year and total disqualifications are around 30 to 50, most of which have been punished as a penalty of control, for example by living in their homes but under electronic and technical control. The report of the Committee on Defence states that after the removal of the exemption of Jehovah’s Witnesses, the number of civil servants may rise momentarily by hundreds and this increase must be taken into account in the provision of civil service. In the event of an increase in total refusals, the Criminal Sanctions Agency must also receive additional resources accordingly. The Committee on Defence asked the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for an opinion on the draft law. According to the opinion of the committee, the proposal can be regarded as unproblematic in the sense of Article 6 of the Constitution and the related non-discrimination regulation. The committee also notes that the repeal of the exemption law on Jehovi should be welcomed. The Committee on Defence supports the adoption of the proposal with a few comments and amendments, and I would like to quote from here one final point, which, in the light of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was added to the proposal: ‘The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers that the Thus, the proposed provision of Article 2(3), which would allow those who have applied for a stay to apply for a direct exemption from military service during the peace period, would constitute a different status from that prohibited by the Constitution. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers that, for reasons arising from Article 6 of the Constitution, Article 2(3) of the first draft law and the procedural provisions relating thereto should be deleted from the law in paragraphs 4 and 5. This is a condition for examining a draft law in the order in which the ordinary law is adopted.’ With reference to the foregoing, the Committee on Defence removed these points, and I welcome the completion of this law on the release of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u299	Mr President! It is high time that one of the most flagrant manifestations of inequality in our society is in the history books. The exemption of Jehovah’s Witnesses from the obligation to defend the country is in no way reasonable. If it is impossible to seize a weapon on the basis of conviction, it is already possible to carry out the national defence obligation as a civil service. No one should have privileges in society with regard to rights and obligations, especially not on the basis of belief or religion. In fact, thanks belong to the Helsinki Court of Appeal, which, by appealing to equality, dismissed the charge of refusing civil service. This decision forced us decision-makers to change the status quo. If a national defence obligation could be refused without penalty, it would actually be an alternative. This would ruin our entire military system. The law is needed quickly, because the decision of the Helsinki Court of Appeal means that at the moment the refusal of civil service is going to get away with it. There's no other choice but to change the law in accordance with a draft by the Department of Defense. This is also reflected in the unanimous report by the committee. Mr President! The negative attitude of Jehovah’s Witnesses toward civil service has been based on the fact that civil service is linked to the constitutional obligation to defend the country. The argument put forward by the Committee on Defence regarding the designation of the duty of defence as a civil service obligation is more than just a conceptual spin. I believe that in future the door could also be opened to the general civil service of women. With the removal of the exemption of Jehovah’s Witnesses, the only anti-equality issue remaining in compulsory military service is sex. Women also have a high will to defend the country and the need to participate in the defence of Finland. I would be prepared to extend the invitations to everyone, regardless of gender. Women are a resource that must be taken into account when preparing for crisis situations. I am not suggesting that the whole population should have military or civilian service, but some kind of universal civil service that increases disaster capacity, which would help everyone to understand their place in society, could be a good thing. Mr President! The only thing that raises my doubts about this change of law is the civilian service places where Jehovah’s Witnesses would be located in the future. I personally feel that the exercise of civic duty should in some way benefit society and provide for the continuation of its activities in a crisis situation. Although it is valuable to cultivate one’s own conviction, I do not think that being placed in the duties of one’s own congregation is, in principle, an activity that should be regarded as of paramount importance in the face of a crisis. I therefore have reservations about the possibility of engaging in civil service in congregational duties. This is not just a matter of Jehovah’s Witnesses. In the case of other beliefs and religions, too, consideration must be given to whether only working within its own reference group can be a civil service and hence a national defence obligation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u300	Madam President! This amendment to the law on the release of Jehovah’s Witnesses from military duty is justified and is also well-founded in these statements, for Jehovah’s Witnesses have previously had the freedom to refuse military service and this refusal has meant, on an annual basis, the refusal of approximately 70 to 130 men to military duty, but now, in practice, this case law, which has been introduced in Finland, would create a situation in which, in practice, this possibility of refusal would be open to all military forces if the law were not changed, We have total disqualifications in Finland about 30 to 50 per year. It is possible that this amendment of the law will increase the total number of pronunciations, or, as Mr Ronkainen said there, will also bring us something new to consider and think about there on the civil service side. It is, of course, justified and legitimate that civil service should be separated from military service, but it will certainly remain to be considered and, above all, to be followed up on how this civil service mission will be developed in the future. Of course, we also heard in committee representatives of the religion of Jehovah’s Witnesses who did not see obstacles in the committee for the secular authority to legislate in this direction. After a good debate and interaction, at least all of us in the committee were left with the impression that it is also possible, in the opinion of the representatives of their religion, to regulate this law without violating their rights here. This aspect is, of course, also supported by the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which sees the details of the adoption of this law and also equality between citizens. From the point of view of universal military service and defence of the whole country and of the core force of our defence of the defence, the reserve, this legislation is not only necessary, but I would also like to say that it is necessary to regulate in this context, and I hope that this law will be adopted as quickly as possible and so that the law will enter into force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u301	Madam President! Indeed, this proposal proposes to repeal the law on the discharge of Jehovah’s Witnesses from military service in certain cases and also proposes to amend the law on military service. It is also interesting that Jussi Niinistö, in his capacity as Chairman of the Defence Committee, made this specific point in 2012 and now as Minister of Defence, is also in the process of implementing this change. According to Article 127(1) of the Constitution, every Finnish citizen is under an obligation to participate in or assist in the defence of the fatherland as provided for in the Act, and exemption from participation in military defence is provided for by law — legislation of the kind that this law is, which is now being repealed. Representative Mäkipää has brought up the history of this, and it is also necessary to understand the background to why such a law has been adopted in the past. Indeed, in the 1980s, this was regulated primarily for practical and, I would say, humanitarian reasons, not so much for legal reasons. There had been a long discussion about this population group, which at that time was largely the people who were so-called total disqualifiers, and I believe that it also began to become an international problem for Finland, how to resolve this situation, and at that time — I would say, at that time — a rather logical solution was this liberation law. Now, as has been said, the situation has changed a great deal. It may be said that, as far as formality — equality in the form of government or provisions relating to the duty of defence — is concerned, even at that time, this was in conflict with them formally, and that is why the law was then enacted in the order of constitutional law, so to speak, as a law of exception. After all, today the civil service has been completely separated from the Defence Forces, and, as has been pointed out here in committee, the attitude of Jehovah’s Witnesses toward civil service has become much more positive. As a community, they do not prevent anyone from engaging in civil service, no more in Finland, as we have heard, than in many other countries. This situation, which has been the case at the moment with regard to the Liberation Act, has, of course, discriminated against all other conscripts by imposing one religious conviction — and here it is important to note that it is only one, while other religious convictions can be found — which does not meet the requirements of the Constitution for equality. Mr President! When it comes to civil service, it can be applied for under normal conditions without examination of conviction — this too is significant to note that without examination of conviction — and the application is accepted if it only meets the formal requirements laid down by law. Personally, I have used this passage of the law in my day when I made a decision on how to perform military service. I thought about how I feel about the need for armed action against another person, one’s neighbor. To weigh my own conviction, how I myself interpret my own Christian conviction — and here too it must be noted that there are, of course, different interpretations and respect for all — ended up seeking civilian service precisely because conviction prevents the killing of another person. In other words, I understand that there is a clear need for such legislation, where it is also possible to choose an unarmed alternative. On the other hand, I feel that I can still support the Finnish defence work, even though I personally have made this decision, because there are several ways to defend the country. I also believe that what we parliamentarians are doing here is one way of defending the country: a public task in which to take the attacks publicly but also to promote common patriotism. Personally, I must say that in my time, I wish that unarmed military service would have been said by the Defence Forces if more was marketed. Looking back, I believe, for example, that the unarmed military service for my part could have been the best option, but with the information I had then as a young man, I chose civil service. Unarmed service, so to speak, was not noticed until later. They didn't tell me as much about it in the invitations as they might have to. What is also important is that the committee considers it important in this report to clarify the wider development of the obligation to defend the country and the stronger separation from military duty. As regards, for example, the so-called civil service to which Mr Ronkainen referred, there are, of course, different parties and certainly different representatives who have different views on what it means. Personally, I would see at the very least the possibility of an unarmed service that would specifically support crisis conditions and also the armed work that is being done in crisis situations, because I claim that there are many men in civilian service in themselves, as well as myself, who do not have the problem of armed defence of the country. I do not disapprove of the option that many Finnish men choose. I'm just asking for the right to choose what I've chosen, which is this unarmed service. In view of the annual exemptions granted under the Liberation Act of Jehovah’s Witnesses, there is talk of 70 to 130 persons — a relatively small group but of fundamental importance. As was pointed out in this speech by Mr Mäkipää, this judgment of the Helsinki Court of Appeal on total refusal has placed us in the position we are in at the moment. If this proposal were not produced, it is clear that we would then have to waive the general military duty we are familiar with. The committee, in its own report, fully shares this assessment. Of course, the simplest solution to this problem of equality, which is evident after this judgment, is this repeal of the Liberation Act, and it is very easy in that sense that the interpretation of Jehovah’s Witnesses does not prevent this. Thus, the interpretation of what they themselves are doing — as in my case — remains an individual consideration. Here was what Mr Ronkainen said about the places in which this service could then be performed. Certainly, at least in the early stages, it is easiest for the religious community of Jehovah’s Witnesses to do so in the places where they practice their religion, or in their congregations. As the committee estimates, we must see how these congregations are at all related to what is required in the Civil Service Act. I cannot respond directly to it; I am not an expert in these congregations, but it is quite clear that they must comply with the legislation and the requirements that are imposed on other civilian services. It is good to note that this law allows the number of civilian servicemen to rise temporarily by hundreds of people, and this too needs to be provided with additional resources. Then, of course, considering the situation of Jehovah’s Witnesses who once received a release, it is also important to note that the repeal of this law does not, of course, affect the legal status of persons who have been granted a release before the law of repeal came into force at all. There are also transitional provisions, of course. [The President knocks ] As a representative of the Blues, of course, I would like the invitations to come to everyone at all, to become some kind of civil service model.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u302	I'm a little over it, but let's go this time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u303	Madam Speaker! Good speeches have been made here about the formation of this law in the government and the handling of it here. It is clear from the documents that we have about 20,000 annual military service and some 1,500 to 1800 persons in civil service and about 30 to 50 total disqualifications, and in 17 a total of 30 persons in probation and three total disqualifications in prison during that period. It is good that this strengthened Court of Appeal decision has been dealt with and that the Government's proposal has been well explained, and I attach great importance to the thorough opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to the Committee on Defence, in which this matter is created very well. It has been good for the Committee on Defence to agree with this proposal, and the government's proposal is therefore a good one. The will to defend the country as a whole has expanded in substance, and, fortunately and in good faith, the view of Jehovah’s Witnesses about the content of their religion has expanded in such a way that they strike a little as a hand in one, and there is no major conflict at the moment with the creation of such a law. As former Chairman of the Defence Committee, I would like to express my thanks to the current committee. Yes, this has been handled correctly, and the government minister has been on the right track.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u304	Madam President! First of all, I would like to apologise to the President for what he has just said. I saw a red light on it, but it read that there had been four and a half minutes of talk, so I didn’t realize that I was going over time ago. Of course, it must also be said on this matter itself that, although the committee unanimously sees that Jehovah’s witnesses have a genuine opportunity to consider alternatives to civil service and, of course, to refuse to do so — of course, it will then have its own influence — it will of course be impossible to judge anyone themselves now, when expert assessments and expert views are lacking, how many will then choose civil service and how many will then be able to choose total denial. Then, of course, you go to the Criminal Sanctions Agency, so you might have to increase your resources there too. Of course, as a Member of Parliament, I hope that people will then choose civil service rather than total denial, which is, of course, a violation of the law, which will become a sanction. In other words, I hope that this interpretation of faith, which, in my view and in the view of the committee, is available to Jehovah’s Witnesses, will enable and help them to choose civil service, which I hope will then be developed in the direction I mentioned, that is to say, part of civil service, which, as an unarmed service, would contribute to the crisis situation and which, in my view, should also be supported in some way by armed defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u305	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Defence on PuVM 6/2018 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u306	Mr President! Foreign property transactions have spoken to Finns throughout history. Talks became more common since the break-up of the Soviet Union in the 1990s. Many Russians wanted to buy a property, especially a holiday property, in Finland, mainly in south-eastern Finland. The phenomenon has become stronger and covers the whole of Finland, and the buyers are no longer just Russians. This phenomenon has also been found to be related to negativeness: extreme price fluctuations, tax evasion, money laundering and other forms of crime. In addition, it has been found that real estate has been acquired and a determined effort has been made to acquire properties close to places and areas that are relevant to our national security. It should also be noted that of the 2.7 million properties in Finland, only less than 1% of the direct ownership of foreigners is held. This proposal would therefore repeal the existing law on the redemption of assets for defence purposes and provide for a new law that would allow the State to intervene in property ownership that jeopardises Finland’s national security. The proposal is also linked to the state budget, as the monitoring of real estate transactions in accordance with the proposed laws requires additional resources for the Ministry of Defence, Land Surveying, Defence Forces and Border Guard, Protection Police and Security of Supply. In addition, the redemption of a real estate or the exercise of a right of first sale would entail one-off costs for the State in the years in which the measures would be taken. The explanatory memorandum of the Act points out that the development of individual real estate disposals in the vicinity of strategically important sites must be regarded as a worrying feature of the development, in which an attempt is made to eliminate the actual controlling entity through various intermediary arrangements. There is also concern about cases where it is impossible to reach the property owner or where the use of the acquired property differs from what is considered normal. An example such as the one before is the case of the Helmi of Airisto, which received much attention last autumn. I believe that the bill has a direct link to civil and military intelligence laws. It is quite easy to install automatic communications listening devices in real estate. They may also be fitted with devices to interfere with communications and communications connections, even electromagnetic transmitters that can damage transmission and reception stations, amplifiers or forwarders between telephone and telecommunications stations, but also electricity plants, as well as conversion stations, water plants and heating plants, i.e. harm is not limited to the activities and targets of the authorities, but also to civil infrastructure. National security is a broad concept. Well, at least we're the ones who took the national defense class. Our society's infrastructure and its maintenance technology are increasingly based on electricity and telecommunications. Water and waste water management will not function properly for very long without a national electricity network. Emergency power equipment is only intended as a temporary solution until the national electricity grids can be restored. Mr President! The Committee on Defence considers the legislative model to be a good one, as the choice of means of different laws complements one another. In this context, the Committee stresses the objective already stated in the Government Programme to ensure the implementation of fundamental and human rights in new legislative projects aimed at improving national security. Similarly, the committee is in favour of restricting the right to take advantage of the protection zone of either 500 m or 1000 m, depending on the area, as the greater right to buy is likely to cause considerable damage to the smooth running of real estate and planning. There would be around 500 transactions per year in the PDR. This law was also made in good agreement, and the law would then go out unanimously.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u307	Mr President! The government's proposal to take national security into account in foreign land transactions becomes necessary. We've been talking about this for a long time. It is regrettable that, often, something bad must happen first in order to awaken the majority of decision-makers and make progress in decision-making. It is, of course, a good thing that we are now taking this up. This bill is not complete either, but the main thing is that some kind of control comes and we will have clear steps to take in dealing with real estate transactions around strategic areas. In the implementation of national security, it is particularly important that the municipalities and the state, i.e. in practice the Defence Forces, work together. The Defence Forces should identify important strategic areas so that municipalities do not even start planning them. The aim must be that foreign land stores in Finland always serve the interests of Finns first and foremost. Mr President! However, there is concern about the trades that have already taken place. Since the authorisation procedure based on citizenship, which was abolished in 2000, there has also been a large number of transactions close to strategic areas. However, there is always a problem with dealing with property protection retrospectively. It is interesting to see how the change in law will affect in practice and whether the defence and/or expropriation stops will have to be tested in the future. The committee therefore proposes that the functioning of the new regulation as a whole should be assessed for two years and that the Ministry of Defence should report to the Committee on Defence by the end of 2021.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u308	Madam President! Yes, it must now be said of Minister of Defence Jussi Niinistö that there has been some foresight in him when, in addition to the repeal of the liberation law of Jehovah’s Witnesses, which we have just discussed, he has also acted in the front. When he was chairman of the Defence Committee, in 2014, he presented precisely what we are dealing with here as a government proposal. The national defence courses, which, I must say, have had a valuable history in Finland as the creator and strengthening of this concept of overall security, were also mentioned. There too, I am sure, for each of us — even myself, when I visited it in the spring — the situation where Finland is in this regard that there is a pressing need for this legislation in relation to areas of strategic importance, in particular. But when this issue has also been discussed in the spring of 2014, when this was also a bill by Mr Kymäläinen, there has also been quite a lot of accusations of a kind of intimidation, or when it comes to our eastern neighbour, even Russian hatred, and it has not been possible to deal with this from the point of view of the matter without some sort of strain on history. Fortunately, many Members of Parliament have raised this issue, including Jussi Niinistö. After all, the problem arose in the late 1990s. That's when the secretary of the environment was Satu Hassi from the Greens. He presented the law repealing the law on the supervision of the acquisition of property by non-residents and foreign entities at the beginning of 2000. This removed what Mr Ronkainen referred to here, namely the law in force since 1939 — that of very long-term legislation — that land ownership included a very comprehensive authorisation procedure based on citizenship. Currently several hundred real estate transactions are carried out annually, between 500 and 700, where a foreigner is a buyer. Of course, it must be said that most are very ordinary shops, nothing more than that, but the problem is not only there, at least not only where they are sold, but also where those buildings, buildings, countries are sold, which is precisely these strategic areas where reference can then be made to this public debate in relation to this case of Airisto Helm. In addition to the fact that this legislation is now being brought to Parliament and will certainly go forward with very strong support, it is also appropriate then for the relevant authorities to clarify the transactions that thousands of people have already done with the legislation adopted this year. I believe that this will certainly be the case with the responsible safety authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u309	Mr President! I, too, was excited to take the floor after what I had just said. Indeed, this government proposal is good, and there are good steps in the right direction. I would also like to thank Mr Kymäläinen, who has already taken this initiative in the last term, very long-term through the citizens' initiative, and, as we know, sometimes in a high mood, he has moved this forward. I think it is important that we have also raised these issues and we are considering, in particular, the ownership of these strategically important regions and their situation and the role that our state plays in these matters in terms of overall and internal security. So I would like to thank you again for this. There are right steps here, and with good and long-term work one step at a time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u310	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 35/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u311	Mr President! The so-called fund funds are internationally important investors and their share in the international fundraising of private equity funds has increased strongly. The purpose of the Government's proposal is now to bring the investments made through these funds into line with the corresponding direct investments for tax purposes. These changes can improve the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. The committee proposes a government proposal for adoption without amendment, and the committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u312	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 20/2018 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u313	Madam President! Society as a whole estimates the amount of punishment resulting from it in the setting of a criminal title, and this amount of punishment is very sensitive to people, citizens, when crimes of the same type occur in many cases, in the same degree of grossness or in the same manner of action. In most cases, this so-called simple conclusion is that the penalty should be increased if there are more than one in a row. Even in recent times, we are well aware of this mechanism. The general philosophy of justice, however, does not accept such a philosophy that it is only by tougher penalties that crime can be reduced, let alone completely eliminated, but by using different means of society. However, the exception is that, in some cases, there is such a clear, flagrant flaw in the level of punishment or in the monitoring system in general that it is absolutely necessary to address it. This law is about the fact that when the goal of the gradual release of prisoners is to create a so-called release path for a released prisoner, followed by a future life without crime, then if you have been in prison and then for some time without committing crimes, you will be able to enter a different, faster, conditional freedom next time. However, when examining the system, it should be assessed whether the current three-year period between the previous release and the new offence leading to unconditional imprisonment should be regarded as fair and proportionate. The documents show that three years have been kept short, according to this proposal, for example, in cases where a person commits a serious crime and is released after half of his sentence has been served. In other words, the punishment for such an ongoing crime is clearly being hardened and is certainly right in these cases. We have also had many cases in public, which people quite rightly deplore, that the perpetrator of a serious crime will be freed and then commit a new serious crime within three years and will then be released more quickly. Therefore, that deadline will be added to five years so that, in the longer term, we can see if he is really fit for this society, without committing crimes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u314	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u315	Mr President! In the legislative initiative I have taken, it is proposed to amend the Student and Student Care Act and the Basic Education Act in such a way that there is a need for much more precise provision for community education. The Student and Student Care Act entered into force on 1 August 2014 and has therefore been in force for approximately two and a half years. The main objective of the Act was to shift the focus to community-based, preventive and early-supported education and to reduce the need for corrective measures. The National Education Evaluation Centre Karvi evaluates this law and the evaluation results that the main objectives have not been achieved: There is a wide variation in the availability of psychologist and curator services by school and by pupil toxicity. There is uncertainty and lack of interpretation as regards the recording practices and the interpretation of the law. There is a great deal of confusion and uncertainty about interpretation in schools and schools about what to do, when to do, how to apply this law. I myself have said so when I worked as a principal at school for a few years. Contacts with authorities and stakeholders have become abundant, and so it can be thought that the evaluation results from Karv and contacts with the authorities clearly highlight the need for reform of the Student and Study Care Act. It contains many points that should be corrected or improved, including the clarification of community education. For example, individual study care is regulated very carefully by law, whereas this community education is regulated at a very general level. When the law does not provide sufficient detail about community education, it is easy for the guidance of the Finnish National Board of Education to guide activities for which there is no norm. Student care according to the curriculum, Section 6, should be deleted because there is no legal definition of what the curriculum study care is, and the current registration is likely to give rise to mere ambiguities. It cannot be left to everyone who organises the teaching to carry out and interpret the article in the manner and with the precision he wants. The study care group must be able to share more than one school. We still have some 380 schools in Finland with up to 50 pupils, and it would be much more practical and sensible for a group of students to be set up in small schools and schools and not for every one of them to have their own. There is a lot of confusion about the composition of the multi-disciplinary expert group. Similarly, the duplication of multi-professional cooperation is needed. The right of teaching staff to receive the information necessary for teaching needs to be clarified in order for this information to actually pass. The extension of the right to supervision should be extended to the Regional State Administrative Agency so that it has the possibility of self-initiative intervention to cover the entire activity under the Student Care Act. In practice, there has also been a major problem in schools that there is no distinction between what is a matter of study care and what is a part of the support for learning and schooling under the umbrella of the Basic Education Act. Student care is voluntary, support for learning and schooling is compulsory — it does not require the consent of a pupil or guardian and is therefore related to pedagogy. This difference is not clear enough, which is part of education care, which is one of the pedagogical aspects. Mr President! This law has caused much confusion in the field, and in order for the students to receive the help that this law had in mind, it is necessary either to change, clarify this, or to repeal the entire Student and Study Care Act and to make the necessary changes to the Basic Education Act.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u316	A 16th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u317	Madam President! In this initiative, I am proposing to add the right to outdoor services to the Act on Elderly Services, and for every person, the care plan would assess how this right to outdoors would be implemented. This initiative is intended to strengthen the fundamental rights of the elderly. I would first like to thank all those who have signed the initiative. Some 50 Members of Parliament signed the initiative, and this has come to this point as a result of many months of work. This initiative is important to me in the sense that, in my time, I have also made a citizens' initiative before coming to Parliament. The subject is also topical in many ways, since we have had a lot of discussion here about the care of the elderly at the moment. The initiative wants to strengthen fundamental rights, and I see that the care of our elderly people is in a situation where these people also need stronger protection in order to implement certain fundamental rights. We have nearly 50,000 people in 24-hour care at the moment, and a significant proportion of them are unable to pursue their own interests as a result of advanced memory sickness, loneliness or exclusion. This is why legislative action is also needed to improve the opportunities for outdoor activities. According to the ASLA study by THL, half of the elderly people in the care of the elderly feel that they are not able to get out enough, and only a few of the relatives of the elderly feel that their loved ones are able to get out. So this is an extremely large restriction of fundamental rights. I strongly believe that people in 24-hour care need deserve the right to daily outdoor activities. I don't want to contradict you in any way, but that's the kind of thing that's protected by law, for example, by prisoners. Outdoor activities are a fundamental human right and should be carried out for everyone throughout Finland, and this entry in the legislation would therefore be justified. However, it is not just a question of fundamental rights; it is a matter that has major health effects on the mind, physical health and cognitive performance, and outdoor activities are a strong part of human well-being and health. At this point I forgot to say that it is certainly not a matter of forced exercise, but of the right to walk, that every person has the opportunity to do so if he so wishes. The long-term objective of our old-age policy is that people should be able to live as long as possible in their own homes as well as in their own homes. For some home care customers, too, the opportunities for outdoor activities may be very limited or non-existent due to lack of functional capacity, and in order to ensure that the right of home care customers to outdoor activities can also be realised, the possibility of outdoor activities should be assessed in the assessment of the need for services. Perhaps at the first stage it was thought that this would apply to round-the-clock care, but in the preparation of this initiative it was concluded that, when we received strong records of the need for services for the assessment of a person, it would also cover the people in home care more strongly, because we know that at the moment people who are in home care used to be in 24-hour care, i.e. we are much worse off and the problems have been more and more followed by home care. The inclusion of the right to free movement in the law does not necessarily entail additional costs for municipalities or future regions, but through the reorganisation of work, various space solutions and closer cooperation with various organisations it would be possible to implement this. Of course, once we have had this staffing debate, we must have sufficient staff to enable this to be done, but there are many other ways in which we can contribute to this. Perhaps the central point is that this would strengthen people's sovereignty and, at the same time, support their well-being. This is also widely supported by patients' organisations and other NGOs in Finland, and this has actually been prepared in cooperation with the Age Institute. I have put together certain health effects and also economic aspects to make it easier for people to say that there is no money and there is no research and so on — we have a lot of information to take this matter forward. First of all, health effects: Studies show that the welfare and health benefits of outdoor activities are emphasised by people who have difficulties in their ability to function and who experience loneliness. The immune response is sustained and strengthened by externalisation. The risk of infectious and non-infectious diseases is reduced — such as memory disorders, cardiovascular diseases, lung diseases, depression and so on. Maintenance and enhancement of functional capacity — physical, psychological, cognitive and social capacity. Above all, the sense of life and the well-being of the mind. The severity of the fall will be reduced. Life expectancy is getting longer. The opportunities for independent action are improving, and so on. From an economic point of view, I have put together a few points, because it is often said that we cannot afford this. However, we have a number of computational examples: First of all, better sleep rates and quality without medicines and their side effects, for example without dizziness; hence fewer falls and hence fewer hip fractures per year. For example, if we could reduce the hip fracture rate by 3 percent, as we calculate that there are now more than 6,000 cut hip fractures per year and the average cost of the hip fracture during the first year of treatment is more than 30000 euros if institutionalized, then 3 percent less hip fractures would mean nearly 180 lower hip fractures per year, i.e. more than 5 million savings. President, was this seven minutes? [President PaulaRisk : 10 minutes for presentation, please. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u318	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u319	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u320	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Nurminen, for writing this bill. The elderly deserve access to the outdoors and enjoy nature. Staying in nature will do us all a whole lot of good, whether we are young, old, short or slow. The creation of a good relationship with nature, and especially with the elderly, will increase both mental and physical well-being, and perhaps the most important thing is the close nature that provides easy nature excursions and moments for everyday life. In other words, just as we heard in the presentation of the bill, outdoor activities are part of good old age. I remember well when I was a young girl as a hospital assistant at the Kovevolä rehabilitation hospital in Mikkeli and I used to walk with the veterans there — either by pushing them in a wheelchair or by walking along with a walker or by hand - nailing. At the same time, I learned many memorable stories about war and how to survive it. In addition: At the time, in the good old days, it was customary to bring out all the people in the backyard on summer nights. Some came in wheelchairs, and even though the beds were brought to enjoy fresh air. I often brought my own horse and dog to iron them, and these were very important moments for both me and the veterans. This was so - called garden therapy, which has been shown to benefit people living in nursing homes, especially elderly people with memory problems. Staying in the garden has been shown to improve the quality and cognitive abilities of the elderly and to reduce nervousness. Mr President! For more than 75-year-olds, outdoor activities are reduced due to reduced functional capacity, although the need for outdoor activity is maintained. Nature, natural experiences, animals, plants and travel in the forest or other natural environments reduce stress and anxiety and improve the ability to concentrate and coordinate. Regular outdoor activities refresh and relax the mind, develop balance and muscle strength, improve the security of movement, provide opportunities for handling your own business and meeting friends. However, many elderly people cannot get out because of problems of mobility, fear of falling or loneliness. I definitely believe that there is a need for more care staff in care homes and home care for the elderly so that nurses can meet this basic human need. Moving outside clearly increases the ability, quality of life and self-determination of the elderly. Organic landscapes also have a pain relief effect because they reduce stress and anxiety by distracting attention from pain. Mobility in nature is therefore also cost-effective as it reduces the use of painkillers and the cost of treatment. Today, there are far too few workers in the care of the elderly, and the elderly do not get out of their homes or nursing homes, and as a result the ability of the elderly to function is impaired. Today was just the hearing of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health in which the committee was briefed by Mr Valvira, Mr Avi, the Ministry, the police and trade unions on a report on the alarmingly bad situation in the care of the elderly. The problems in the care of the elderly are clearly due to insufficient staffing, which is directly reflected in the well-being of the customers. The background is the financial interest of companies. The shifts have been designed in some places, even so grossly that the morning shift ends at 2 p.m. and the evening shift starts at 2.30 p.m.So the parents are left in the institutions alone between the shifts. Deputies are hired for days, not eight hours, when a permanent worker does part of the day on his own. Weekend shifts are planned for everyone's short days. In addition to nursing, nurses and local nurses include cleaning, cooking, mopping floors and laundry, which means that people are not constantly affected by their working hours. This was so creepy to hear that this must soon be corrected and written into the law as a binding nurse measure for seven nurses per 10 old people and also for those who carry out support work, that is to say cleaning and food and laundry. In our current care for the elderly, nurses simply do not have time to go out with the elderly. Mr President! Fresh air and movement in our natural environment are the cornerstones of a good life. Human rights include free movement and outdoor activities. At present, however, a large proportion of Finns, the elderly, do not have the opportunity to exercise this fundamental right. I am therefore very much in favour of this addition proposed by Mr Nurminen that the provision of services should ensure that an elderly person is able to have sufficient day-to-day outdoor activities and to move outside the home or care centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u321	Mr President! I warmly support Mr Nurminen's initiative, and in fact the initiative is very timely in many respects. The current situation is that the Minister has explained that a new work has been started on the old-age services law and on the welfare of the elderly in general, aimed at reforming the law to meet the needs of the elderly. This, if anything, is one thing that should be taken into account in this overall work, that is, how older people get the opportunity to go out and exercise both in home care and, of course, later in the units of 24-hour care. In fact, some years ago we have had very encouraging results that when older people improve their muscle condition, we also get more ability to function and, for example, to continue living at home longer. Just as the delegates have already said, among other things, falls are reduced as muscle power improves, and so is the balance. So it's no longer a laughing matter when we're pushing or making it possible for the elderly to practice gyms as well. Some years ago it even seemed a little strange, and we were used to gym training being more of a exercise hobby for young people, but good care units are now also investing in improving the muscle condition of the elderly. We know that strong thigh muscles, for example, are also a good health promoter for older people. The fact that the muscle condition is well even has a connection to heart health. Therefore, if we are looking for savings and the well-being of the elderly and the elderly, we should make an explicit preventive contribution to physical activity and outdoor activities. Well, as Mr Taavitsainen said earlier, this is also a topical issue today, because today the Committee on Social Affairs and Health received a large number of experts to hear about the current situation in the care of the elderly, and what we heard in the committee was shocking. In fact, I have known that the old people are taking care of the situation and the various mishaps that are taking place there, but in today's hearing I was still shocked by a lot of things. For example, what Mr Taavitsainen pointed out that we have had in the services, in several units and in the service provider's activities, was a regular division of care shifts so that even if the person hired as a substitute will take a shorter shift than originally thought and listed as the length of the nurse's shift, for example, regular shifts on weekends have been reduced to a minimum. In the past, the minimum has meant for me that there will be no duplication of working time. In other words, when the morning shift changes to the evening shift or the night shift, it is usually necessary to change between carers a few words about the condition of the customers, what has happened during the shift, what treatments need to be taken into account, what medicines need to be taken into account, and perhaps a family member has still brought a message, and if the shifts are written in such a way that the second shift begins at the same time as the other one ends, then such a shift has not been possible or has actually fallen under the responsibility of the carers themselves so that they have come a little earlier or left a little late. But now the new phenomenon is that before the second shift starts, the previous shift ends — and really these people are left in that unit without any employees. Anything can happen in a half-hour, an hour, anything. This is so irresponsible that a service that does so should not allow one more moment to continue or a service provider that does so. The systematic nature of the work is even demonstrated by the fact that the immediate managers who are making these work schedules have not been allowed to put them into practice, but that all work schedules are adopted at the upper level of the regional management, where further tests have been carried out. This message came from our supervisory authority, so what I am saying here is entirely true, not hearsay, not from someone by chance, but from the supervising authority. The message was also that all the announcements, such as those received by the Avs, have been true without exception. So there has been no unnecessary announcement. This is a very worrying message. The message also came from the fact that our elderly are malnourished when nursing staff do not have time to help them eat, for example, or that food has also been reduced so that the elderly even suffer from malnutrition. In this context, of course, this exercise seems to me to be how on earth we will still get this important palette of physical activity here if we are in such a bad state on these basic issues. It is therefore important that urgent action is actually taken here, and I hope that this good initiative by Mr Nurminen will be taken into account as part of that package.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u322	Mr President! I was also listening to the police, Valvira and others, and it must be said that it was agreed there that the information of the meeting was openly available, that it was not an official meeting. I have to say that I am still very upset about the information we are monitoring, the authorities and the police and others, on the situation of the elderly at the moment. In that sense, these abuses of duty, malnutrition and mistreatment are extremely worrying, and if the authorities make announcements and exhortations about these few companies, they will be faced with an army of lawyers with whom they are having discussions. In that context, I absolutely believe that these mistreatments, the abuse of all these phenomena of profit-making, must be eradicated first and foremost and, once they are in order, we can begin to strengthen these fundamental rights. I understand that in this context, when the situation is so alarming in certain respects, this is perhaps impossible to achieve. However, I would like to believe that in the future, when these are corrected — and they must be corrected — this will be a long-term objective by which we will strengthen people's sovereignty when we strengthen the right to escape. In this role, I would also like to thank the organisations which, at the moment, largely enable many elderly people to get out, because there are simply no staff and not everyone has family and many do not have a chance. I believe and hope that this will be brought forward in the future. This has a lot of positive effects. It may be obvious to us that we are going out of here, but for so many it is not self-evident.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u323	Mr President! I would also like to say that we, as it were, are not the only people on the outside who want this outdoor activity at all, but the elderly themselves want it out and out. Very many of their representative organisations, i.e. various pensioner organisations, patient organisations, social welfare and health organisations, have raised this need, just as Mrs Nurminen has said here. They have pointed out that when confined to the interior, without the possibility of outdoors safely and with support, there is no valuable old age. How we can provide our elderly with valuable old age will certainly leave this house and legislation. It must be strict, and violations of the law must become severe sanctions and penalties. Yes, I was very surprised when today we heard the experts and the supervisory authority, what a difference we have between health care and social care. They reported that in health - care activities when they make a remark about a defect, if it is not in order, there is usually a very proper answer that says that they will correct this disorder immediately. But now, here on the social welfare side, where all our care units for the elderly belong, there is no respect at all for the supervisory authority, but we are beginning to rebuff and deny the views or remarks of the supervisory authority. It's where they put the firm's lawyers to write the answers that knock everything out so that the supervisory authority is wrong. What's going to work on these? How can they even be made to obey and comply with the laws laid down in this Chamber? In other words, when I hope that the future parliament will also provide for a passage made by representative Nurminen in the Act on Elderly Services, that supervision and compliance with the laws must be sanctioned in such a way that, if not, proper penalties will be imposed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u324	Mr President! It was not yet said that we know that for three days now bed rest and bed care, and all the days on top of it, significantly weakens human walking ability, but also begins to weaken muscle condition. Regrettably, when an elderly person needs special care because of an illness, many of them will be laid down until the condition and ability to walk begins to deteriorate, and then when they return to the home or care unit, even though we are talking about a rehabilitating job, there is not really as much time as it takes to restore the ability to walk in order to increase and strengthen the muscle condition. You know, I've been thinking a lot about this rehabilitating job: It is not just a matter of making sure in the morning that an elderly person, with his own muscle, lifts himself out of bed and gets up from bed. It is that too, but a large part of it should also be additional and longer-term rehabilitation. One good rehabilitation is, for example, to take a walk, walk a little bit, take along the wheelchair where you can rest, and then, if necessary, you can continue the rest of the way with it if your own strength is no longer sufficient. But this all takes time. It takes time from the staff, and at present it is also largely with the support of non-medical staff. I find it a little sad that we have trained care professionals who do a lot of things, for example, such as laundry; they have time for that, but not for this vital activity, exercise, community, as it were for leisure, where it would be good to exchange thoughts with this elderly person, to hear his own thoughts and thoughts, such as loneliness, health, perhaps even the fears of illness and others. This should be part of that good care, care and rehabilitation, but unfortunately we still have work to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u325	The 17th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u326	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! This bill prohibits the production of economic profits in the early childhood education of children produced by individuals and in early childhood education in general. It is clear to us Finns that schools cannot make a profit. You don't make money at the kids' expense. The Basic Education Act, the High School Law, the Law on Vocational Education and the Law on Liberal Education and Education, has explicitly stated that ‘educationis not an education for economic gain’,but for the smallest children under the age of seven, in their early education, it is possible to profit. High-quality, well-designed and implemented early childhood education supports the individual development, learning and well-being of the child. High-quality early childhood education consists of a whole of education, education and care, in which case the child learns and develops well. Quality early childhood education supports the child’s learning capacity for comprehensive school. Early childhood education is the right of each child and an important part of the children’s school path. Therefore, the ban on profit must also be extended to early childhood education. Mr President! Our most important task for the future of Finland is to care for, raise and train children of the highest quality. Day-care centres run by private, profit-oriented companies are not always able to provide quality care for children. At worst, it is difficult for staff to make sure that children have enough food and dry diapers. The problems arise from the fact that companies do not employ enough staff. The staff shortage is a systematic activity aimed at minimising the company’s expenditure and maximising its profits. This is the result of the fact that the law allows the pursuit of economic gain. A market for early childhood education has been created in Finland, which operates on a commercial basis. The development is dangerous and threatens the social integrity of Finland. Legislation that protects children's rights poorly with a rapidly expanding market for early childhood education has created a bad equation. Day-care centres run by private, profit-oriented companies are vulnerable to terminate the child’s care agreement if the child needs special support or if the child’s food allergy requires special special arrangements. The company does not want any extra costs in its profit-making efforts. This is not in the best interests of the child. This is discrimination and inequality. In order to remedy the current situation, I propose in this legislative initiative that paragraph 5 of Article 43(2) of the Act on Early Childhood Education should be added: ‘The provider of the service should provide early education for the purpose of economic gain’. Mr President! Although the quality of care does not correspond to the quality definitions of early childhood education, a large proportion of private day care centres charge families an extra fee over the service voucher granted by the municipality — even if the quality of care does not meet the requirements of early childhood education. Just today I read the news that a private Touhula day care centre inherits more than 400 euros per year from parents and the parents and the City of Kuopio do not know why. The news said there was a need to investigate. Yeah, me too. The City official stated that there was no difference in Touhula’s activities which would indicate the need for an additional levy. The chairman of Esperi Care’s senior management company is also the chairman of the Touhula day care company. The policies are consistent and clearly directed by the management. The Regional State Administrative Agency of South-West Finland has just made a comment to Touhula on the lack of compliance with the rules on the dimensioning of customer positions and the safety and health of operations. These problems are very serious and the Regional State Administrative Agency has quite rightly addressed them. In these profit-oriented private day-care centres, staff have fewer salaries, cookers and cleaners than on the public side, and their duties are amassed by kindergarten teachers and nannies. This time is out of attendance with the children. I think that all of these sounds exactly the same as what we were discussing just now in relation to care for the elderly. A study by the Ministry of Education and Culture in 2017 has evaluated private early childhood education services. Companies making profits save on staff costs, for example, by transferring kitchen and cleaning tasks to kindergarten teachers and nannies and other care and training staff. Large international day-care centres owned by venture capital investors have taken over the market and generate large profits. Profits come from our tax money because municipalities practically pay out private early childhood education in full by means of vouchers and private care, i.e. tax money makes financial profits, millions of dollars. In the old days, private day care centres were small, often run by non-profit associations. Fortunately, there are still some of them, but today Finland is in the middle of a day-care centre business, and municipal control does not work, even though municipalities have responsibility for supervising private day-care centres. The statutory function of municipalities is to ensure that the operating environment and early childhood education at private early childhood education establishments meet the requirements and law for early childhood education. The Helsinki Sanomat survey in January 2017 asked for experiences in day care and in particular observations on resource shortages. Of the more than 500 respondents, the most critical were early childhood education professionals. They said there's been an increase in the rush, and they've been going over the place for a long time. As a result of the savings, there has been an increase in anxiety, conflict and crying. There's not enough time for the kids. There is noise, fatigue and anxiety. Mr President! It is a basic service for small children, and this current situation is unsustainable. The current early childhood education law allows companies to gain aggressively, with a wide range of consequences that reduce children’s well-being. That is why the law must be corrected and the pursuit of economic gain must be banned. We have to go back in time until January 1973. That was the first time a law was passed on child day care. Article 23 states that the acquisition of the State's share in day care is subject to the condition that the day-care centre is not maintained for financial gain. At that time the Prime Minister was Kalevi Sorsa of the SDP.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u327	Mr President! About a year ago, when I was thinking about a daycare centre for my child, I woke up to the fact that marketing and image advertising have quite a place in today’s day care world. There was a sports day care centre, a music - oriented day care centre, a language - shower day care centre, but then when I got to know a little more about what was behind these images and marketing, I woke up to the fact that a very ordinary day care unit, which did not advertise itself as a special day care centre of any kind, had, for example, a large gym in which children of the day care centre were able to move and develop their skills daily, but a day care centre that advertised itself as a sports day care centre did not have the same facilities. I was actually wondering how much we have already gone through the daycare world through images, advertising and marketing to make decisions and decisions. On that occasion I mentioned earlier, we also heard a message about day-care centres, and, yes, one of the concerns was that when, for example, personnel measurements had been left to talk to the service provider, more had been that they could not make improvements, for example in terms of staff or quality, unless profit was first produced. I understand that, as I do in general, but I do find it worrying if the basic quality does not reflect our perceptions of good early childhood education. Then there is something essential that is wrong if, as it were, you have to go and claim profits by weakening the basic quality. Perhaps this is why it is important that we consider why, for example, primary education has been banned and what is the difference between early childhood education and early childhood education. I'm sure there's no difference. Just as Mr Taavitsainen said, the staff is the largest expense and will be saved first — staff who are inexperienced and paid lower wages than in the sector in general — and therefore there will be frequent changes in staff, and the fact that the staff change frequently will inevitably also affect children and the well-being of children. And first and foremost, all of this should be about children and the welfare of children.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u328	Madam President! Firstly, I warmly support this initiative by Mr Taavitsainen to ban the pursuit of economic gain in early childhood education. This is also an important value debate in itself, because today more and more everything is trading and we are on the market and this kind of market logic is rampant. We have also talked a lot about these problems today, for example with regard to care for the elderly, and I think it is important that we also bring this early childhood education to the debate now and consider those solutions. This is a very important and good solution — especially in the future, because this sector is growing, and it is already a proactive way of tackling these. Perhaps the central point is, in my view, that privatisation threatens the quality of early childhood education. Mr Taavitsainen took the example of this municipality in Poland and, of course, it can at its worst lead to slightly similar decisions by similar municipalities, and they must of course be prevented. At present, however, only about 20% of early childhood education is in private hands, i.e. a relatively small part, but yet these markets are already highly concentrated and, as a result, profit prospects are quite good. I found at least a few expert statements on this. In other words, the very same elements as the discussion on care for the elderly has been on the table. Mr Kurttila, the Ombudsman for Children, has also commented on this. In short, I read his comments too, and he specifically stresses the growing inequality of children and the need for every child to have the right to quality early childhood education. Unfortunately, even in my opinion, the government's decision to limit the right to full-time early childhood education applies especially to these families where the mother is at home, and for example, even though families with immigrant backgrounds, because the education and labour market status of many mothers are weak and language skills are limited and thus the continuing issue of such generations may also be inherited and made difficult. Above all, one should wonder why the pursuit of economic gain has been made possible in early childhood education services. However, we also have a few different entries from the law, which has made this possible. And is this right? Entrepreneurs act as the law allows. They do not do wrong, but as a state Finland does not act wisely with regard to the integrity of the nation and the rights of children. Here are some brief comments on this important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u329	Mr President! Thank you for your contributions and thank you to all those who have signed the bill. I would like to remind us of what Nobel Prize winner Bengt Holmström said when he visited Parliament to talk to us in March 2017. He noted that private sector teachings were not suitable for the public sector. In other words, private sector doctrines are not suitable for the public sector," said the Nobel Prize winner in this celebration lecture to us MPs. He stressed in particular the importance and importance of education, and he also reminded us that the public sector in Finland is functioning well. We in this Parliament should therefore have no obstacle to changing the direction of early childhood education back to its roots, i.e. to a basic public service, to a basic service produced by the public, not for profit. These flaws and missteps, which have now taken place in early childhood education, are our task here in Parliament to correct and develop the quality of early childhood education and thus restore the trust of parents and children in this important service. — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u330	The 18th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u331	Madam President! This bill introduces a new Article 19a of the Hunting Act in Chapter 2. The new Article 19a provides that, without prejudice to other provisions of the law, it would be possible to catch and kill a game animal in an emergency shelter or forced state where a game animal attacks a human or domestic animal or comes near people or domestic animals and immediately threatens the safety of humans or domestic animals. When assessing the immediate threat and danger, account would be taken of the coercive nature of the situation and other circumstances in the situation. Mr President! This amendment would ensure that, when large predators, such as wolverine, lynx or wolf, come in threateningly to the courtyards and other neighborhoods of human dwellings, the citizen would clearly have the right to defend himself, his family and his domestic animals, such as a farm animal in the enclosure or a dog in the yard. Similarly, the proposed legislative amendment would ensure that during the sudden attack on a hunting dog by another game animal, such as an elk, the hunter would be allowed to defend his own domestic animal without undue concern about the possible consequences. In accordance with the Hunting Act, the catching declaration and the notification to the police or to the Border Guard should be notified of the hunting and killing of a game animal under this new provision. The competent authorities would always examine the request made in an overriding situation and whether the circumstances were emergency and forced. If it is found that the felling of a game animal took place under conditions which do not correspond to the new Article 19a This will result in normal criminal sanctions. Mr President! After all, we already have general provisions in the Criminal Code, Chapter 4 of the Criminal Code, on situations of emergency protection and forced detention, which, in principle, allow the killing of a large beast or other game animal in a situation where there is imminent danger. On this basis, there are some cases where a domestic animal or hunting dog has been attacked and then such a wolf or other beast has been shot, pre-trial examinations have been decided and decisions not to prosecute have been taken on the basis of these general penal law provisions, but, nevertheless, when it comes to the general rule of forced state, the meaning of the provisions is unclear and the criteria for the discharge criteria are loose. In any case, when operating with these general mandatory areas of criminal law, the overall assessment is always made at a time, and one might say that the hunter will always be a bit like a loose moose when it comes to assessing whether the wolf really came at that deer dog or not, and whether it was really such a situation that the wolf or other beast would soon have torn those sheep or cattle in the field. The evaluation is usually carried out by the prosecutor and, as is well known, the suspected hunting offence will in practice have very serious consequences for the holder of the licence. If you engage in hunting, if you live in rural areas, where there is a large part of it that you move around the forest and ask for game, it is a very heavy penalty if you lose them for your hobby and, in part, for the means of livelihood and lifestyle, that is, weapons. I see, therefore, that the legal protection of hunters and other people living in rural areas requires clarification of the legislation. Of course, even after adopting this initiative, these general places of forced and emergency detention in criminal law would also apply if necessary. President! The background to this initiative is, in particular, the explosion of the wolf population throughout Finland in recent years. There are new sightings all the time. Since 2005, Finland has had a management plan for the wolf population, and just according to this management plan, the stock has started to rise. And there are strong doubts that these numbers of wolves in Finland are not quite right, but even larger numbers are spoken of than official estimates are. Most worrying of all is the so-called garden wolf phenomenon, where predators move around human settlements without fear. Such patios have behaved aggressively toward people, including growling and showing their teeth. These yard wolves have also killed several productive animals and dogs. In Ostrobothnia, especially in the last couple of years, this phenomenon has intensified, and furskins in particular have suffered severe damage when these fur animals have been killed there. Mr President! This increase in the number of wolves threatens to undermine the lawfulness and confidence of people living in rural areas throughout society. It is an intolerable situation that people are forced to carry their children to school with fear of wolves, and it is also unreasonable that it is not certain that if a beast is coming toward its own animal or is going around in the yard where the children are moving, whether such a disturbed animal can stop or not. This is unreasonable and this clarification of the law would be necessary. I would like to point out that the Swedish Hunting Act contains such a provision, Article 28 of the Jaktförordningen, which allows this particular predator to be shot, when it threatens an animal or a person. Mr President! We are living in the last few weeks of the parliamentary term, and during that autumn and winter I tried to persuade more than a hundred Members of Parliament to sign this — unfortunately this project did not succeed, and 62 signatures I received here — and knowing that there are a few weeks left, and knowing the so-called gentlemen's rules in this Parliament, it is likely that this initiative will unfortunately lapse. However, I hope that the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry will deal with this initiative seriously and discuss with the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry whether any preparatory measures could be launched here. After all, this is not a very significant change, and when we look for an example in Sweden, it will certainly be in balance with our European Union obligations as well. In any case, I hope that the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry will look into this bill and the upcoming government and the parliament to be elected in April will at the latest provide for such a necessary change to the Finnish hunting law.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u332	Madam President! Not only Ostrobothnia, but Satakunta and Varsinais-Suomi warmly agree with Mr Kurvisen's initiative. The fact is that there too, in our region, the deer stock and the other big game of this kind have so increased that we have naturally followed these herds and the wolf has become very common there, as herds. As the population is quite dense, this unfortunate outdoor wolf phenomenon is rapidly increasing and naturally causes terror and a wide range of problems in the children's schoolway, especially in families with children. I think it is quite right, as Mr Kurvinen says, to refine the general provision of the law on the protection of the environment and on forced displacement in the hunting law. In accordance with general law, at a time when such a wolf or other predator encounters should be quickly assessed, what is the objective value of the shooting and the threatening danger, and compare them with whether I am right now, followed by a long-term assessment by the police and others, in which you are deprived of hunting rights, weapons and so on. Yes, this procedure must be more straightforward and also in line with what has been done in Sweden, a civilized country. It doesn't require, and it's not allowed to require... When the life of a person or a domestic animal — a herd or a beloved dog or other animal — is in danger of being threatened by a wild animal of nature, and you find yourself in that situation, you must have the legal right to defend these values.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u333	Madam President! I would like to thank my fellow Member, Mr Juhani, for his excellent contribution to the debate on this bill. It has been pleasant to work with representative Juhantalo during this parliamentary term, and now that he has announced that he is no longer available to hundreds of people, we other lawyers must try to continue these good traditions. President-in-Office of the Council. - (DE) Mr President, I have not taken any legislative initiatives before, and here I am collecting names, I noticed that this does not work, it is a network marketing job and it is quite challenging to collect names from the knob. I really hope — as Mr Juhani said there — that the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, if they have time, would ask the Ministry for a reply or some assessment of this. In any case, I will also come to the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, Mr Leppä, and to his staff, and I hope that the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry will in any case launch studies to deal with this issue, which will be the formal procedure for this initiative. President! When I did this and collected those names, I couldn’t help but compare it with the fact that if I didn’t happen to be a congressman, I would be there as a normal, non-parliamentary citizen and collect names for this in the citizens’ initiative service, it would be much easier. I did the math here: 62 MPs have signed this initiative, and if everyone had an average of 4,000 voters, he would have 248,000 votes or signatures. And the citizens' initiative, which will be fully dealt with in this House, requires 50,000 votes or signatures. I think it is a little bit of our parliamentaryism and democracy that we here are preparing these serious legislative initiatives — this too is a serious matter, a bill relating to the wolf phenomenon and the legal protection of hunters in general, and there are basically more than 200,000 signatures here, but this goes somewhere and is dealt with if there is time — and then, when the citizens' initiative, which has been drawn up by skimming, gets 50,000 bank accounts, then it gets a full process. I hope that at some point, when these basic issues are dealt with, this issue will also be considered: what really is fair and what is in keeping with the spirit of democracy?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-02-21-ps-163.u334	Madam Speaker! I would like to make it quite clear, since this is now mainly linked to the wolf population: There has been a formal change in the method of calculating the wolf population. In the past, the stock has been officially calculated to be between 200 and 300 wolves, and then the adult wolves have been calculated. Now, according to the new calculation method, litters are also counted, so clearly the wolf population is at least one hundred larger than the previous ones, and it is visible in living life.
