ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 5/2019 vp. The debate will begin with a general debate with a rapid response, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. Furthermore, in the order in which I am considering it, I agree with the response.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u2	Mr President! The third amending budget for 2019 has been discussed in a relatively broad consensus. There is, however, one dissenting opinion which proposes an increase in the appropriations to be carried over to the municipalities. The Government's proposal for an increase of EUR 237 million in the central government share of basic municipal services concerns the planned transfer from 2020 to the compensation related to the implementation of the competitiveness agreement. This is a lump sum paid equally to municipalities in November or December of the current year in the amount of EUR 43.22 per capita. The committee considers that early compensation is justified because of the poor local government finances. The operating expenditure of municipalities has increased, and tax revenue has also been lower than anticipated. This is estimated to be due, inter alia, to changes in the procedure for withholding tax and factors related to the introduction of the national income register which affect the timing of the collections. According to the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, the condition of local government finances has deteriorated strongly this year. The tax revenue of municipalities has fallen particularly strongly from the spring forecast. Local government expenditure and investments have also grown faster than expected. The result for the financial year is falling to a deficit of EUR 0.9 billion this year. Prior to this, the lowest profit for the current type of financial statements in the municipal accounting history has been EUR 0.4 billion, i.e. EUR 400 million minus the deficit in 2012. Thus, the decrease in municipal tax revenue this year has largely been due to changes in the system of income tax, rather than to a severe decline in the cyclical trend. The tax card reform introduced at the beginning of the year, based on the annual income limit, as well as the Incomes Register, gave rise to a kind of arrhythmia in municipalities' tax accounts, which has delayed the accumulation of tax revenue. A major factor, of course, is the fact that the condition of local government finances is being weakened just this year by a number of state-owned decisions that have been passed from the previous government period. Typically, they are related to the implementation of a competitiveness pact or various savings laws. The Kiky cuts will be full in the current year, even though, for example, the savings from the holiday allowance cut are already shrinking away and the lengthening of working time has not, according to the municipal union, brought the savings targets set for the municipalities. In addition, the accumulation of municipal tax revenue has been slowed down for several years by the rise in wage and salary earners' social insurance contributions. As figures, this would seem to cover a good quarter of the municipal deficit, but on a municipal level it does not make quite as comforting a patching-up as compensation is paid on the basis of the population level and also goes to the municipalities that make positive financial statements for this year. However, it makes it much easier for most of the municipalities affected by the deficit cycle and is a very positive measure. After all, those larger medicines will come in next year's budget, and they will then be discussed separately. In this amending budget, the government also tabled amendments to the estimates of revenue. Among other things, the estimates of revenue from VAT and transfer tax will be increased, while the estimates of earnings tax and capital income tax and energy tax will be reduced. Total and aggregated revenue estimates will be reduced by EUR 443 million. These changes are estimated to amount to around EUR 107.4 billion at the end of this year, or around 44% of GDP. The committee therefore proposed that Parliament accept the proposal for the third amending budget for 2019 contained in the Government proposal for 28 of these Parliaments without amendment, and that Parliament rejects the supplementary budget initiative ITA 10 for these Parliaments and that Parliament should decide that the third amending budget for 2019 will apply from the end of this month, i.e. 31 October 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u3	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and others present!
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u12	I will admit four of the speeches that have been asked for, and then we will have a debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u13	Mr President! This action, which is what is being done in this amending budget, is quite necessary, that is to say, these kiky returns are being prematureized, which will make it easier for the municipalities to get to grips with the previous government, that is to say, to say, to summarise this by saying that this is where the actions of the previous government are now being put in place. But it is good that this is the case — it is important for the municipalities to find some relief in the current situation. It occurred to me when I listened to the previous speech that I think there were different thoughts in the meeting there a year back in the autumn, when Mr Orpo in the budget debate said that the local government finances were stronger than they were in 20 years. That is what was said last autumn, and now we see the results.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u34	Mr President! As has already been said here, with this amending budget we are indeed deciding that the payment of the municipalities' central government contributions for next year will be brought forward by a one-off increase of EUR 237 million in central government contributions to this year. We are talking about compensation for the holiday allowance cuts in the Kiky agreement, which avoids a double reduction of the State contribution due to the kiky. The amount of EUR 237 million to be carried over to this year will be reduced accordingly from next year's state shares, thus facilitating the acute cash crisis in municipalities this year. However, this in itself will not help in the financial distress of municipalities next year or in the longer term. Mr President! The local government economy in Finland is in a weak position and is worrying because the municipalities' finances depend essentially on whether municipalities are able to take care of the health and well-being of their residents, whether municipalities are able to provide quality education and early childhood education, and whether municipalities are able to combat climate change and protect the environment. The background is an acceleration in the growth of local government operating expenditure, while tax revenue is falling below the forecast. In particular, the increase in social and health expenditure due to the ageing of the population and the new measures decided by the government, which are indeed necessary in themselves, will increase the expenditure of municipalities. That is why it is important that the government now succeeds in bringing the social welfare reform to the end this season, as we have outlined in the Government Programme. The new tasks that come to the municipalities mean to a large extent services for residents, investments in the well-being and learning of our children and young people, investments in strengthening basic health care and improving the quality of care for the elderly. For example, 57 million out of the EUR 60 million allocated to strengthening the quality and equality of basic education is allocated to local government finances. According to the Government Programme, future tasks for municipalities will be fully compensated for by municipalities, and that is what we in the Government will hold onto.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u42	Mr President! We have always known in this Chamber that you, Mr Viitanen, are engaged in political archaeology, and you did not fail this time either. [Quick Five] Let's get to the point. Firstly, I very much welcome the fact that the government is living in time and this amending budget now brings this EUR 237 million to the municipalities. It's more than necessary. Local government finances have gone a bit out of order, and it has already been pointed out that they are partly due to these arrhythmias and technical factors relating to taxation, such as this tax card reform and the introduction of the Incomes Register. If I understand correctly, the question is, in Finnish, that we do not know sufficiently well in advance, and here, of course, we have something to do with the tax administration as well. We do not know well enough how much tax revenue will go to congregations, municipalities or the state in the year, and how much taxation will come to man himself. This is the root cause of the problem. Then there are the political problems: the problem is that we have not achieved social reform. We now have a seventh government that is carrying out social welfare reform, and as long as this is the responsibility of the municipalities, we will have difficulties in the local government economy. That is quite clear, and that will be the case in the coming years. That is why I very much welcome the fact that this government, with its own government programme and the appeal from the Department of Local Government and the Ministry of Finance, is making a broader picture of this whole — the local government economy, services, staff availability — both at the level of the individual municipality, by municipality group and as a whole. For such a knowledge base, we certainly all need a great deal. Then I would like to raise the objection of the Finns of Peru: Attention has been drawn here to the fact that only EUR 10 million has been proposed for discretionary purposes. It is true that EUR 10 million was put forward when we started preparing this year's budget — in May to June, I think, I made a proposal on what is being proposed. Then a year and a half ago the view of municipal finances was quite good, and I thought it was good that we got this kind of small buffer here, when the most vulnerable municipalities could help. When I dug up little information, it turned out that the last time we had a discretionary grant from municipalities in 2014, the amount was EUR 20 million. There are many of us who remember the times when we have actually had almost half of the municipalities seeking discretion. It is a quick patch, it can only help for a moment, and there are strict criteria for how to pass it on.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u43	Mr President! True Finns are very concerned about the state of municipal finances. Indeed, we are dealing here with the government's proposal for the third amending budget of this year, and we are proposing that the discretionary state contribution be increased from 10 million to 60 million, and this is what we are protesting about. The Finns also worry about the future and what next year’s budget will bring us. We have heard, and everyone here in Parliament has hoped that we will get a nurseship, and it will cost, but also the care guarantee is important, and that, the government, you are bringing. Both these matters, the staffing of which you are referring to as the management measure, and the care guarantee, are currently inadequately budgeted, and this is extremely worrying. You have told our citizens and our representatives here that the care guarantee will bring it to a thousand more doctors. There is talk of doctors all the time and of people being admitted to treatment within seven working days when the care guarantee comes, but unfortunately the reality is different. There is no money there, and when you study the background materials, you talk about multiprofessional teams, which means that with what people expect and what Finnish social and health care needs — basic services in order to ensure that you have access to a doctor — you will actually not be able to get there, but you will be directed to a multiprofessional team at the health centre. I am particularly concerned whether you have misled the Finnish people once again and ate up your words. In the end, who will that person be able to see? Can it get to a doctor in a week, or can it get to a multiprofessional team and who are these people? In Finland, the biggest problem with social welfare and health care is that the doctor cannot get there in time, and this needs to be put in order, but you are now bringing us multiprofessional teams. [Department : Minority matter! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u44	The opportunity has now been opened for replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u45	Mr President! Mr Viitanen does not seem to understand at all what the economy is all about. The current government is playing a huge risk when it catches more than EUR 1 000 million, that is, more than a billion, on permanent spending, without any knowledge of these revenues.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u46	Mr President! Care, care and education, they are indeed in the hands of the municipalities in Finland, and when Mrs Juvonen here regretted the difficult economic situation in her own hometown too, I must say that without this patching-up measure of the Rinte government — already this year, and in advance, EUR 1.1 billion — Espoo's economy would also be considerably worse. Indeed, the government has committed itself to fully financing all new tasks through state contributions. Isn't this a good thing? [Leena Sea interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u49	Mr President! When we discussed here whose line is the right one, I would like to take my part in examining history. Let's remember what the situation was when the Finns went to the government in 2015: The Commission was putting us under surveillance. We were in a downward spiral. We were in Greece's way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u53	Mr President! There is concern about municipal finances on the side of the Finns-based society, which is also appropriate. But in the budget debate it was not clear whether the Finnish people's line was the same as that of President Halla-aho in 2011 in the election machine of Helsingin Sanomat,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u56	Mr President! As Mr Guzenina has well pointed out, next year we will see an additional EUR 1.1 billion in municipal government contributions, because the government has indeed recognised the urgent need for additional money. There is a warm memory here of how the last government reportedly recovered public finances, but it is not a welcome move to transfer central government debt to the municipalities and to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u59	Mr President! The economic situation of municipalities has deteriorated considerably in recent years, even though local services of great importance to citizens are provided by municipalities. The income base of municipalities has been weakened by falling tax revenues and the decisions of the previous government to cut central government shares. The Association of Local and Regional Authorities has raised the Kiky Agreement as one of the main reasons for the difficult situation in municipalities. At the same time, the expenditure of municipalities and joint municipal boards grew by over 3 per cent. This year, uncertainty and financial distress have been increased by changes in the withholding procedure and the reporting problems of the Incomes Register. The current government is increasing its share of the state. The Government has decided to put an end to the cuts in the central government shares of municipalities at the end of this year, and now it will facilitate the situation of municipalities by bringing some of this forward. This is very important, and this is particularly important for municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u60	Ärade talman, Mr President! This amending government budget under discussion is a very important and good thing. Indeed, many municipalities, as has been mentioned here, have very challenging financial conditions, and 88 municipalities have applied for discretionary funding. That these 237 million are really important. When I was the mayor of the municipality budgeting, the tax accrual forecasts were used by the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, and now the problems in the Incomes Register collapsed forecasts and disrupted the budgeting of the municipalities, which amounted to 400 million. This is now visible when budgets are being made, and it is therefore also important that this money comes. However, I would like to point out that when these reforms are carried out, there will be patience in carrying out and carrying out reforms, and proper impact assessments will be carried out. I know that the government will be doing these over the next four years, and the municipalities must trust,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u61	Mr President! 190 municipal groups are making deficit accounts, and 88 are seeking this discretionary assistance, which is then distributed by the 10 million that, in that sense, this is a slightly underbudgeted item. Of course, there is always a discretionary one, which specifically seeks temporary assistance, but these figures from municipalities indicate that this is a long-term problem. Now not only are small and medium-sized municipalities in difficulty, but also the central cities of the provinces. In fact, you could say that with the exception of Helsinki, all the central cities in the provinces are also making deficit results, and the deficits are fluctuating in tens of millions there. And what is most serious is that, in this situation, under the threat of dismissal, there are social workers in the negotiations when we have to wonder where we can find the social workers anyway. In other words, the government must no longer make decisions which increase the costs of municipalities if there is no State contribution to them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u63	Mr President! I will return to this EU novel and, of course, to the state of the economy and the way in which the Rinte government is dealing with this issue, explains Minister Lintilä’s statement that, according to the government’s assessment, ‘this is a particularly serious matter of noncompliance with the Stability and Growth Pact’,i.e. he admits that there are a large number ofinfractions,and that a serious remark from the EU is only a few months after the start of the work of this government. In this amending budget, I would have expected a little more input into care for the elderly, as President Lindtman said: ‘For the first year in this country, there is not enough time to approvethe combination of carers in the day-to-day care system. Finally, this matter will be put right.”
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u70	Mr President! Representative Heinonen and others at the meeting should read the proposal for a nurse’s report. This means that next year really will be the care units that are currently under a recommendation — some 100 of them — once and for all will come into the illegal state.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u75	Mr President! The starting point of the Finns Party is that the whole country is considered to be habitable, and this naturally requires equalisation systems also for local government finances. That is unambiguously clear. Mr Rantakangas, I am surprised that you are not concerned about this truly gloomy situation in local government finances. According to the pressure calculation, your home city’s tax rate will rise by 5.5 percentage points to over 26 per cent according to the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u79	Mr President! It is important that the government is up-to-date and that municipalities receive more central government shares this year. After all, next year the impact of state measures on local government finances will be EUR 300 million plus a sign. [Call for the Cape] It was excellent that Mr Kankaanniemi, as a municipal expert, spoke on the importance of state subsidies and tax compensation. The beach fabric there said that 2011 Halla-aho disagreed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u81	Mr President! They were asking me which line was the right one. We know that the line taken by the last government was the cut-off line, but, Mr President, in order to assess this issue, I would like to know what the line adopted by the Assembly is.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u89	Mr President! Here Mr Viitanen earlier referred to the international recommendation that those who can afford to revive should be revived. I would like to say that it merely referred to the somewhat more sound Central European economies, which are in a much better economic situation. I personally welcome this extension of the draft amending budget to the municipalities, because the economic situation in the municipalities is currently exceptionally challenging. In order to achieve a more permanent improvement, a broader approach is needed. Firstly, addressing the problems of the tax accounting system is one. On the other hand, there is also an increase in employment. This employment experiment was actually carried out during the last government, and I myself was in Tampere as mayor at the time of the experiment. We need an assessment of the obligations. Among other things, the question has been raised as to whether next year, with these VOS increases, municipalities will still be able to raise this dimension adequately, whether there will be a sufficient number of doctors available to guarantee treatment. There is a debate on this right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u90	Mr President! Indeed, I am concerned about next year and the coming period. You have promised that it will be 0.7, but we all understand that and know that it is easier said than done. Then where are you going to save us the 0.7? Does that mean that an increasing number of professional nurses, local nurses, nurses will have to wonder whether it is their job or whether they will be replaced by someone else? Then I will raise the issue of local government finances in the sense that we have just received the Therapy Guarantee Citizens' Initiative here in Parliament, and we attach great importance to it. I ask you, are you going to take it forward? For we are going to need huge investments, we are going to get mental health services, we are going to get help for people and we are going to get the support and security for young people and schoolchildren that they need, and I am afraid that there will be no money coming. But what do you say, do you bring this therapeutic guarantee?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u92	Mr President! I believe that Mr Ikonen referred to this discussion paper published by Mr Reuters, in which the Commission specifically refers to the fact that Member States should now, rather than react proactively, respond to this deterioration in growth. Two countries are mentioned here, for which they warn — Italy and Greece — and who must ensure that the faith of the market is preserved. Finland is not among those who have been warned. [Leena Sea interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u95	We're about to hear the answer. Before that, Mr. Honkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u96	Mr President! As we all know, the situation in local government finances is not easy. We have also heard about this in the municipal and health section over the last few weeks, and I am sure we are all very concerned about that. This comes as no surprise, because it relates to social and health services, just as Mr Vehviläinen, chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, said in his in-depth speech, and I believe that in this Chamber each party can look at the mirror in one way or another — the mirror can then be chosen by itself. But now the finances of the municipalities are really being strengthened and strengthened. In the big picture, it is important not to break the wings of economic growth. As you can see, employment will continue to strengthen, and when you look at the state of central government, now that the 12-year period of the coalition has ended and during that period the central government debt has almost doubled or more, it is important to maintain sustainable economic growth. In that sense, I believe that these increases in state participation will also be necessary, and that is where the same tax revenue is generated by the municipalities, where, of course, Sipilä's Government and its measures played a major role.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u97	Mr President! First: Mr Lindtman, you have not answered Mr Heinonen's question. When you are In Maikkari said that ‘in the first year of this country, there will not be any single authorisation for the
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u102	Mr President! It has been said in this Chamber on many occasions that those parts of the coalition's employment plans which are not cuts for the low-income unemployed are being implemented: investing in employment services, helping people with the need to update their skills and thereby making a human effort to improve employment. There is no doubt about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u106	Mr President! Sometimes I feel that this debate is quite out of the municipal reality in which we live, despite the fact that so many of us are also the decision-makers. The fact is that, at the moment, there is a very alarming message from the municipalities, namely that there is a worrying, critical situation, which is added in itself by the fact that we have new demographic forecasts, according to which the birth rate is falling and, with the ageing population, costs are increasing at the same time in social and health services, for example. When we talk about the state of local government finances, we talk about the most important core services in the welfare society: day care centres, schools, care for the elderly, mental health services and so on. That is why this should be a central theme in policy making that we are dealing with here through realism. It's confusing how much time you're spending on the routing of the coalition and the previous seasons. We can certainly be accused of many things over the last period, but you cannot blame us for not taking the state of municipal finances seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u107	If the response is so much longer than a minute, then let us move on to the actual ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u108	Mr President! Local government finances are in crisis, as has been said, and there are many reasons for this. The expenditure development of joint municipal and municipal authorities is increasing by 4 to 5%, for one reason, but then there are also these tax card reforms and income register sorrows, but I believe that they will then be corrected for their part. It is a great thing that the current government has taken on board the municipal finances and is now rapidly correcting the local government finances with an amending budget and for next year there will be 1.1 billion in total and also, as stated in the Government Programme, fully compensate for these additional tasks that are being put in place for the municipalities. This is the right municipal policy. However, a long-term municipal economy programme is likely to be needed for local government finances during this term of government. In other words, if the social welfare funding model is not temporarily built in any other way before 23 C.E., then simply the municipalities and joint municipal authorities will not be able to cope with this development of expenditure. This big picture of local government finances will probably have to come back to this room during this term of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u109	I would like to give four more replies, to the representatives of Ovaska, Sarkkinen, Multala and Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u110	Mr President! Perhaps the reason why the Assembly is being questioned is precisely that, when you first heard Mr Heinonen's speeches, they are in complete contradiction with many other speakers from the People's Party. When you look at the actual issue of the amending budget, it has also been behind this report. And when you listen to the speeches from the representatives again, the speech is completely different from the truth, for example, from that report from the committee. So, yes, thank the people of Peru that they have vigorously backed up one line and protested. It is not possible to find out what that party thinks about matters. As far as this question of local government finances is concerned, I fully agree with the previous speaker: we certainly need some sort of rescue programme for municipalities. First of all, I would like to talk about the differences between the large cities – we have Helsinki against the others. The big cities will look hard at next year's budgets with a negative eye, very difficult years ahead, even though such a good government proposal is coming.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u111	Mr President! The state of local government finances is indeed extremely worrying. I hope everyone in this Chamber will be aware of that. The Government will make the situation of local government finances considerably easier next year, with central government transfers increasing by more than one billion when central government cuts are abolished, and as a reminder to Mr Grahn-Laasonen that, in fact, the very weak state of the local government finances of this year is a major cause of the previously decided cuts in local government finances, which are very much related to the kiky agreement and other cuts. This year's local government finances are in a very bad situation and this year's amending budget will make it easier to bring forward payments for next year. This is an important solution for the rest of the year. But although next year's budget will help the local government finances with central government transfers, the structural problems of local government finances will not be eliminated. In particular, the economic problems caused by ageing and the loss of the population will not be eliminated, and therefore the reform of social security is extremely important and acute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u112	Mr President! What is the line of the Coalition Party? Well, the consensus is that we need employment measures. From the point of view of municipalities, this is also a matter of prime importance, since municipalities also live on those tax revenues in addition to the central government shares. Then there is absolutely no doubt that I agree with the previous speeches here, where concerns are expressed about the finances of the municipalities. It is quite clear that the finances of municipalities do not seem to be developing positively next year and need to be done something about it. In itself, this proposal, which is now on this table, is positive. However, what I am criticising, Mr Heinonen and myself, is that it seems that the government does not now understand that, when new obligations are created for municipalities, such as this management measure, and a totally inadequate amount of money is allocated to them, this will further weaken the local government economy in the coming years. For example, when you look at how the central government shares are calculated, they are calculated on an accounting basis — not on the basis of the costs incurred, but on an accounting basis. In other words, when these matters are handled differently in municipalities, this will also affect in different ways the ability of different municipalities to manage their services in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u113	Honorable Speaker! Indeed, this report contains an objection, and there was a statement in the protest that we would like to increase the general understanding of the state of the municipal economy while at the same time strengthening the competence and management of the local and regional departments of the VM because this department is responsible for the calculation and analysis of the local government finances and so that, following the establishment of this management and competence, the creation of the regulatory frameworks for local government finances can then be started, in line with the recommendations of the VTV. We're a little short of them. Of course, we have some rules, but we should strengthen the general steering mechanisms and develop tools for steering local government finances on the basis of the latest academic studies. At the same time, a further 50 million will be proposed for this aid, as some 100 million have been applied for. Finally, I would just like to say that there should be one speech. If you have been there in your municipality of residence to apply for such support in your municipality,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u114	Let us return to the actual speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u115	Mr President! The amending budget is in order, and that brings forward EUR 237 million. Perhaps it will be brought forward a little more than from January to December, so I have to say that it is no help to the municipal crisis, but it will adorn the financial statements of this year, which according to the estimates of the Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities were in this early autumn such that only Helsinki will make a positive result this year and all other municipalities in Mainland Finland will be negative. I'm sure that's gonna change that number a little bit now. Of course, it can be said here that this 237 million Helsinki will receive 28 million, when this is the way in which it is divided. After this decision, therefore, Helsinki will make even more surpluses than it would have done without this, and this will make it easier for other municipalities to do so. I understand, Mr President, that this 237 million-dollar pot, which is the amount associated with pain, will prevent a double cut from the municipality, and that is how it should be distributed. It's logical. But this is how it is that the rich receive more from this government than the poor, and this is what is going to happen. Mr President! I was amazed at this dispute between the left and the coalition here. After all, the situation was that in the period 2011-2015 more than 100,000 new unemployed people came to Finland, public debt grew horribly, there were no negotiations.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u118	Mr President! It is worth pointing out a few more facts about these employment measures, now that the representatives of the Assembly, who, unfortunately, have already left the Chamber, have called for these employment measures. Compared to the previous parliamentary term, the Sipilä Government, when a historic improvement in the employment of Finns was achieved — more and more families were given jobs and livelihoods, and this also had an impact on local government finances, and this was, after all, the background to the Kiki-agreement and other important measures which improved employment — these measures were far from complete when The Sipilä government had only sat for a hundred days, just as the present government of the country has sat. I repeat: the current government of the country has only sat for over a hundred days. The measures taken by the Sipilä government were not yet complete at the time. They went to the next year, and during the parliamentary term these measures were then brought here as government proposals and made it better than employment. I think it is dishonest to expect that we should, as it were at this stage, be here in the process of dealing with this house, Parliament, ready for large wholesale measures,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u122	Mr President! Municipalities provide people with the public services that are really close to their daily lives. Municipalities take care of very important social, health, educational, leisure and technical services, ranging from baby to baby. Unfortunately, the economic situation of municipalities has deteriorated considerably in recent years. According to the municipal finances programme published in autumn last year, 2018, the annual margin was negative in 43 municipalities, whereas in the previous year there were only four such municipalities. The income base of municipalities was weakened by lower tax revenues and the decisions of the previous government to cut central government shares. The Association of Local and Regional Authorities has raised the Kiky Agreement as one of the main reasons for the difficult situation in municipalities. At the same time, the expenditure of municipalities and joint municipal boards grew by over 3 per cent. Also for this year, 2019, the local government economy has not been doing well. This year, uncertainty and financial distress have been increased by changes in the withholding procedure and the reporting problems of the Incomes Register. In the longer term, the situation in many municipalities is hampered by low population growth and the need for services in Finland is differentiated. Mr President! The current government is increasing its share of the state. The Government has decided to close the cuts in the central government shares of municipalities at the end of this year. As a result, central government shares will increase by around EUR 1.1 billion compared to this year. A large part of the increase in the central government share is the return of cuts to the previous level and an index increase of EUR 166 million is also made to the central government share of basic services. In addition, the new tasks assigned to the municipalities will be fully funded according to the terms of the Government Programme, and this is very important. Indeed, the government is implementing very important things, such as the restoration of children's subjective early childhood education rights, the reduction of group sizes and, among other things, the extension of child protection after-care. Mr President! Today, we are discussing the third amending budget for 2019, and it is simply a question of bringing forward next year, 2020, a one-off increase of EUR 237 million in central government contributions. This Appendix therefore refers to compensation for the holiday allowance cuts in the Kiky agreement. So this is not exactly what is called. new money,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u125	Mr President! There's no one left in this courtroom.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u128	Mr President! The government really deserves to be commended for having relatively agilely brought this proposal, which we now have in the amending budget. In fact, I do not remember that in this Chamber, while I have been sitting in Parliament, local government finances have been patched up with such extra state contributions if we have been in an exceptionally stalling situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u131	Mr President! I must take up Mr Guzenina's remarks on the parking of home care. That is an excellent thing, and I am particularly pleased about it, because from the beginning of the year, we Finns started a written question to Minister Marin, who then took this idea from there, which was an excellent thing. However, we have to ask at this point whether someone has been able to write these general arguments about the amending budget without laughing, because this is based on the fact that economic growth is still looking positive in the near future. What indicators do you think are like this when all the experts are speaking in a different direction? Thirdly, I would like to say that, as is well known in this House, the local government economy and the state economy are stalling, and I must say that this word of innovation, which came out of this Chamber,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u132	When the replies do not stay within a minute, we shall move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u133	Mr President! It is excellent that the government of the country reacts to the difficult economic situation in the municipalities. Of course, this difficult economic situation in the municipalities was no surprise to anyone. It has evolved, and now it is gradually being corrected. It is true that it is a long and rocky road, but it is inevitable that we will have to go down that road, and it is precisely that the municipalities are the institutions that provide the services to the citizens. It is worth recalling that, according to the government's programme, if the government assigns tasks to municipalities, it will also send the money so that we do not go into the municipality's purse any more to take away from it when it has recently been the subject of considerable ventilation. However, I would like to see an understanding in this House of the fact that many good projects are in progress in this country when we talk about business projects. Last time there has been a hard debate on forest use. I would like to see the great wisdom found in the Finnish Parliament in this matter that we should not spoil our own chances by imposing various artificial barriers to the increase in the use of forests. Take, for example, this Finnpulp project in Kuopio, which is a mega-class project, a huge project. There has been a debate in this context, which I have followed with great sadness — there has also been a huge loss of lance that should be brought to an end. I can't understand it. And we have many other smaller projects, which are based specifically on the forestry industry. If it is difficult for a person in this country to understand the situation as to why the forest industry is coming, look at Sweden — we have an excellent benchmark for our western neighbor. Sweden beats almost all its annual growth every year. There is no talk of such a debate at all as to whether it is necessary to limit it to someone from LULUCF or someone else. We're not having that conversation in practice. Sweden beats huge quantities, much more relatively than Finland. There it is not a problem, we seem to have a huge problem. So we'd better do those homework a little better. Then we'll be fine. It is clear that if we want to improve the situation of our citizens there must be work, then there must be good services in the municipality where they live, and, thirdly, when we live here in the middle of an aged age class and too few children are born, the shortage of this rising generation can only be remedied by having jobs for us people. Young couples who settle down somewhere and get a job are very likely to start a family at the same time and to have children. Then the big problem, or ageing, of this nation will gradually begin to get right. But you have to go down that road all the time. It is precisely so that we must have the courage to invest, to take up jobs, to issue permits. We have taken bureaucracy to a huge level in this country. During the last parliamentary term, it was boldly dismantled, with more than 300 standards. I would also like to call on all Finnish governments, now and from now on, to have the same objective of dismantling bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u134	Mr President! Thank you for that reply. — Yes, I must say that Mr Rantanen had quite a lively interpretation of the way in which this law on parking for home care staff has moved forward. It moved on 12 years ago — as I recall, Mr Rantanen was then a demari
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u137	Mr President! Mr Guzenina raised this line of care for the elderly and the assembly. If I remember these forecasts from the Ministry of Finance, the cost of care for the elderly will rise, although nothing will be done, by the end of this parliamentary term of more than one billion. This means that this amending budget, in which the municipalities have been given money, is entirely in the right direction. They will probably continue to have to be considered, because municipalities as a rule assume responsibility for care for the elderly, and that is why central government contributions are needed to enable them to survive. There is also a need for a tax compensation system, as adequate services must be provided to residents throughout the country. It's already out of the Constitution. As far as the Kiki agreement is concerned, one of the success cornerstones of Finland's employment policy was partly thanks to kiky, and if I recall these Bank of Finland's tables correctly, then 2014-2017 unit labour costs for Finland improved by 6.5 per cent compared to our main competitors.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u139	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank my older colleagues for a good history lesson. There has been a lot of useful, educational history here that has been spoken today in this Chamber. That was the happier news, and then, of course, there is this subject which we have today, when we talk about municipalities. There are a lot of facts here, and a billion for this year is going to be long for the municipalities. I think Helsinki is the only one who really stays on the plus side. There has been talk of compensation for the 237 million Competitiveness Pact, and it has also been said that it is compensation. It won't keep you warm for very long, but of course it's better than nothing. Mr Eestilä mentioned the word ‘constitutional law’ just a few moments ago,and I followed up with a different word to quote:The Constitution is protected by the municipal selfgovernment,which means the right of The principle of self-government is that the municipality itself decides on the tasks it has assumed under its self-government. Otherwise, the municipality can only be given tasks by law. In practice, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has already pointed out that the tasks assigned to municipalities by law under Article 121(2) of the Constitution must not, because of the protection of the constitution of self-government, undermine the capacity of municipalities to act in a way that undermines the ability of municipalities to decide independently on their finances and thus on their own administration. We know that we have just gone through the booming season, and at this stage the municipalities are in the state that has been stressed in many speeches today — very hard to hear. And now we also know that, according to forecasts, the downturn is beginning. We know that Germany and also the western neighbour are already in pain, and unfortunately we are on the same train. Municipalities are the cornerstone of our society, and many things are linked to the existence of municipalities or the ability of municipalities to carry out the tasks assigned to them, including the services of social services and carers, which have been mentioned here on many occasions today. By the way, the Constitution states in Article 19 that, in relation to the nurseship, all the inhabitants of our country are equal and receive the same care and protection that is theirs, and then, of course, it is a good thing and an indication, but it can be much greater, and then we could follow it. It can now be said that there are 70% of these statutory tasks, so the margins of municipalities are rather narrow, especially on the social side, and that is why I quoted the Constitution a little. Mr President, we are now in a situation where too many municipalities have begun or are entering into negotiations. The economy is in a position to ensure that basic services cannot be provided soon. This leads to an overload of staff, and the consequences can be very worrying, measured by many human indicators — these experiences have already come to light in the provinces in many cases in connection with the performance of these other tasks. Thus, this has already happened in many municipalities, and there have been unfortunate burn-outs. The means have already been used by the municipalities, and the worst seems to be just ahead. We will shortly be violating the Constitution in many places in our country. And even layoffs turn on us. We know that an overloaded situation leads to premature sickness pensions and only increases fatigue and, at the same time, even higher absenteeism rates. The situation is, I wouldn't say, unsustainable. I know that we will come back to municipal affairs many more times during this autumn and during the forthcoming term of government. Unfortunately, there is no minister here who I can ask, but I am sending a message in the direction of the government that is there such a view that we now have over 300 municipalities in the course of this term of government turning into 200 or 100 municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u142	Mr President! Mr Filatov said that we should invest in increasing labour productivity, and I myself wondered how, in recent years, for example, when I was an official, I felt that the public officials of the municipality and the state had already made the most of them. There's not much left to rip off people's backs. There have been various efficiency and productivity programmes that have in practice been aimed at reducing staff. I myself remember well when I was a lawyer at the Local Register Office, how the number of clients grew in the department, and there were three spirit writers in guardianship, eventually I was alone. That is all you can really reduce, so that, hopefully, you do not mean this by productivity, that we are going to cut down on the staff, because that is what it often means. About this municipal economy: I want to talk about the situation in Hyvinkää. I am there now another way in the City Board, and we have set up the Hyvinkää Economic Balancing Group as well, and calculatedly we are going to have a deficit. The need for an increase of around 2% in municipal tax would be if we took it entirely as an increase in municipal tax, but we understand that there is a question of retention and attraction in that it would be disastrous for municipalities and many people who are already fighting with their livelihoods. It was said here that this is a fine and historic matter, that additional money is now being granted to municipalities. I am sure so, but I think it is entirely appropriate, because this deficit is very much due to these reforms concerning the Incomes Register and the Tax Card, and at least we Hyvinkää, the CFO, said that these calculations were made in 2017 on the basis of the assumption that this is the level, so that the municipalities have actually been as in good faith, and in that sense it is quite right that this compensation is being made. That is where Ovaska, the representative of the city centre, well admitted to me that the Finns are honest about the matter. We are criticising the fact that the municipalities are not getting enough discretionary support to apply for, and we are proposing an addition to it, but there has been, for example, a vote here, and many Members have been right to say that the vote is going to make a mockery of it, but then the committee has not wanted to propose an amendment, which I am wondering very much. I think the members of the Committee on Finance will know better what has been going on there. The representative Kankaanniemi gave me a good indication of the situation we had in the last period, even when the Finns of Finland started in the government. So we had a situation where we stood in the way of Greece. Finland was on the verge of bankruptcy, the Commission swooped down on us, we had become 100,000 new unemployed, and I remember when on TV few nights I watched the news and the Yt had started somewhere, and with horror I watched the unemployment increase. The municipalities raised tax rates and the state assets were sold, and I am tired of reminding you that at the time — the SDP and the Greens, among other things, in the government — you sold Caruna. It will be a huge amount of mail from people that, no matter how much you reduce electricity consumption, on the electricity bill it will sometimes be less than the Caruna network charge, and surely international venture investors will rub their hands. Don't make any more mistakes like this when you sell a fortune. Mr Kankaanniemi's report on the fact that it has been clarified that in municipalities with less than 6000 inhabitants this means an increase of 5.5%, precisely in these small municipalities, and that is where more discretionary support would certainly have been needed, and in that sense I am surprised that the government has not responded in a brisk way to the need. We should now note what has been said here that we are once again dealing with the solvency that the EU has now warned us about. Of course, I believe that each country is in charge of its own affairs, but now we should probably think about whether or not we are involved in that EU. If we are and always appeal to these regulations to be complied with, then why do we not listen to the sound of a warning of housekeeping, and yes, I myself am very concerned about this debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u143	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The Association of Local and Regional Authorities has repeatedly stressed the crisis of local government economies. In 2018, the result of up to 196 municipalities remained negative. This is about two thirds of all Finnish municipalities. The Association of Local and Regional Authorities has also concluded that the new statutory services would no longer last. In view of this situation, the Government Programme states that no new tasks will be assigned to the municipalities without compensation. We municipal decision-makers know that it is tough to carry out the local government's current tasks in a high-quality way, and this pressure is reflected in the budgetary negotiations that are just starting in the municipalities. As far as Finnish municipalities are concerned, the third amending budget of the Board of Directors is indeed needed. The amending budget compensates for one-off cuts in holiday allowances for municipalities of EUR 237 million. This will ease the cash deficit of municipalities. The tax revenue of municipalities is becoming considerably lower than anticipated. Both the tax card reform and the introduction of the Incomes Register system have been assessed as part of this. Next year's tax revenue estimates have been more difficult than before. The weak outlook for local government finances is not only reflected in small and medium-sized municipalities. Large municipalities, such as Espoo, have also been in distress with their economy. The city's growth is 5,000 inhabitants per year. However, in contrast to the previous situation, the increase in the population will no longer result in an increase in tax revenues. The conditions for growth, large infrastructure projects and the construction of services required by new residents, such as schools and kindergartens, as well as the repair of indoor air-related sites, have fulfilled investment programmes for the coming years. In Espoo in just over ten years, investments in school and day care centres alone amount to more than one billion, and this is also not possible to accommodate all the necessary projects. Growth cities are also the driving force behind the economy of the whole country. The creation and growth of enterprises that create new jobs must be made possible in them. Thus, the distribution of central government shares still requires reform. Local government debt has accumulated a great deal, and the debt level is still growing. The aim is to curb debt in municipalities by saving the economy of use, with little success. The operating costs of municipalities and joint municipal boards have increased by 4.5 per cent or the category, while operating output has fallen by 3.4 per cent. According to the KAKS Foundation for the Development of the Municipal Sector, three out of four, i.e. 73% of municipal managers, do not believe in achieving the objective of sustainability, fairness and adequacy of municipal funding. It is the leaders of the largest cities and municipalities who are particularly suspicious. Municipal personnel are also getting tired. This trust that has been lost in recent years must be corrected. The government has taken action and decided to end the cuts in the central government shares of municipalities, and 1.1 billion will be allocated to this. As many people have already mentioned, these are necessary but not sufficient measures. We need a close dialogue with municipalities and active rescue measures in the municipal economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u144	Mr President! I think there has been a good debate here on this government proposal, and I would like to make a brief mention of it and then comment on a couple of points that have been raised. I am not going to repeat what has already been said, among other things, by Mr Filatov and Mr Eskelinen here some time ago, in which, in my opinion, the current situation in the local economy was very clear and, at the same time, that this solution is a kind of first aid measure. We will certainly have to look at this broad package again in the course of this parliamentary term. I will take, for example, what Mr Juvonen said during that debate when it did not have the opportunity to comment immediately: He brought up access to the doctor. Well, that is not at the heart of this debate either, but I would now like to correct his point of view. Such a multi-professional team, a multi-professional team, is in no way in conflict with whether patients should get to a doctor quickly or not. I have my own experience that with a good doctor and nurse’s partner we can do so much to make health centres more efficient that it is the right model. I assume, then, that if we had only talked about getting a doctor, perhaps Mrs Juvonen would have criticised the fact that we are not talking about being a nurse at all. But now this criticism was made the other way around. Well, the second thing he raised was this question of how to be a nurse. There is a very clear line here, which means that next year a law will come into force which will be binding, but it will allow a transitional period until 2023 under certain clearly defined conditions, and that 5 million is intended for a situation where there are still some units which do not even realise the 0.5. These are just a commentary on the two issues raised in the debate. More generally, I would like to say that, now that I am in two committees, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and the Committee on Administration, they differ in such a way that, in the Administrative Committee, we have had a very profound opportunity to catch up with certain activities, such as the police and the Border Guard, because they are state-specific activities financed by this yellow budget book, but I would point out that the entire budget of the Border Guard is the same as that of the HUS Children's Clinic and that the entire budget of the police is the same as that of the City of Espoo's Social Affairs and Health Department, and in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health we have a total of over 20 billion, which is in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u145	Mr President! It has been said here that the Kiki agreement would have been negative for municipalities alone. That is not really the case. As you well know, the Kiki agreement cut the holiday money on the public side by 30%. It was savings in the wage bill of the municipalities. In addition, employer contributions were transferred from employers to employees, and it also reduced the wage costs of municipalities — municipalities and joint municipal boards, the whole local government and the state. This means that the Kiki agreement was a relief for the municipalities. There won't be any more of this next year. It ends at the end of this year, so the holiday money will be paid in full next summer. Well, as far as employers' contributions are concerned, you don't know exactly what's going to happen, but that's what's happening. So the Kiki agreement was also a relief for the economy. Then it has been said here that this 237 million would be new money for municipalities. No, it's not. It is the compensation for one-off expenditure resulting from the Kiki agreement. If this were not given to municipalities, the municipalities would have had to pay twice this EUR 237 million, so this is not new money in that sense. Moreover, with that 1.1 billion increase in the state budget next year in the municipalities' share, there is no new money for municipalities either, in the sense that, firstly, 312 million is compensation for tax losses, which means that it is decided here that tax changes will be made which will cost municipalities 312 million tax revenues and will be compensated by the state. This is what needs to be done, but it is not new money. Then the holiday allowance cut in the Kiky agreement will be replaced, i.e. EUR 285 million, because next summer municipalities and joint municipal authorities will pay the holiday money in full. It will be a hundred per cent cost, then a central government contribution to the municipalities, and it will be replaced in this way. There'll be no light. Then an index check for the rise in the cost level of basic services is made: prices have risen and municipalities have increased spending, and they will account for a central government share of 166 million. A statutory cost-sharing check will then be carried out on the basis of a change in cost-sharing over the past years. The municipalities will get 102 million more. There is no new money either, but compensation for the costs which have been incurred and to which the municipalities have not yet received a State contribution. And then the changes in population make a small amount. In other words, overall, there is virtually no reduction in the size of the 1.1 billion local government finances at all — very marginally. This is exactly what we must do to replace these, but we must certainly not give the view that they are new money, and certainly not this which is now being transferred from next year to this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u146	President! However, I would like Mr Kankaanniemi to see it as a good thing that, unlike the previous government, this is not the time to cut. And it is also necessary for the government to be committed, for example, to the fact that if new tasks are given to municipalities, they will all be compensated 100%. These are very important principles, and I believe and hope that Mr Kankaanniemi will also enjoy them. On the other hand, I know that in the next speech, the chairman of the municipal section, Tarja Filatov, will present some figures on these state-owned relations. He's got a good graphic over there. I do not have it, but you will hear more about it in the next speech. When Mr Kankaanniemi mentioned the Kiki Agreement and the municipalities, we must be sorry that it was any way at all for the municipalities, I would say quite frankly that we cannot forget what it did to the municipal workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u151	Mr President! Congressman Kankaanniemi spoke of new and old money. Whether it is new or old money or compensation, however, the fact is that the state’s action in relation to the local government finances next year will be positive. In other words, more money will come from there in relation to what is currently there, while this year the state's action will be strongly negative. I believe that this is the big change that is worth noting — but it will not save the local economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u156	Mr President! A lot has been said about the euro here, and we as legislators must talk about it in this Chamber. I myself am a municipal decision-maker at municipal level as chairman of the council as well as at provincial level, and I understand the pain that is currently experienced in municipalities. I myself have been making budgets, and I was just setting up an economic and future working group in my own municipality, and every stone will certainly be turned into something to move forward in that municipal economy. As a matter of fact, it's no surprise to me that the Coalition Party disappeared from this hall. Somehow I have always had the impression that in the interests of the Coalition Party it is not always the existence of an independent municipal unit, but perhaps larger municipal units are more important to them. In fact I feel strongly, and also our party center feels that the municipality is much more than this kind of legal unit. The municipality is a community of people, it is a cornerstone of democracy, it is a promoter of vitality, together with local actors, and cooperation between municipalities and businesses is, in fact, the key to the success of the regions. The stronger the municipalities, the stronger the provinces will be in the future. In the city centre, municipalities are not just for the provision of services. Of course, the important task of the municipality is to provide services to residents. In the city centre, municipalities are also an important link between citizens. In the city centre, municipalities are the home of people. I am confident that in this government, where we sit, strong municipalities of the future will also be promoted.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u157	Mr President! It's really great that the person who gives home help gets that parking license. We have advocated it, we warmly support it and we hope that it will come into force quickly. But then about this productivity: This may solve a small number of problems which are particularly serious in small municipalities, mainly in large cities but not nationally. That was yesterday I read municipal news from Kangasniemi County in Central Finland — it is a different constituency — from last Monday evening, and it was decided to report on the closure of village schools by the end of this year. There the municipal board made a proposal for a substantial increase in all tax rates from the beginning of next year and decided to start negotiations with the entire staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u160	Mr President! The central objective of the coalition policy is that in the municipalities, in every Finnish municipality, things are so that the basic services that are important to people can be arranged: education, early childhood education, care for the elderly and health services. Looking at the local government finances now, we can see how quickly the economy can deteriorate. It is truly worrying that the government does not have a credible programme of balancing state finances, achieving employment objectives. When you look at the problems of local government finances, the big thing is that there is a lot of unemployment and that the reform of social welfare and health care has not been completed. It is now important that action is taken instead of waiting. I share the concern expressed by officials from the Ministry of Finance that there are no effective employment measures. There's a lot of good and beautiful in the government program. More nurses have been promised, but what's the situation? In the real world, negotiations meet thousands of nurses. I would like to see clarification now, not only on this economic line and on the employment line, but also on social and health policy. Here, Mrs Filatov really well pointed out that we need to reform our activities in social and health care, to increase our effectiveness so that we have the resources to deal with every person. I was very pleased to see this social welfare and health center program. Indeed, at the press conference, Minister Kiuru promised that a thousand doctors would come, and he said that there was $70 million to go to the airport. Mr President, he said: ‘Someone who does not pay all the doctors who can be tempted to join in,so do you? Yes, it is as it is here.” So said Minister Kiuru. But after being asked and specified by a ministry official, it is stated that this money cannot even hire a doctor, but this will be for development. On and on, then, this is just one example, there will be good promises and good goals from the government, but when you look at it, the reality will be quite different. Now that there are representatives of the government parties here, I would like you to raise the question of how these objectives can be achieved with regard to new doctors and indeed with regard to the necessary nurses, because when I look at this budget book for myself,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u161	Mr President! I myself was in the City Board of Tampere for a couple of years and still a delegate, and I have to say that Tampere, in part, is also in crisis and is in debt at the moment. One of the reasons why this has not yet been addressed is, of course, this harmful immigration policy, which is being pursued in Finland, because it will then of course be transferred to municipalities, because certain parts of the city will also be filled with immigrants' children in Tampere and then there will be a need to build a daycare centre, school and all that, and it will also burden Tampere. That it is partly due to it, at least in Tampere. Then Tampere also has self-inflicted headaches, i.e. such completely intellectual investments. We build a steering wheel and a walking and cycling centre, and the city is completely torn open and then costs too much in the short term and so on. Neighbouring Ylöjärvi reduces municipal tax at the same time that Tampere raises, so this is not a curse like that. They do things right there, and then they do things wrong in Tampere. Tampere also has this kind of terribly strong or thick bureaucracy, could say shelters, in some way probably political shelters or politics-related. There is a Carbon-neutral Tampere coffee group, a Sustainable Tampere coffee group and this kind of thing, so that time like unnecessary bureaucracy, and quite often there are former politicians sitting. That at least Tampere has a place to look in the mirror. After all, we have a Social Democratic Mayor, and that obviously means that economics is not the first area of expertise.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u164	Mr President! This became interesting when I felt that the speech was a little different there in Tampere. If I am not very mistaken, then the Finns have been involved in the mayor coalition and together with us have made this year's budget and at least have not yet resigned from this mayor coalition in Tampere when we approve the future budget. Of course, we are currently discussing what the lines of action are there and, of course, the debate is allowed. Since the mayor is quite appreciated, in many respects credibility and parties, regardless of social prestige or such a measure of appreciation, I wonder very much and would not quite sign that knowledge is not found there. At least there's a lot of co-operation, as we've found so far. In that sense, I have been terribly happy, President, and I agree with this debate in this Chamber, that politics is a choice of values. After all, we have made and, hopefully, making such a choice of values there that we did not, for example, enlarge the group sizes of children in schools or day-care centres, and that is what we have done. But, President, this was not the original thing. Of course, this was actually a bit of a response to the previous one. President! We have just heard the speaker from the Assembly, but unfortunately it was still completely unclear what we were asking at the outset, at the very beginning of the debate, that what is the group's own line. So, Mr President, I just have to say that everyone understands: at the same time, there is concern about the deficit and, at the same time, tax cuts are required. After all, you have demanded more than the government does. You have wanted income tax reductions that are focused on everyone. It is not enough for you to have low and middle incomes, as I think the government is doing right now. And I remembered that last week, for example, Mr Heinonen said that the car tax had to be abolished completely and that there had to be a huge amount of additional tax reductions. At the same time, you are concerned about the deficit. But then, when we ask whether or not this means what you did last season, whether you cut out education or cut people's basic security, you don't really get that answer. In other words, when we talk about the economy, which Mr Zyskowicz himself understands, perhaps then he could have explained this equation here when he understands the economy, that how is this possible, at the same time, a hat trick is being carried out in which the deficit is reduced and taxes are reduced without cutting costs. Then, on the other hand, perhaps in your alternative budget we will see dynamic effects or other,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u165	Mr President! Unlike Mr Vallin himself, I have not coffeed in these coffee shops in municipal politics, and that is why I do not know the inside information. But when I still live in Tampere, I will also actively follow its situation and policy and correct a few problems in the analysis when you used Tampere as an example of national development. Firstly, the comprehensive impact of immigration on international research from the American continent to Asia is either neutral or positive to public finances — i.e. neutral or positive — and if the problem is now seen in this situation of birth rate as the need to build more day-care centres in a city, I wonder very much. I would be happy to see that we should spend more money building kindergartens. It is recalled, however, that in Tampere, compared to other large cities, the proportion of immigrants is relatively low, and we should be a little concerned about that in this situation. The analysis also shows that the economic differences between Ylöjärvi and Tampere are due to the political choices made by the two municipalities, but at least half-way, bearing in mind that, on the one hand, it is clearly a job-plus city and, on the other hand, a suburb with the highest incomes. It is true, of course, that Ylöjärvi has made every effort to attract high-income families and residents through its land policy and partly through other policies. However, first of all, the analysis of these two municipalities is economically separate when one is employed and the other is visited by the rich to live there, so that there is no need to go to the more busy blocks of flats, is already misleading in itself, and then the examination of the economic processes taking place there solely through the decision of the municipality, or even primarily through the decision of the municipality, is very misleading when the financial links are as close as they are between the two municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u166	Mr President! What is the line of the Coalition Party? The coalition line is the line of work, and I must say that the policy of the government is cold and heartless when you transfer the means already known to increase employment to the future. You're talking about maybe in a year you'll be making these decisions. When you look at this book, there are quite a lot of proposals here which, on the contrary, reduce employment. For example, cutting the household allowance makes it difficult for older people to live and reduce jobs, and it certainly does not increase employment, perhaps the informal economy. I wonder why it wasn't until a year from now. I just had a group of children visiting here, and one child said why you don't do anything, my father and my mother don't have a job. I didn't have the heart to say that it wasn't until a year later. The Assembly's parliamentary group presented a proposal which had a verifiable figure of 30000 jobs plus another 30,000 jobs, which is very likely to result in 60,000 new jobs if those decisions were taken. I very much hope that you will now march back to the House of Regulation and make these decisions now and not possibly in the future. What's in our alternative budget? We are working on it, and that is something we will certainly be able to discuss here, Mr Viitanen. Clearly, we are not going to increase the tax burden on employees. A large proportion of employees are subject to wage taxes. It also applies to pensioners who pay income tax. I think this is wrong. In this situation, hardworking Finns should not be vaccinated any more than what is now being done. Mr President! At the end of the day I say that, although I have been working as a Member of Parliament for quite many years, it is very difficult for me to follow the line of government. Publicly, ministers are arguing about whether taxes are being tightened or whether increases in this budget are being cut in next year's budget. The ministers are already suspicious and do not believe that your possible employment measures will be effective, and we are now making cut lists and tax evasion lists. I would also like you to march back to the Regent House and the Prime Minister to take the lead and decide whether you will cut these expenses in the future or increase taxes, or whether it would be better if you were to take action to create new jobs, take the line of work that the parliamentary group in the Coalition Party supports and does. Make sure there are jobs. You don't have to tighten your taxes. You don't have to cut people off.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u167	Mr President! If so, I will recall four years ago when the new government started and made the first amending budget — guess, Mr Sarkomaa, how many employment measures was there? There were exactly zero of them. Zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, There were as many as zero of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u170	President! I have a little disagreement with this when it was said that in Tampere this immigration is a wealth. We also made it a council initiative to investigate the costs of this non-working immigration in Tampere, but it was not wanted to be done. I have received such a signal from schools — even the deputy mayor, who is a social democrat, by the way — that the spiritual burden of teachers is growing and the schools are becoming more troubled all the time. Tampere has such a statistical fact that Tampere is a city of migration gain, but in a certain age group it has been a city of migration loss. I don't know the last statistics, but in the families of young children, Tampere has had a migration loss, which means that there have been changes in neighbouring municipalities, i.e. such working, good taxpayers move to neighbouring municipalities or somewhere else – for example, those who have graduated from schools also move to the capital region very much. Then, when we talked about this, that we are in that coalition: we have given the mayor a little bit of municipal policy, two years to correct this economic situation, but we have not wanted to tackle it properly, and now we disagree with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u171	Mr President! I don't want to look back on old people, who did what he did and when he did, but I want to look a little to the future. I am very interested — I am now in the Salo City Council itself, and I am now in the second and third mandates — in these project companies, which are justified for these high-speed rail links. We're going to have a deficit of about 20 million or so now, and I'd like to know where these municipalities next to the track, if they're connected to that project company, then take that money. Do they owe you more money? I mean, there's gonna be a lot of contact from the locals about how this thing is going to go: will schools and other services be shut down, and will there be more debt to get rail connections by 2030? This is what I'm so interested in. I also understand that there will probably not be an answer to this question today, but I am very interested in where the money comes from in the municipalities, which are, for example, along these future rail links and are coming to those project companies. — That is all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u172	Mr. Speaker! To Mr Viitanen, the results are quite different from what you are talking about.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u177	Mr President! The assembly has no secret love, but if we love something and work for something, it is a society in which everyone has the opportunity to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u186	Mr President! There has been a good discussion on the municipal economy and many related issues. Even as a municipal decision-maker, I share the same concerns about the finances of municipalities that have been raised here. This has now been well described in various speeches about how complex the whole is when we talk about the finances of municipalities and the state. It is a very topical issue, for example, of our birth rate, the change in the age structure and social and health services, and especially when we talk about the finances of municipalities, we have rightly paid attention to our employment policy. The increase in employment will also depend on the expenditure increases planned by our government. In its programme, the government is committed to what is very important for us in the centre, that the government does not exclude any means of employment from its range of means, but is very open to examining, planning and preparing ways of ensuring that the employment rate is as high as possible. As Mr Kankaanniemi well pointed out, there are really 140 000 new jobs in the last period. Not many people then believed in that goal, and even then, at the beginning of the reign, the government did not have all those means at its disposal and announced, but they were made and prepared in peace. The previous government may sometimes be a little unwarranted, but I am sure it was sometimes justifiably criticised for perhaps being too quick to prepare, and now it seems that we are trying to rush it quickly, quickly. We really want to prepare these measures for employment in peace, and they will be in addition to the action presented by 25 Haraka. We in the centre keep it quite clear that they are not enough; we need more and they are coming. I fully agree that employment needs to be increased, both for local government finances and for central government finances, and I am particularly pleased that the government has given a very positive signal to our entrepreneurs in its programme and also in this budget, that enterprise and enterprise continue to pay off.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u187	Mr President! Unfortunately, Mr. Vallin left. I would've told him how we were doing at Neckila. That would have been very important information in this debate, and although we do not look good next year with regard to the budget, I do not blame the mayor for it or his political background. I think it is the peak of tastelessness here in Parliament to take the political background of the mayor or mayor when, however, the municipality is working together on the budget. Perhaps it is the spirit of this time that politics here is being tried to make a fingernail of anything. Of course, it is good to visit old memories, but I could tell Mr Sarkomaa when you said that there has never been such a mess of social media as it is now: this government is now giving the situation... During the last term of government, there were porridges and porridges confused when, in the harmonious situation, which was previously agreed before the elections, we agreed that we should proceed with one parliamentary preparation, the two party chairmen made the deal that we would bring in the regional legislation, when, I would say, the porridge and the vellets were mixed up and we could not agree on that. Who says that anyone was in four- limb braking, I leave it to myself — I believe that there were these in the Constitutional Committee and in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, who then tried to get to the finish line after the criticism that the Constitutional Committee gave to the exercises that the government brought to the House for consideration. Perhaps it could be said to those little girls and boys that, on a government proposal, Parliament will decide that even those unemployed who may not now have direct access to employment on the private or municipal side, through pay subsidies, we will allow a faster, better and easier way of settling into work and bringing their earnings home to the well-being of their children. With regard to the subjective day care right, it can be said that unemployed fathers and mothers are now given the opportunity to participate in job-seeking so that both parents can actively apply for work while the children are in day care and thus also receive pre-school education, which means that although the parents have less resources, the children are still taken care of. I would say that it is actually good for them to start the debate when talking to these small Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u188	Mr President! Representative Kankaanniemi here called for statistical literacy, and I could not agree more. We could start with the employment statistics which Mr Kankaanniemi has already examined here. It is a basic understanding that, in the light of employment statistics, one cannot directly assess the actions of an individual government, because employment statistics are more influenced by the activities of a particular government, such as international economic trends and different cultural and social factors. In fact, the evaluation of government activities, which in themselves can be extremely important and, in the long term, lead to good or bad development, must be based on measures other than general employment statistics, particularly in the big picture. To Mr Sarkomaa, I would say that I am very happy that I have not had to tell any of the unemployed children whom I have met quite a bit that I have reduced his right to day care or to receive food in a day-care centre as well as other children, that I have not had to tell him that I have cut his family’s already low income and thus made the financial situation difficult, that I have not had to tell him that I have been systematically involved in reducing his study opportunities, that he can develop for what he wants, and that he can do what he is capable of. That makes me so happy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u189	Mr President! After all, there has been a great deal of discussion here about the increase in employment, and I fully agree with what Mr Kontula said back there, that it is difficult to assess what is actually the action of any government. But if you think that employment has improved over the last few years — and it is a good end result — but at the same time income support expenditure has also increased, then we are actually in a rather strange equation. We generally seek to improve employment in order to reduce poverty and reduce low incomes, but at the same time as we have improved employment, we also have an increase in income support expenditure. And if we think about employment from the point of view of incentives traps, for example, then income support is the worst place to go because it is the hardest place to get out. That is why I think it is important to assess the benefit side, for example, and it is precisely the government that these small increases, for example, the increase in labour market support, will make it possible to get at least a few people out of the income support window and thus make it easier to find employment. Otherwise, this whole service process will be aimed at this, and these big social security reform projects, which are just coming up. When we talk about whether employment measures are already in place, let us say one example: raising the age limit for additional days of unemployment benefit. Etla, for example, estimates that it has an employment impact of about 10,000 people. The Centre for Pensions has been a little more cautious, but it is clear that it will have the employment impact of thousands of people. And that decision already exists, and it has also been made there in cooperation with the three sides. Mr Kankaanniemi doubted that the trio could become anything to improve employment, but this is one example of the fact that a contractual society can function if it is to work, but it requires active work from the government. Not by the fact that the triad becomes a two-position, but by the fact that the government has a clear will to do so and that it takes the process forward, but not by force from outside alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u190	Mr President! Yes, that was an excellent speech by Mrs. Filatov ahead of us. It certainly told of the strength of Finnish society, which is based on reconciliation, mutual trust, and together on moving things forward. I really appreciate those points of view. I do have to take the floor, Mr Kontula. In my own speech, I had thought about thinking a little bit about what we could really answer to that little girl or little boy, because I am sure we all agree exactly about that in this Chamber, and we share the concern that we have too many unemployed people. We must get people jobs, and that is what we all want. But, indeed, if the means are so different that the assembly would provide additional stick and cut back on unemployment and income support, then it does not fit my values in any way, because I also see that if, with the same hand, we weaken the position of people with low incomes, it is not only humanly very wrong, President, but it is also very unwise from an economic point of view, if you could say so, because at the same time we are eating up purchasing power, and it is certainly not very good for the wheels of the economy. That is why I am quite pleased that, for example, the government has now opted for the line in its tax policy that tax reductions are being made and clearly emphasised specifically for people with low incomes, employees, pensioners and also beneficiaries of benefits, and that tax reductions so familiar from the past period are being left a little further away from thinking, for example, for the most fortunate. After all, there were all kinds of millions of inheritance tax cuts, forest gift reductions, and all that, and there seemed to be a lot of money for that at the time. President! On this basis, I would really like to raise the hat in that regard to Mr Sarkomaa, although we disagree on the points of view that, even though the whole coalition has disappeared from here, you have come bravely to the Chamber and have now defended your views. What we still lacked and what we will be asking for in the future was the answer to what the equation is that at the same time the deficit is being criticised and taxes are being reduced and not allowed to tell us what is being cut off. Unfortunately, this remained open in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u191	Mr President! Two more points for this long debate: Mr Kankaanniemi, I think you have taken a very good speech some time ago, where you, as an experienced expert in local government finances, identified this one point and so on a billion, which is now being added to the state contribution. Of course, you are also familiar with this issue, which is a transfer from next year to this year. But there is one detail I would like to say — I assume and know that you know this too, but I would like to point that out here. Next year alone will not be the year when the impact of kiky will cease and bring additional expenditure to the municipalities, but next summer we will have to finance this year's accounts for nine months, that is to say during these accumulation months, and it is also particularly right that next year we should transfer certain revenue from the state to the municipalities now, because this artistic site is in fact going to be quite intense for this year. That is what I wanted to say to you. I would also like, as Mr Viitanen has just done, to join the group that I thought very worthy of the speech that Mr Kontula has just made. I think it was a good thing that this part of the international economic cycle was brought up here. I myself am from the constituency of Varsinais-Suomi, and if we now look at the economic boom on the west coast, the good development that has been there and which is largely based on the export industry — the shipyards, the car industry — then everyone understands that it is not the creation of a kiky agreement or the solutions of the previous government. Following the 2009 international financial crisis, the order book of all world shipyards collapsed. According to the information I received, the world shipyards had a total of two or three ships on order. Since the international economy entered a strong boom, the fact that we had that knowledge and that network and had not been able to destroy them in those difficult years gave us the power to strike again. The Kiki deal didn't solve that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u192	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Lindén, for those recognitions and also for this clarification. That was precisely the case with the holiday money. To this last point, namely the impact of the Kiki Agreement on shipyards, as elsewhere, for example: yes, I would say that it had quite an impact, but not the only one, of course, but it is made up of many different parts. As it also had an impact on the local government finances, which I mentioned earlier. Mr President! I am a strong supporter of the contractual society. That is quite clear. For example, in the past decades this country has been built on a triangular scale with great intensity and effectiveness. But now that the crisis is taking place — I can say that there is a crisis, when yesterday, for example, we listened to the Minister for Finance in that House, and the situation is serious — it cannot be expected that solutions will be developed in the trio, slowly and perhaps unsuccessfully, which could be done immediately in order to improve employment. These solutions can be found on the working life side. There is no need for a stick, but there is a need for strong measures, and the people have given its mandate to Parliament and Parliament to the government, and it must lead. Its highest flag must be in the boardroom and not in the lobby of social partners or others who are lobbying for the interests of certain circles — but in cooperation, that is clear. You used the unemployment figures, Mr Kontula and Mr Filatov, or Mrs Viitanen, quite deliberately. Even this government has certain numbers of people who should be able to work. Why do you say that they are of no importance and yet you use them in every speech, saying that the government's objective is 75%, which means so and so many? I think that for every individual, every unemployed person, that access to employment is extremely valuable,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u195	Mr President! I have decided that when the gas tax comes into the debate from the Finns, I will not just be silent, but I will ask and remind you that when the Finns themselves were in the government, they raised the gas tax. There the Finns voted in favour of raising the gas tax, period. And there's no point in trying to talk these things into second place. When the Finns of Peru were in the government, they accepted a tax solution whereby heating costs were raised and real estate taxes were raised and these taxes were made, which burden the small person, with the difference, Mr Kankaanniemi — the difference — that you also cut social benefits from small people at the same time. At least this government improves them, improves basic security, and also gives relief, for example, to the unemployed through this. So there is a small difference here, and I do not forget that the Finns voted in favour of an increase in the gas tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u197	Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u198	Mr President! At the end of the day, I want to say: Congressman Viitanen, be patient. The opposition's alternative budget is coming to the Chamber for discussion.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u202	Mr President! Congressman Kankaanniemi, you commented on the reading of the statistics, so I responded to the reading of the statistics. I myself do not use the employment rate to describe the success or failure of any government action. If others do that, there is nothing I can do about it, and that is exactly what the ability to read statistics would probably be in order. That is different from the fact that the government's objective is to increase the employment rate. That is different from measuring the success of the government in terms of employment. With regard to this budget for next year, it will compensate the low-income people for the increase in equal taxes with other tax solutions. The net impact of government activities on low incomes is a plus. It is not the low income, as is the high income, that is not relevant where the taxes are paid, but the relevant question is how much money is left in hand. And according to the impact assessments of this government’s first budget, more remains in hand than was left earlier. The budget must also reduce income disparities, but it must be limited. Mr Sarkomaa, the sign of the impact of the budget on employment is currently unclear, according to experts. We don't know if it's a minus or a plus. There are likely to be measures that undermine employment and are likely to improve employment. Which ones will win, I'm sure you'll find out in that spring. As far as employment is concerned, we are unable at this stage to make assessments that are in any way valid and sustainable. We'll have to wait a few more months.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u203	Mr President! I thought I was not going to take part in this debate, but I wanted to say a few words, however, when Mr Sarkomaa has strongly questioned the line of work of the Social Democrats and also the government. This government is, above all, on the line of work, and our priority is that we are going to intervene and strengthen the structures of working life. This government has created, among other things, a programme of 25 measures, which is currently under heavy work in the Ministry, and proposals are already coming to Parliament this autumn. The work of the Coalition Party can be interpreted from the last period in such a way that the government created uncertainty in the labour market through a wide range of measures. It also reduced unemployment security for the unemployed and made it more difficult for students by reducing the social security of students and also drove them into the labour market to cope with their own livelihoods. Thus, the whole, could you say, knowledge was weakened, the safety of working life was reduced, livelihoods were reduced. Just as Mr Filatov said, at the same time as the general international employment situation strengthened and employment in Finland also improved, which was a very good thing, these government measures led to a deterioration in the income of the unemployed and an increase in the number of income support customers. This affected not only the unemployed themselves, but also their families, and it can be said that from the point of view of social security, we have a world that we in this government must tackle strongly now, and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u204	Mr President! Just a few more words for this interesting debate. It has now become very clear that this government is doing a small human policy that strengthens the livelihoods and living conditions of people with low incomes and also middle incomes in many ways. It must also be noted that we are strengthening various services and they are very important and important to many people. Now we are making tax reliefs for those on low and medium incomes, and we are also improving benefits. In this area of employment, which has been well discussed here, it is also quite true that we currently have a lot of work that cannot be found. Therefore, when we think of things a little longer in the longer term, rather than just a year or two or one parliamentary term, but in the longer, even decades, it is particularly important that the government improves education and research in many ways. It will be visible in our working life. For example, there is a lot of work in my home town of Oulu that is currently not a factor, and there are solutions to this in education. The fact that the government is now preparing many employment measures and preparing them in peace is an excellent thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u205	Mr President! To this debate on employment, I myself will be careful not to use the employment rate as a measure any more today, because we know that our working life structures are changing rapidly. For example, if you look at the last four years, then we had a phase when the employment rate had already risen sharply, and the previous government then said that it was a good result and it is now as it has been achieved. At the same time, however, the number of hours worked had decreased, and yet those hours worked are additional work. In other words, these indicators often run in such a way that if you do not know what a meter is measuring, it can also be misused in political debate. I would therefore like this government to have one balance assessed — I am not saying that it is, but that it would be estimated — whether the impact of the employment rate, as a macro-economic measure, is as relevant as it was in the past, because we have undergone major changes in our working life. We still have about 70% of workers in a permanent, permanent employment relationship, but there has been more fragmentation within its 30 fragmented per cent, and this means that, in fact, the number of people employed is no longer as good as it has ever been in the national economy. For example, according to Professor Matti Pohjola’s survey, two thirds of Finland’s economic growth since 1860 – i.e. already long-term, long-term, but acceleratedly now – has been generated by ideas, technologies and innovations and one third of education. In other words, education plays a major role alongside innovation policy, and both are the focus of this government. But it is not possible to calculate the exact effect on employment, as has been said here. But we know that they have a positive impact on employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u206	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 2/2019 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u207	Mr President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has discussed the activity report of Kela's delegates for 2018. In the background, according to the Act on the Social Insurance Institution, it is the responsibility of the delegates appointed by Parliament to supervise the administration and functioning of the Social Insurance Institution, also taking into account the quality and availability of the services of the Social Insurance Institution. It is also up to the delegates to report annually to Parliament on their activities. That is what we are dealing with right now. The benefit expenditure on social security managed by Kela amounted to EUR 14.87 billion last year. According to the report, the main risks identified in Kela's operations last year were the longer processing of legislation, the lack of operational capacity in the event of cyber and information security threats, and the uncertainty of funding in benefits and operating costs. In the report of the delegates, the committee drew particular attention to Kela's customer service, staff, acquisition costs, the role of Kela in reforming social security and the reform of Kela's administration. Let me briefly go over these elements. At the end of 2018, Kela had 161 service points and 138 service points. Kela replaced 16 service points with new kinds of services last year and opened one new service point. The purpose of the change was to allocate resources to new service channels and to increase the personal advice service to customers who needed it. The number of contacts between telephone services and service points decreased slightly from the previous year. However, the number of transactions was exceptionally high in the previous year mainly due to the Kela transfer of basic income support. The committee still considers it important that customer service takes account of different customer groups and that the service is equal. In addition to remote communication, a network of services enabling personal contact must be sufficient. At the end of 2018, there were 7732 employees working in Kela, which is 456 person-years more than one year earlier. The most significant reason for the addition is the transfer of basic income support to Kela. In 2018, Kela's operations were affected by a significant increase in basic income support applications and an increase in the workload caused by the active model of unemployment security. The basic income support has committed a large number of human resources, allowing flexibility in the treatment of other benefits according to the number of applications for basic income support, in such a way that the processing periods for other applications for benefits have occasionally increased. According to a report received by the committee, the congested work situation put a particular strain on staff in customer and benefit services and caused weariness and sick leave. However, the committee welcomes the fact that the key figures for the well-being of Kela's employees have been reversed. In the view of the Committee, it is necessary to monitor the development of occupational well-being and safety continuously. According to the Government Programme, the transition to the registration procedure will be investigated in certain services that Kela is now tendering for. For example, interpretation services for disabled persons, taxi rides replaced by Kela and rehabilitation therapy contracts have been on the agenda at the meetings of the delegates due to the high level of criticism directed at them. In practice, the registration procedure would mean that service providers meeting the criteria set by Kela would be registered in Kela and those entitled to the service would be able to choose the service provider. According to the Government Programme, the operation of Kela and municipal transport services during the new taxi law is also to be evaluated and the necessary changes made. The committee attaches great importance to the progress of the reports. The Committee notes that Kela has an important role to play in planning, preparing and implementing social security reform. During the reporting year Kela participated, among other things, in the work of the Working Group on Inequality and the Government Action Project, which is to be used in the reform of social security. The Committee considers it important that the development of Kela's activities should also be constantly focused on the possibilities of dismantling unnecessary bureaucracy. The committee attaches importance to the supervision and guidance of Kela, as well as to the work on Kela's status and internal jurisdictional relations. The committee considers it important that changes in legislation aimed at the development and renewal of Kela's activities should be brought before Parliament as soon as possible. Kela’s delegates have proposed the setting up of a parliamentary working party. It should be noted that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, in its report on the 2016 Report, has already considered it justified the establishment of a broad-based parliamentary working group to examine the need for amendments to the Act on the Social Insurance Institution. As chairman of the committee, there have been very many positive contributions to the development and renewal of Kela's activities in recent years. Mr President! The committee's report on the Kela delegation's report last year is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u208	Mr President! Kela's Annual Report describes and evaluates Kela's activities for 2018. I am not going to interfere with anything other than the competition for demanding medical rehabilitation and therapy, which was dealt with very much during that period. And while I am there as a delegate of Kela, this is something that I would like to raise here in Parliament as well. In 2018 and in spring 2019, we Kela delegates closely monitored the competition for different services in Kela and especially the competition for therapists and rehabilitation. Competition caused problems in access to therapy and medical rehabilitation for both children, young people and adults. The competition caused fear and anxiety for the sick, disabled and their families. As a result, Kela carried out a reassessment and improved the criteria for competitive tendering for children and young people, but there were still a lot of problems with the medical rehabilitation and therapy of adults with severe disabilities. According to Kela's calculations, approximately 3500 persons who had to be rehabilitated had to change service providers. It was estimated that some 400 therapy companies were excluded, whose future also seemed uncertain. I was contacted by many people who could be rehabilitated at the time. They were very disappointed because they had been satisfied with long-term, good, high-quality and effective therapy, and now this cooperation and therapy relationship were broken off. Since then, I have been very happy to see and read that Kela is now experimenting with the registration procedure in rehabilitation services, which would eliminate these problems. I think it is very important that we look into the transition to the registration procedure for rehabilitation and therapy services that Kela has put forward in competition. The main objective of the registration procedure is to obtain the best therapy and rehabilitation for the person undergoing rehabilitation. When therapy is of high quality, systematic and long-term, this also enables service providers to develop services for customized rehabilitation. Service provider and therapist know their customers, so they and the customer are able to implement an identified service and see what therapy and rehabilitation are effective and improve health and well-being. In this way, everyone will benefit. Mr President! I have also received several telephone calls as well as emails in situations where Kela has rejected rehabilitation and therapy of a severely disabled and severely ill person, which is why it has been argued that it is not enough to get rehabilitation that rehabilitation only maintains the ability of a disabled person or a sick person to function, but that it must improve it in all cases and situations. This is just not possible in all respects for customers and people. In my opinion, Kela's argument is neither fair nor acceptable. When a person becomes seriously ill and has a serious, in some cases progressive disease, therapy and rehabilitation can help him to exercise muscle fitness, balance and overall functioning. This is of great importance to people’s daily lives and well-being. Maintenance rehabilitation helps and enables people to independently care for their own hygiene, toilet visits, eating, dressing and so on. Yet, unfortunately, the disease can progress. There is nothing you can do about it, but rehabilitation improves the overall well-being of a person and supports the ability of a sick person to be self-sufficient and independent for as long as possible. This Kela must not belittle what is happening now, unfortunately. Kela must also accept the continuing importance of rehabilitation in the future, especially in situations where the progression or existence of an illness or injury cannot be affected. Mr President! Kela's Annual Report for 2018 is available at the reading of the Parliament. When we deal with the activity report, it is also important to look to the future. I am very pleased that the Rinte government has decided to invest in rehabilitation and thus also decided to reform the rehabilitation system on the basis of the proposals of the rehabilitation committee. The focus of its work will be specifically to enable seamless care systems and to improve and support human capacity. I strongly hope that the committee work will address the problems of rehabilitation and tendering in Kela and will also change Kela's guidelines on rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u209	Mr President! Quite often politicians are accused of having an upper-level debate and lack of concreteness. This time I would see that the report describes in a very good and very concrete way the activities carried out by Kela's Board of Governors and Kela during the last reference period. Instead, I would like to see more consideration at the top level of the discussion on Kela, the more general discussion on the role of Kela in this society and on the basis of what values we should develop Kela. Why? Because I personally see that Kela and the role of Kela in this society should be considered from the point of view of social stability and public confidence. Kela may have the largest contact surface with all public authorities in those social groups that have lost confidence in the system and which should make us particularly concerned. In addition, Kela's decisions almost without exception relate to fundamental human rights and are therefore more important than those of many other authorities. I would also like to stress this confidence point because it is quite obvious in Kela that the biggest problems, both in the implementation of fundamental rights, in the smooth granting of benefits and in the red tape, relate to the smallest benefits, i.e. those groups of people whose economic situation is the weakest and where security is the most crucial. If this whole and its challenge to social stability and mutual trust are not recognised in this Chamber, I do not believe that we will be able to take this society in a more equal direction. In addition, and partly related to all three previous dimensions, Kela does not only share money or decisions, Kela also shares the experience of citizenship. And this experience is essentially linked to the question of respect, whether a person feels that he is a subject or a full member of the community in dealing with the authorities. I would argue that one of the main problems of our public administration system is that services to different social groups, to different social classes, treat people differently, convey a different position to people where their place in this society is. Nor will we be able to dismantle this as long as Kela's services and Kela's operations are not considered as part of a broader social context. We would have very simple ways in which we could at least ease the challenges I listed above. The Ombudsman has long used apologies in his own decisions as one such recommendation for action, and when we know that such standard letters are in use in Kela, why should we not be able to write in such a way that: Kela admits that it has made either a correction or an error following a complaint, adds that Kela also apologizes when it is known that when Kela makes a mistake, its consequences for the individual are significant. It would cost nothing, it would require little effort on anyone's part, and with this little reform we could significantly improve people's experience of one of our most important public authorities systems. A bigger and more expensive reform would be to guarantee sufficient resources for Kela to be able to provide comprehensive advice over time and geographically that people could actually understand the system they are dealing with. We are not even close to this at the moment. The waiting times for advice are unauthorized. If you want a face-to-face meeting with a Kela official, you may have to wait a week or two, which is a long time if it is a question of last resort benefits and basic security. There may also be ten - minute queues for telephone times. Geographically, the Kela network has been reduced and, when combined with this delay in making an appointment, it significantly reduces the accessibility of Kela services to people living in remote areas who have difficulty moving from it and who may not use the Internet. As a recent Kela delegate, I see that the council has a central forwarding role between the legislator and Kela. From this point of view, I would like Kela's delegates here in Parliament and elsewhere in their political activities to strongly promote the development of our legislation in such a direction that it is possible for Kela to carry out its duties with honour. By this I mean, for example, the simplification of legislation so that people can understand what is required of them and what the conditions for what benefits are. The government has made a number of entries in its programmes in this direction, but they have not yet been properly started. I'm looking forward to wrapping up my sleeves and getting to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u210	Mr President! The most important and central task of Kela is to really take care of the social security of Finnish residents and many Finns living abroad in different life situations. Kela's customers are all persons covered by Finnish social security. In its report, the committee draws attention, among other things, to the reform of social security and the role of Kela in it. It is valuable that the need for social security reform has been widely seen in our society and that the government has now decided to implement it. Our government's programme states that it is essential to improve the reliability, completeness and comprehensibility of the system. Our current social security system is very fragmented and, in certain circumstances, quite inflexible. Unfortunately, it is not able to take sufficient account of people’s different situations, and it is not always work-and-activity-incentive, but rather discouraging. Mr President! In its report, the committee mentions the most recent changes in the payment of income support. It has been mentioned in various contexts how the transfer of income support to Kela has made life easier and easier for many people, but there is also such feedback that the transfer of support to Kela has in some cases distanced decision-making from the person so that the specific needs of the citizen may have been more difficult to understand and take into account. Therefore, I consider it particularly important that Kela continues and further develops cooperation with municipalities. This Annual Report therefore states that ‘The co-operation with theagenciesconsistes with a view to improving the management of customer affairs,as Regular cooperation meetings are held with municipal social professionals.’ I consider this communication between Kela and the municipal social services to be particularly important, precisely in order to take account of the different needs of citizens. The system must always be flexible in such a way that it is able to take into account the fact that people’s life situations are very different and varied. At the heart of decision-making must always be man and his need for development. Social security will then be on a sustainable footing when it secures adequate livelihoods, social security, and then encourages work and participation and the construction of this society.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u211	Mr President! In addition to the delegates, the Parliament elects auditors for Kela. I have been one of Kela's auditors elected by Parliament for the past four years, and I can say that, based on the audit we have carried out, there is no particular comment on Kela's accounts or administration, but we have found and taken a position on a number of reports and dossiers inside Kela. First of all, we have drawn attention, among other things, to the dangerous work combinations that always exist in large organisations and have been told that they should not be found in Kela. We have also been going over the security issues mentioned by the chairman of the committee. Kela’s employees are faced with people with many kinds of problems, and there is, of course, a risk that even physical safety will be jeopardised. A lot of work has been done there to improve this situation, and last time we heard, for example, that queues are no longer practiced but that times are given in a different way, so that customers are received individually. With regard to telephone calls, I can say that there has been a switch to collect calls, and this has made it more effective. Of course, the use of the Internet has increased very much, but it has known problems that have been dealt with many times here in Parliament, so that not all people who have to deal with Kela have online capabilities. It is a matter of constant attention. Mr President! Two specific points have been raised: The other is the real estate administration of Kela, which should be considered. I myself have raised this issue there, and it should be developed. Kela is not a real estate management company as such, but it would require expertise. It might be wise for it to be considered there. At the last meeting, an even more important issue was raised, on which I asked for a record, which will then come forward, and it is a number of funds within Kela. The councilmen and the government could take a stand on that. For historical reasons they still exist there, many different funds, and they could be combined today. It would improve, clarify, and also clarify responsibilities and risks. At the same time, it might be wise for investments to do so. I would like this to be clarified in the context of the reform of the legislation. After all, governance is being reformed and we hope that it will move forward. Again, the problems that Kela’s staff are facing in that field are often those for which Kela is not guilty in any way, but those responsible, if you want to look for them now, will be found in the government and here in Parliament. There are rather complex laws here, which are difficult to interpret, and on the other hand, for example, with regard to the transfer of basic income support, and perhaps also with regard to the active model, new systems were created which were implemented on too fast a timetable. There was no time in Kela to deal properly with those reforms so that customers would have received their services flexibly as quickly as they are intended to receive them when people's basic benefits are at stake. The taxi reform, which was cut through here, is one of the factors that gave Kela a lot of reproach, but the main reason was probably the legislation and the way it was implemented, not so much in Kela. Of course, there are some aspects of Kela as well. In other words, such remarks or considerations need to be recorded, and here they will at least be recorded, and I hope that Kela's delegates will take these matters forward during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u212	Mr President! I am raising just a couple of things that I find important in the work report of the Kela delegates. I am talking mainly about staff and the availability of services and the quality of services. At the end of 2018, Kela was more than 7700 employees and there was a significant increase in the number of employees compared to 2017. This is explained by the transfer of basic income support to Kela and the huge amount of work that resulted in a crisis in Kela's operations, which took time to resolve and required more human resources than anticipated. It is notable that although unemployment fell, the same was not the case for applications that flowed to Kela. The number of applications continued to increase. The impact of the active model of unemployment security on the workload and the increase in the number of basic income support applications significantly increased the workload of the personnel. However, it is important to note that the well-being experience of staff has improved since the post-organisational transition. This could be considered a very good thing. With the increase in workload, it is important to continue to pay attention to the well-being of staff and the safety at work mentioned just now by Mr Kankaanniemi. Threatening situations are also commonplace in Kela, and this should not be the case. It is important that the working conditions of the personnel are in good condition, both in terms of resource and safety. However, the positive thing is that Kela is generally perceived as a good job. Well-being personnel play a key role in ensuring that Kela’s customers also receive the best service possible. The results of the customer feedback were also surprising. On a scale of 0 to 10, the average of customer feedback was 7.5, which could be considered good. 69% of applications are made online, but 30% still come in paper applications. I think it is important that different ways of dealing are maintained and that everyone should be able to deal with Kela in their own way. Good access to services and, above all, accessibility are important. In Kela, the problems of telephone services have been addressed and invested in by Kela's delegates in particular. More than 2 million calls are received a year. In particular, Kela can be improved in terms of ease of service and adequacy and clarity of access to information. It is important that services continue to take into account the needs of different customer groups and that services are equal for citizens. Even though Kela recognises several reform needs in terms of efficiency and ease of service, there is one thing that Kela seems to be better off than its reputation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u213	Mr President! It is the responsibility of the Social Security Institution to provide social security for citizens, but it also plays an important role in promoting equality and equality. Thousands of benefits and services are applied for daily from Kela, which makes the functioning organisation and staff adequacy absolutely essential. It is also important to secure the number and resources of staff, for example, because the processing times of applications can be completed within a reasonable period of time, because the problems in obtaining decisions and implementing them are precisely those that are reflected in the everyday lives of customers in a way that weakens them. Serious challenges include access to therapy and medical rehabilitation and competitive tendering. Last year many children and disabled people were left without the therapy, help and support they needed, and a familiar and safe therapist was left out of their everyday life. This should not happen again. Therefore, it is good that: Kela is now testing the registration procedure for rehabilitation and therapy services. It is important to continue developing Kela's data security and data protection and to ensure that personal service advice is also available to customers who need it. Kela's customer base consists of a wide range of customer groups and individual service needs, and it is therefore important that the service provided is equal. Just as Mr Viljanen said earlier, the big, functioning organisation is always based on well-being workers. To conclude, I would like to say that the positive thing is that the well-being of Kela's employees has started to improve since the organisational reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u214	Mr President! I believe that the committee has intervened in particularly important matters in relation to Kela. There were the acquisition of well-being at work, travel compensation schemes and such things as those that people have spoken about both in everyday life and here at political tables. Personally, I would pay particular attention to well-being at work, because when Kela’s work has changed — it is no longer just about paying benefits, but it is about dealing with customers who have a variety of problems — in fact, the kind of social work that traditionally and now, in division of labour, belongs to the municipalities, is also present in Kela. It is good that it has also been possible to recruit new kinds of skills, and in that sense, if the staff turnover is high, there may have been a positive problem in Kela, because it has also brought new types of people in. It would be important to establish staff, because when Kela’s systems are so complex, whenever a new person has been taught into the system and systems, if he leaves due to temporaryity and finds another job for himself, then another person will be taught to do the job, and this of course eats up the resources that Kela has. With regard to procurement, I would like to stress that we have, in fact, introduced new types of operators on the rehabilitation market who traditionally do not have rehabilitation skills. If the hotel business lands on the rehabilitation market, the alarm bells should ring that it is certain that if the price wins, then the quality is right. I believe that this is a major challenge when dealing with scarce resources and growing needs, and in that sense the development of procurement skills and the introduction of the new mechanisms that have now been mentioned in this debate are positive. Today I had the opportunity to spend two hours at that Kela Kamppi office, and I agree that Kela is better than its reputation in many respects. In fact, there was a pretty good development of the service concept that if people in the past have been waiting in line for a customer service experience, then now there is a recipient, whose first question is that what thing you need, what kind of service you need, and according to it the customer is being directed forward. The first step is electronic services, and if you do not know how to use machines yourself in electronic services, you can get a person to help you. I think that this is a good way to familiarise people with electronic services and also to direct it more to the electronic side so that in future those who really need personal services can get more of it. There was also attention paid to what Mr Kontula raised here with merit, what is the service experience and what is security in those situations when dealing with large open spaces where there are no walls and there is no access to the four walls to deal with their case if you need help. These things had also been considered. I would like to see a new lobby mechanism of this kind. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u217	Mr President! I myself would like to say a few words about Kela in relation to the subject we are dealing with here. I would like to see the next time — and I am sure it will also be a matter of communication — that we should also be able to deal with the fact that we have, as the case may be, under the protection of the wings of Kela, sick bodies in the workplace. There comes and is saddened by the way in which these so-called 'better drug reimbursements' and the related measures, which are paid for by the staff themselves, are in the wind. Now, for example, Kela is looking for a payment, so the bags do the surveys and then Kela makes the payments for herself. This creates difficulties in cases where further clarification is required. Sickbays themselves — although not under the same responsibility and professional secrecy obligations as Kela’s officials — do not have the possibility of their spouses’ incomes, so that the calculation can be done directly. And the administrative burden. Kela has moved to these sickbays, which in itself is a pity. At this stage, it is certainly worth considering – and I will ask the Minister in writing – what the status and will status of Kela will be for these sick people in the future, because we have changed our labour market and the staff of sick people has been reduced due to outsourcing. But it is a very good option for employees rather than insurance themselves to pay for them: faster treatment, better medicines, cheaper insurance nature. It is great if this is the way the queue works here in Kamppi, but in the summer we were able to read greetings from Rauma, where Kela's customers are waiting outside. Which means there's no access to the interior except by the number of the shift. Let's hope that before freezing, this matter may have already been taken care of, so that the smaller units of Kela around Finland can be arranged so that people do not have to wait for their turn on the yard in the cold.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-10-23-ps-55.u218	Mr President! Kela is for the citizen and close to the person, and Kela provides service from the service desk there. At the end of 2018, Kela had 161 service points and 138 service points. However, in this committee's report, which was submitted by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, of which I myself am a member, we note that the number of contacts between telephone services and service points decreased slightly from the previous year. There has been a lot of e-services, but it is important that customer service continues to work and that different groups are taken into account and that the service is equal. And, of course, in addition to this remote connection, the service network that enables personal contact must indeed be sufficient in Finland. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers it important and very positive that the key figures for the well-being of Kela's employees turned to growth after the fall. Kela’s employees are often hard hit, because people get criticism there too, and it also comes to Kela’s delegates. In this report, we have taken the view that, for example, interpretation services for disabled persons, taxi rides replaced by Kela and therapy for rehabilitation have been on the table at the meetings of the delegates because of the great number of criticisms they have received. Kela plays a very important role in planning, preparing and implementing social security reforms, for example. My final comment relates to the Government Programme, which states that the administration of Kela and the functioning of the services it organises will be examined. The committee considers it important to continue the work on the supervision, guidance, the status of Kela and its internal relations with jurisdiction. It is important, and it is also important to develop and renew Kela's operations. The committee report on the 2016 report already took into account the need to set up a broad-based parliamentary working group to examine the need for amendments to the Act on the Social Insurance Institution, and what I have been talking about here with Riikka Slunga-Poutsalo, the delegate of Kela, has said that the reform is ready.
