ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 1 hour is reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u2	Thank you, Mr President. At this reading we have a government proposal proposing, in accordance with the Government Programme of Prime Minister Antti Rinte, to abolish the cuttings and obligations of the so-called active model of unemployment security. From the left, finally! — Correct!] The abolition of the operating model's cuttings and obligations would mean that in the future, the maintenance of the unemployment benefit would no longer require that the recipient of the unemployment benefit succeeds in employment in paid employment or in business activities as required by the model, or that he succeeds in accessing employment-promoting services or employment-supporting activities for at least five days. The amendments would enter into force on 1 January 2020 and would apply to the benefit paid from the date of entry into force. For the rest, the obligations of jobseekers receiving unemployment benefits remain unchanged. It is therefore a general obligation for unemployed job seekers to continue to apply for employment and training. Similarly, the obligation to participate in interviews with a job seeker and to draw up and review an employment plan or a replacement plan, and an unemployed job seeker with whom an employment plan or a replacement plan has been drawn up will continue to be obliged to implement his plan and to seek and participate in the services agreed in the plan, which will support his job search and contribute to his labour market capacity and employment. The Government's main objectives are to raise the employment rate to 75% and reduce inequalities. As a result of the active model, unemployment benefit has been reduced on average by more than one third of the beneficiaries of unemployment benefit, and the reduction in the unemployment benefit is targeted in particular at certain categories of beneficiaries, such as older and long-term unemployed benefit recipients. The active model does not reward actively seeking work if the application does not lead to employment. It also does not reward an active attempt to become a participant in a service promoting employment or in activities supporting it if there is no place to participate despite the company. On the basis of the replies received for the purposes of the VATT study, the majority of the employees of the Employment and Economic Development Offices consider that the active model is not an appropriate means of promoting employment in labour policy terms. The active model developed into a model that is difficult to predict for the applicant for unemployment benefit, whose implementation results in significantly more work-related interpretation and counselling work for the contributors of unemployment benefit and employment and economic development offices. The Government's proposal to abolish the operating model's cuttings and obligations is therefore linked to the Government Programme's objective of reducing poverty and dependence on basic income support that is predisposed to exclusion. Similarly, the proposal relates to the principle of social justice and the reliability, profitability and understanding of the social security system in accordance with the Government Programme. In the Government Programme, the Government is committed to promoting employment, stating that government decisions will reduce inequalities and reduce income disparities and that measures to strengthen employment pay particular attention to their cost-effectiveness, effectiveness and social justice. According to the VATT study, during the duration of the model, participation in employment-promoting services increased in particular. This applies to both unemployed persons receiving unemployment benefit from Kela and unemployed persons receiving earnings-related daily allowance from unemployment funds. Although the objective of the active model was not to increase participation in services but to increase employment, a positive change in participation in services is a good thing. These services also contribute to the employment objective. On the other hand, according to the VATT study, the staff of the TE Offices estimate that the model has also increased pseudoactivity, which aims to meet the conditions of the active model by participating in services without contributing to the transition to the labour market. Active labour market policies will continue to be able to maintain a high level of participation in employment support services, and it is also important to pay attention to their effectiveness and customer orientation when developing these services. The final report on the VATT activity model found that the rapidly changing cyclical situation with regard to the impact on employment and the lack of appropriate control groups made the assessment task difficult and the results uncertain. Further, according to the final report of VATT, the employment of unemployed people receiving Kela benefits has not increased. The employment of unemployed people receiving earnings-related daily allowance has increased since the beginning of 2018, but this seems to be part of the trend already beginning in 2017. Overall, the study could not reliably assess the employment impact of the active model. In terms of incentives for partial employment, it is essential that partial unemployment benefits are paid to those who are employed in a coordinated manner. In accordance with the Government Programme, efforts are being made to improve the reconciliation of unemployment benefit in such a way that it is more neutral as regards the reason for the change in the labour market and the partiality of work. There is also an opportunity to improve these incentives. Mr President! The Government’s proposal to repeal the operating model’s cuttings and obligations is only one of the legislative and development projects under the Government Programme and based on the Government Programme. The ministerial working group on promoting employment and its sub-working groups are currently working on the task of reforming the services of unemployed job seekers to support employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u3	There are three people who have been waiting in line in advance. Let us take the floor first and then we shall have a debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u4	Mr President! After a long period of opposition, I too have had to learn to praise the government's proposals, and in this case it is not even difficult. [Laughter] All the critical predictions of the active model were fulfilled, and for a very short time. The talk that the impact of the active model should be studied more and the experiment continued is about hard attitudes and faith in the power of punishment. However, there are already articles in the Unemployment Protection Act which deny unemployment benefit for an indefinite period in the event that the unemployed person is not available to the labour market by his or her own activities, by refusing to provide services or work. I suspect that many of the active model defenders have not even known this. Can there be more punishment, and what added value does the active model bring in this regard? [Arto Satose’s interlude] Mr President! The active model punishes the unemployed on a mass scale. At worst, more than 100,000 unemployed people were affected during the period considered. The active model cutter has been bitten most heavily by those receiving labour market support. According to the Kela report, 42 per cent of those receiving reduced labour market support also received income support. The active model is a cut-off model for unemployment benefit without a genuine link to the situation of the unemployed person. It chose the most remote, less educated, long-term unemployed, elderly man, the one for whom even occasional jobs or access to employment services are as far away as possible — the model selected both regionally and socially. The fiercest proponents of the active model seem to believe that even the talk of an active model before it came into force had such a deterrent effect that the employment of the unemployed was already gaining momentum much, even years earlier than the model came into force. Some are happy to label almost all of the work administration’s tricks for employment, but in defending the active model they say that cutting can be avoided by participating in the work administration’s activities. In other words, a person's labour market capacity will not improve if he or she participates voluntarily, but if he or she is forced by an active model, his or her position in the labour market will be quite different. It's okay to ask, where's the logic? There are two completely different things to measure how many unemployed people with basic security benefits avoided surgery with short jobs and, in many cases, it resulted in the complete elimination of unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u5	Madam President! The Parliamentary Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities has already taken a position on the active model when it discussed the opinion on the Government's draft budget. We members of the committee did not oppose the removal of the active model cutter. The parliamentary group of the Coalition Party will take a position on the active model very soon when the Coalition Party announces its proposal for an alternative budget. Personally, I am really glad that the active model cutter is going out — I have never been in favour of it. After all, unemployment is due to the fact that there are not enough jobs for everyone who wants to work, nor to the fact that people are lazy. The cutter has been bit badly, especially by the ageing unemployed, who have not been able to get a job, even though they have been looking for it desperately. There is a lot of discrimination on the labour market in terms of age and other forms of discrimination. I would also like employers to review their attitudes and hire people to work with a little less prejudice. Recruiters should understand that unemployment does not make a person any less of a worker candidate. Older job seekers, for example, can also have a really good condition and valuable skills and experience. A woman of the age of starting a family can get a very high - efficiency and a committed, hardworking worker. When the rather non-existent employment measures proposed by the government were discussed in the Committee on Labour in connection with the budget, the Coalition Party disagreed with the committee's opinion. We said that the measures proposed by the government did not increase employment but could even weaken it. We call on the Government to immediately bring to Parliament proposals to replace the active model as measures to increase employment. Or is there even going to be a replacement? The employment measures announced so far by the government will not increase the suction of the economy and bring new jobs; they are nothing more than tinkering. As has been heard here, the government almost blindly trusts in pay subsidies, even though experts say that it has no employment-enhancing effects. [Left: Yes!] It can help some people to get a job on an individual level, but the job in question will then be sidelined by another job seeker. Thus, according to expert advice, the wage subsidy has an effect of marginalisation. It targets jobs in a different way [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude] In addition, personal services for unemployed job seekers should be reinforced as a substitute for the active model. Additional appropriations for the Employment and Economic Development Centres (TE Centres) must be allocated to support the search for unemployed people for work and, in particular, to increase personal meetings.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u6	Mr Kivelä and then we go to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u7	Mr President! The active model has been unfair and inappropriate, and it is good if this message comes from here more widely. For the Left Alliance, the removal of the active model was a key issue in the government negotiations. We are very pleased that Minister Pekonen has taken up the work immediately and now here in Parliament we can finish this job.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u20	And now let's go to the debat. Those who wish to speak can stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u21	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say that it is true that there is now insufficient evidence of this effect on employment, but there is also no evidence that it is in a weaker direction. And I would also like to remind you of the good results of last season: the employment rate of 72%, 140,000 new jobs. But I do know that this has also been difficult on an individual level for many older unemployed people and also for remote areas where it has not even been possible to do so. But the idea that you don't have to do anything right now is not true.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u24	Madam President! The centre of the previous government, the Coalition Party and the Blues cut the unemployment benefit for a very large proportion of the unemployed by means of an active model. At the same time, they took the hard-working unemployed from the bread table. The active model was a wolf when it was born, but the centre and the assembly under the leadership of the then Blue Minister for Labour took the active model into force. The active model already received critical feedback from experts during the preparatory phase, and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities gave critical feedback on this. The True Finns opposed the active model. It is a good thing that this unequal lumping of the unemployed, especially the older unemployed, is now being stopped. We have seen how the election promises of the government parties are not being added, but we can now be pleased that at least this active model cutter will now be put to an end.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u25	Madam President! Listening to this debate comes to mind last time I was in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, and that was when, under the leadership of the Social Democrats, there was an objection to this whole active model cutter. And as has been pointed out here, we were all aware of all these things already in preparation: it cuts off the long-term unemployed, it increases people's income support, it is unequal. Even though a person tries to find work but does not, he is still being operated on. All this information was available to us. We tried to argue and bring these up, and now there is a great feeling that now the Rinte government has brought this proposal and has removed this unfair active model. What we learn from this is that in the future, such mere proposals for cutting and weakening should not be made and brought here to Parliament and should listen to experts. This is also a day of joy for many unemployed people who have been in pain because of these surgeries.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u26	Madam President! For the time being, this government has gained mainly from employment-reducing reforms, such as cutting the household allowance and unemployment security. [PaavoArhinmäki’s interlude] There is now an active model which undoubtedly increased the use of services and also increased employment, although the increase in employment has not been assessed by the expert group by numbers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u27	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz pointed out that the active model had somehow increased employment. On the contrary, work and employment during unemployment did become somewhat more widespread after the active model entered into force. However, the study has failed to show the impact of the active model on employment, as other employment and economic trends have been positive at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u28	Madam President! Work and working life are a huge part of a person’s life. The opportunities for the production of labour content are extensive and, at best, enriching. It is difficult to see that an unemployed person is willing to give away that content in his life against unemployment benefit. The root causes of human unemployment are not in the tables and are not in probability but are hidden inside the person. It's not the active model that solves that. For the most vulnerable, the active model was not a viable solution. Cutting unemployment benefit does not help people to find employment. Employment policy must instead be developed more customer-oriented and positively supportive. Paying a benefit or compensation does not compensate for what you get at your best. It is therefore important to strengthen well-being at work, in particular, so that people can get excited about their work and get motivated by it. This requires that individuality be taken into account when assessing and producing employment-promoting services. This should be supported by:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u29	Madam President! If the government is to achieve tough employment targets, we must also find answers to the shortage of labour in many sectors. Currently, the process of residence permits for third-country workers takes too long. Long processing times, often between 5 and 18 months, lead to delays in many sectors, particularly in the construction sector, due to the lack of labour. Migri has also started a systematic expulsion of third-country workers. For example, extension permits for painting workers have been withdrawn because of suspected faulty diplomas, even though these workers have been in Finland for years and are top professionals. My question is: what is the government going to do to ensure that Migri's processing times do not exceed 4 months in accordance with the law and that the permits of those who have been in the country for years are not cancelled on false grounds?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u30	Irade the Talman! Indeed, the study carried out by ALTT shows that the active model had no clear impact on employment, [Ben Zyskowicz’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u31	Madam President! If the active model wasn't impressive, at least it was annoying. This citizens' initiative to remove the active model was discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health last season. I was there as a representative of the Finns of Finland, and in the report we strongly objected to it, and it is a good thing that the government now cancels this cutter. The active model caused a lot of problems. It put people in an unequal position. It hit most in Eastern Finland, Uusimaa and the arm in Lapland, where the reduced unemployment benefit cut people's support. The 60-year-olds in particular were also targeted. In this presentation, the Reumaliitto states that a long-term sick person of working age who is unemployed or affected by illness should be guaranteed a path to working life considered individually with a rehabilitation counselor or a disability coordinator. That is why I ask you, Minister: in what way do you support the fact that a disability-lowering illness or disability is not an obstacle to a person's access to work?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u32	Madam President! The so-called active model was unfair and unequal. No matter how active you were, no matter how hard you worked to find a job, you were still punished with a cutter. It was unequal. In particular, it treated older unemployed people in terms of cutting subsidies, and in some regions where there were no jobs, the cut was more severe. This was strongly opposed last season. This was left on the table. We tried to do everything we could in this Parliament to ensure that this cutting from the lowest-income unemployed was not carried through. And yet you took it through. You, the Coalition Party, have resisted the removal of this all spring and all autumn, but now you are suddenly making a turnaround here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u33	Mr President! Now it's good to see what this active model research really says. It tells us that for the long-term unemployed, this did not prove to be an effective model, and for the long-term unemployed, it must be a personal service, municipal experimentation is a more efficient system,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u36	Madam President! It is now appropriate to remind us a little of history: when we look back at the beginning of the Sipilä government, the main employment measures that the Sipilä government then took were not yet ready to decide on then in the first autumn of the government. The present red mud government is preparing new employment measures within the timetable set in the government negotiations and next year it will also be time to continue this reform of unemployment security. There is absolutely no point in comparing it with the previous period, because now that the employment rate has risen, we are talking about the so-called hard core of unemployment, that is to say, there are people who are really hard to work, there are sick people who are unable to work — who, admittedly, have been treated very unfairly by this active model. It's a good thing that this cutter is now out for them, too. And we must also remember that even in the future, unemployment benefit will not and will not be a basic income, but will continue to retain the obligation to apply for employment and these binding elements.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vehviläinen is absolutely right that this whole and this model had a clear impact on the use of services. And, as Mr Satonen said, something happened to the unemployed in the field of income security. It is difficult to determine why, based on that study. During this parliamentary term, we need more than the 30,000 additional workers who are entering the basic career through the VM, 60,000 additional jobs. We, as chairman of the political parties of the government, have dealt with this situation and stated that we are launching measures to ensure that the benefits of this second part of the active model, not the cutter, may be fully exploited. So let's start preparing for it. As stated in the Government Programme, this kind of personal employment plan will be a model to be drawn up as well as a job search obligation. And these things are being built around, with the aim of employment in the private sector in particular, a process that can ensure that the benefits of this experiment in the active model are used to improve people’s employment in the future, not the good things, not the cutter or the failure to fulfil their obligations, but the good thing that the services were started to be used. This will be a clear process by 1 March to take this forward. The Government is committed to taking this forward on the basis of the effects that can be observed when this is implemented. It is extremely important that every possible means, as has been said here, can be put in place to increase the employment rate. [Right: Right! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u42	And then Minister Harakka, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u43	Mr President! As has become clear many times in this Chamber, the government agreed among itself that this VATTI study would be the measure that might affect the figures for the employment objective, but there was no clear and precise understanding of the employment target or the impact on employment, so, as Prime Minister Rinne said there, our numerical objective is clear and valid: 30,000 additional workers in sight in next year's budget debate. The study carried out by VATTI shows the same message that the government has been preparing for its employment policy up to now, namely that the focus must be on the quality and adequacy of individual services, i.e. ensuring that services are actually employed. This will now be helped by the fact that these workers brought with them by the active model will remain in employment services and will then enable jobseekers to have a more individualised service. With regard to unemployment security, as the Prime Minister said, a model of individual job search is being prepared, which is fairer than the active model but still demanding and binding on the workers at risk of consequences.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u46	Let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u47	Mr President! We would have been spared many if we had listened to the Constitutional Committee, where I sat last season. In November 2017, the Constitutional Committee stated that this law — if I use this word — has some kind of casting failure because it is an automatic cutter. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposed that a provision be added that, if a person had not been able to access employment services on his own account, he would have been given the blame. After all, man was put before the impossible in this law. Even if he had delivered any notes, that I could not get any place to go to work or any services, the cutter still waved. The Constitutional Committee also had a solution to this, but it was not wanted to be listened to. I don't understand why, because it was already visible here at the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u48	Mr President! There is no clear evidence of the employment impact of the active model, but the employment rate of people receiving earnings-related unemployment allowance has improved and the number of unemployed persons has decreased. It is also good to remember that the active model was developed along the way. The obligations of the active model may have been fulfilled, for example, by studying or taking part in an online course. The active model had its own shortcomings, such as that, which did not take sufficient account of the elderly or those who were able to work part-time, and in this respect it would have been necessary to improve it. However, everyone must have the right to adequate unemployment benefit, but everyone also has the right to adequate employment services. I hope they will continue to happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u49	Madam President! During the last period, the Christian Democrats did not support the active model precisely because it led to quite unreasonable situations for individuals. Firstly, there were these people who fell from sickness allowance to unemployment benefit, the elderly, the long-term unemployed, and there was also this regional inequality, i.e. before these correctional movements, which the previous government did, for example, could not have been organised on a regional basis so that people could even participate in them. These were the reasons. But, of course, it is important to know now, as Prime Minister Rinne has well listed here, that these interviews and these detailed individual employment plans are being sought out. It is extremely important that it is compulsory and then that the necessary employment services are individualised. This is the path to employment. However, I would have liked to ask Minister Haraka,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u50	Mr President! In North Karelia's Social Security Association there is a so-called customer committee for employment, whose members are people who have personally experienced unemployment. I receive regular greetings from them, and in a message I received a couple of weeks ago, the jury wrote to me that the activation of the unemployed is to be welcomed, but — and now comes a direct quote: ‘We suggest that in the future activation will continue in the form of positive and human services. We need support, we don't need a stick. We propose that Parliament should also listen more to the voice of the unemployed, because we have experience and views on how the employment path can be successfully followed.” So I saw the unemployed on their own. This is a very important reminder for us, and hopefully the legislation will be changed and services developed in the future using good practice and listening to people's own voices. So I ask Minister Haraka: how will we listen more often to the voice of the unemployed than, for example, last season?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u51	Mr President! The special feature of the Finnish unemployment benefit system is that, due to the restrictions on sickness allowance, we have undisputed and well documented people who are unable to work in thousands, between 4,000 and 6000, as unemployed job seekers. In Finland, a person in hospice care may even have to seek basic security as an unemployed job seeker. This is one of the main reasons why the active model was perceived to be so unfair. These 4000 to 600,000 undisputed people are also affected by the active model today, and it is great that we are getting rid of it. But the next step should be that those people who are all aware of and agree that they do not belong as unemployed job seekers will then be able to benefit from another benefit so that there is food in the fridge, even if you do not register as an unemployed job seeker. When the system is illogical, people do not realize how it works.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u52	Mr President! In fact, I was going to raise just the same thing as Mr Kontula, namely the fact that there are a lot of people who actually have a state of health that does not allow them to work, but, for one reason or another, they do not receive the forms of social security that sick people should have, such as disability pensions. One such group of people, from whom I myself have received a lot of messages and feedback, is people who are sick from the inside of their workplace. We have far too many people who are classified as incapacitated at work, who, for example, cannot simply breathe at the workplace, but this classification as incapacitated does not mean that someone, such as the employer, is obliged to show a job in which they can work or that these people are entitled to a sickness pension or something like that.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u53	Madam President! There are a few speeches here that are a little past the active model, but at least Minister Harakka has responded to them, and I would also like to say a few words about these work permit processes myself. I hope that in every way the entire government, without any silos, will do its utmost to ensure that we in the provinces have sufficient manpower. The target of 75% of the employment rate is hugely important to us, so that we can continue to share well-being with Finland as a whole in the future. That's why it takes everything you do to find an employee in all kinds of work. Every person who is going to build a Finnish society follows the laws, our good practices, commits to doing the right thing in the workplace and in society as a whole, is welcome here. We need cooperation between all ministries, and the OKM must also be involved, so that those who come here to study can see,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u54	Mr President! This government proposal to remove the active model cutter is very necessary. The main problem with this model has been that almost always unemployed job seekers have not been able to avoid cutting their unemployment benefits, even though they have tried hard to take the necessary measures. The Finns of Finland, together with the rest of the opposition, raised this point in the autumn of 2017, and even the Committee on Constitutional Affairs drew attention to this issue, as Mr Meri said earlier. It's a good thing we're fixing it now. Mr President! The government has outsourced the search for ways to improve employment to the social partners and is looking forward to their results and policies. Raising the employment rate to at least 75% is a good goal, but unfortunately not all of the government's own actions have been conducive to increasing the demand for businesses, products and services. Examples of this include the government's proposals to cut the household allowance by EUR 92 million and the increase in fuel taxation by EUR 250 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u55	Madam President! Many have pointed out here that the active model led to more services and an expansion of the range of services. However, I would like to point out that it became clear on behalf of the TE Office that the increased use of services was not really based on the needs, motivation or labour policy appropriateness of the customer. That is why the active model is rightly considered unfair. I would therefore like to make a positive point here that resources in TE services have now been increased and the need for services has been identified, which is a very good thing on the part of the government. In the future, when taking employment measures, it should be borne in mind precisely who they are actually aimed at and why. Our aim must be to make it easier for more people to participate in the labour market and to provide timely support for employment. It cannot be that employment measures are increasingly leading to a deterioration in people and livelihoods. We want to encourage people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u56	Madam President! This is where Congressman Mustajärvi hoped for a fun funeral for the active model. Let it be buried, light soils. But what concerns the parliamentary group in the coalition is whether the government's employment objective is also buried here, contrary to the government's own programme, the measure is withdrawn without compensatory measures. Is the baby going with the bath water?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u61	Mr President! Finally, think of many unemployed now that the active model is dismantled. Many have been victimized by its cutters. The active model has actually been a passive and discouraging decision on the part of the unemployed, a particularly bad one, as far as its name is concerned. The active model does not take into account the activity of an unemployed person in seeking employment, not even if he has applied for 100 jobs. Furthermore, it has not been proven to have increased employment, as we have read in the VATT report. The model punishes the unemployed for not getting a job, no matter how hard they try. But sticking is not employment. The model has been particularly unfair to the long-term unemployed, older unemployed and people with poor working capacity. The dismantling of the active model was one of the key key issues for the Left Alliance in the negotiations on the government, and we are glad that the government is now really dismantling the active model, but we do not want any new cuttings.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u62	Mr President! I was already prepared to take the floor here to say that it is important that the Group is now in favour of the active model. In September 19, that is to say a moment ago, Mr Orpo said that the active model should be supported, supported by the cutter and this encourages etc., not to mention these Vartiainen statements and the fact that the coalition has systematically criticised the government for putting the active model in the wastebin, just where it belongs, throughout the spring and autumn. Let's take the stone out of the bun. Thank you for that, government. But now that I have listened to what Mr Sarkomaa has just said, there is a little question of credibility: what is the consensus on this active model? President-in-Office of the Council, I cannot escape the slight feeling that this secret lover is, after all, annoying the assembly to put it in the trash, formally and seemingly, because now I guess there is no place to oppose it. But I'd like to see the convention fair and square.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u64	Let us take a few speeches and then let us speak to the government. Then we will end this part of the debate, but the debate will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u65	Madam President! We will not miss the active model or its cutter in the assembly,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u70	Madam President! There has been a good debate and many perspectives have been opened up, but there are definitely two facts that have not been opened up. The second is that we have tens of thousands of vacant jobs and there are no Finnish people, men and women, to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u74	Mr President! I am now a little confused about how we can have a law in force in the country that no one seems to support.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u77	Let us now give the government the answers, two minutes each, you will answer your questions. First up, Prime Minister Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Representative Heinonen, today's latest statistics on employment indicate that the employment rate is 72.8 per cent, an increase of 0.4 percentage points over four months. If we continue at this rate, it will be 3.6 percentage points higher in 2023, which will be measured. In fact, however, it will be much lower than this at the time of the basic career of the Ministry of Finance. It is currently estimated to be 73.1, i.e. approximately 30,000 additional employees compared to the current situation. The government's measures will decide on the timetable that has been repeated several times here, i.e. next spring in April, mainly in connection with the unemployment benefit system, mainly in connection with local agreement, in August, employment measures for 30000 people and then 30000 more in the parliamentary term until 2023, i.e. a total of 60000 decision-making criteria. All of these are currently in preparation. This list of 25 measures is often listed here, on the basis of which the government is currently taking the preparations forward,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u79	And Minister Pekonen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u80	Thank you, Speaker! It sounds like listening to this debate on referrals that Parliament is very much in agreement with this government's proposal to abolish the cuttings and obligations of the active model. However, President-in-Office, a few Members have called for these so-called compensatory measures. I now find it a little frustrating to discuss here the fact that what is now replacing what and what is replacing what is actually being done.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u83	And Minister Harakka, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u84	Mr President! Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen asked how to ensure that better and more individualised services could be guaranteed during this government term. In concrete terms, we are now increasing the resources of TE services by EUR 50 million during the Government term. That means staff increases. This means that more and more people are helping people to find employment as an expert. And that is exactly what was left in this report; it is exactly what these TE experts want to do, to help customers personally. The North Savo Employment and Economic Development Office has even promised both the job seeker and the employers — we must remember that the Employment and Economic Development Offices serve both — and I think this is a wonderful promise. In addition, we want to help those who are able to work part-time to find employment, and they also need an individual, personal service in particular. Each Employment and Economic Development Office will be provided with work capacity coordinators who will assist — and once again — both the jobseeker and the employer. When the services improve, then a personal employment plan can be drawn up in exchange, which obliges you to do so. Now that our negotiating atmosphere has recovered and we have come to an open debate, I am sure that we will soon be able to come up with a concrete model of this. Of these cross-cutting services, it may be worth mentioning these TYP services and Cabs, where customer needs have been met in a cross-cutting and personal way. They will be achieved more quickly and more easily in the future, and we will be working with employment staff and social and health workers in both municipalities and ministries, and we will work well with Minister Pekonen, but also with ministers Andersson and Kosonen in that respect,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u85	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u86	We will now resume the debate on item 3 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u87	Mr President! The problems of the active model were obvious even when the proposal was brought to Parliament's attention last season. Even in the preparation of the model, the expert opinions questioned the effectiveness of the model. Now we are finally close to the day when we finally get rid of this unfairly-treated active model of the unemployed. The operating model's cutter and obligations will be dismantled on 1 January 2020 and employment will be maintained instead of the stick by supporting more unemployed people. I very much support the government's proposal, as this unfair active model cut unemployment security from over 100,000 unemployed people without showing the actual employment impact of the model. Mr President! Based on the final report on the active model, it is challenging to draw conclusions on the employment impact of the model based on research data. Work and employment during unemployment have, however, become somewhat more widespread since the active model entered into force. However, the study has failed to show the impact of the active model on employment, as other employment and economic trends have been positive at the same time. The employment of those receiving earnings-related unemployment allowance has also improved somewhat, but it is difficult to say what the active model contributes to this development. The survey showed that the unemployment rate of people receiving basic daily allowance and labour market support had not decreased at all. According to statistics, the active model has increased the participation of the unemployed in employment-promoting, in particular short service periods lasting up to five days. However, it is difficult to say whether more active participation in services has contributed to any increase in employment. It is worth noting that active labour market policies can continue to maintain a high level of participation in employment-promoting services, e.g. through periodic interviews with unemployed people, integration of services in employment plans and the obligation to take part in services. Mr President! During the period of validity of the active model, unemployment benefit has been reduced on average by more than one third of the recipients of the unemployment benefit. On the basis of statistics on the impact of the active model, the model has reduced unemployment benefit, in particular for older people and/or those who have been unemployed for a long time. In part, unemployment benefit appears to have been reduced, in particular, from those receiving unemployment benefits such as the long-term unemployed receiving labour market support and the long-term unemployed receiving earnings-related unemployment benefit from the so-called additional days. According to the final report of the State Financial Research Centre (VATT), based on a survey and interview survey for the staff of the TE Offices, the active model was not able to respond to the motivation, needs and conditions of various job seekers. Therefore, the model was considered to be unequal, unfair and targeted at the wrong customer groups. The active model was seen to encourage the wrong kind of activity, which is not based on customers’ needs or motivation or labour policy appropriateness. Mr President! The dismantling of the active model is about the livelihood and fair treatment of unemployed people. The main injustice of the model has been that the livelihoods of unemployed people can be reduced for reasons beyond their own control. It is very good that the cutter and the obligations of the active model of unemployment security are now finally being abolished. I would like to thank the government warmly for getting rid of this unfairly-treated active model right at the turn of the year and for the fact that the government's employment measures will continue to be more supportive and supportive of the unemployed rather than using the stick.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u88	Mr President! We should also help anyone who is able to work on a nail after removing the active model cutter. It is good that the government's proposal retains the obligation to apply for training. That is what we must support and encourage. What matters now is how we continue to ensure people’s activity. Immediate active job search is in the interests of the person himself. We know that, as unemployment continues, it will become more complicated to return to work. According to the Government Programme, a model is being prepared to replace the active model in which the unemployed person's employment plan provides for personal job search obligations and services, such as education and rehabilitation. Resources for this are secured in TE Offices, which require individual guidance. The change in working life is enormously rapid. New work will be created in these areas that require high levels of competence. The shortage of recipients is worsening across Finland. Concerns about skilled labour are growing because our people are getting older and the rise in educational attainment has stopped. I would like to highlight as one medicine continuous learning, learning throughout the whole life cycle, extending to different areas of life. We need to develop our entire education system and learning in everything into a seamless knowledge system. We must ensure that everyone in Finland has sufficient basic skills to enable this kind of continuous learning to enable them to develop their skills on a continuous basis. This ensures that when working life changes, it does not fall out of working life so easily. I would like to raise two aspects of the OECD 'GettingSkillsRight:Finland' draft report. First of all: while Finnish adults' participation in education is the highest in the world, there are significant differences in participation between different groups. When 66 per cent of employed persons take part in education and training, only 33 per cent of the unemployed take part in it. The accumulation of knowledge deepens the already existing skills gap. According to the report, the Finnish education system is one of the weakest in OECD countries. In other Nordic countries, work is created in areas requiring both high and low levels of competence. In Finland, development seems to be different. Work requiring a high level of competence has increased significantly in Finland, while work requiring a lower level of competence has increased only slightly. In some ways, it would be more balanced if our development went further in the direction of the other Nordic countries. Action must also be taken to ensure that work is also created for non-high-skilled tasks. One solution is to promote apprenticeship training. Another solution is to give greater support to small and micro-enterprises, as low-skilled people are a large number of small entrepreneurs who do not participate in training. This may be an obstacle to the expansion of the company and the employment of the neighbour. New jobs are just being created in small businesses. We could take the example of the Irish Skillnet Ireland model, where the state supports sectoral and regional networks that develop and organise training. The network’s companies carry out an assessment of the training needs of their staff, and these activities are co-financed, jointly funded by the state and companies. At present there are 16,500 companies in the network, 95% of which are small and medium-sized, and there are also micro-enterprises. This could contribute to a response to a replacement for the removal of the cutter. In this way, we help people find their strengths and we can encourage them to employ themselves and why not also their neighbours. Secondly, I am raising the skills of older people. The maintenance of their skills will become more and more important. Due to the change in age structure, the number of people aged 15 to 64 will decrease by 57,000 by 2030 and by 208,000 by 2050. It is necessary to ensure the level of competence of the ageing population. It's like we're in an intermediate phase. The reform of unemployment security will continue. The aim is to shorten periods of unemployment and encourage self-employment. However, unemployment benefit is not a basic income. Together and unitedly, we get to encourage people to work, all those who are able to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u89	Mr President! This day, many of the victims of the active model cutters have been waiting — waiting for us to discuss the impact of the active model and to take a decision here in Parliament on its repeal. However, they are more looking forward to New Year's Day 2020, when we will bring a completely incomprehensible and unjust active model into the history of their cutters. In its absurdity, the active model was doomed to failure at its origins. I did not understand then and I still do not understand the purpose of punishing the unemployed because, despite attempts, they are unable to find employment. This is particularly unfair in regional terms, since it is not the same as being an unemployed job seeker in sparsely populated regions as in emerging growth centres. The active model also dealt particularly hard with the long-term unemployed and those with poor working capacity. In their case, it has often been impossible to meet the obligations of the active model. It has also been calculated that as many as 100,000 unemployed were put into the active model cutter during one period of the period considered. Against this background, I wonder if some in this Chamber still see the model as successful and encouraging for the unemployed. It has become quite clear that the active model with its cutters has only been a way to save on unemployment security expenditure. Mr President! The actual purpose of the active model has been to blame the unemployed for their situation. In particular, the idea has been taken up in the assembly that there is work to be done when there is only enough willingness to work. From my own experience, I can tell you that this is not the case, because I believe that I am almost the only or at least one of the few representatives who have experienced an active model cutter. Despite my many job applications, all I could get was one job interview.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u93	Great. They saved the center.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u94	Mr President! At the end of October, VATTI's study on the employment impact of the last active model launched by the government was published. After all, the model was based on the idea that people who have been unemployed for a long time should be encouraged to participate in the labour market at the risk of sanctions. The study shows that the active model did not affect the employment of this group of people. The model has also been unfair on a regional, sectoral and age-group basis and has not taken into account, for example, people's ability to function and the need for rehabilitation. Moreover, the model has been bureaucratic and has not provided enough services for the unemployed. Those who have been unemployed for a long time need job training, walking alongside, looking for a guided job or a place to study. They don't need punishment. I myself have been involved in employment projects in North Karelia, whose main idea is to have faith in people's support. The North Karelia Social Security Association has had several employment projects, the results of which have been very good. The so-called Tarmo project, which is currently there, is a good example of how to support the long-term unemployed in returning to work. The key is personal preparation for work and the search for work. In particular, the project has produced very impressive results in terms of job training and job search, training and support for employment associations. In North Karelia there is also the Honkalampi Foundation's Jobia project, which I work in the steering group. It targets unemployed people over 50 years of age who are able to work part-time. Each client in the project will be tailored to a plan for employment or training that can be implemented in a work trial or in a pay relationship. There are a lot of people in this group who have completed primary school alone, which makes it almost impossible for them to work without further studies. Therefore, the parts and modules of their studies, supported by their work, are a very important way of moving forward towards working life. So, through my own experience, I know that those who have been unemployed for a long time will be able to find the right kind of support and help. I am therefore very pleased that the government wants to dismantle the active model and its unjust cutter. Punishing the unemployed will move towards supporting job search and creating opportunities. This is the human way and the right way. Mr President! The Social Security Association of North Karelia also has a customer committee for employment, whose members are people who have personally experienced unemployment. I receive regular greetings from them to this Parliament, and, for example, the last message I received said the following — this is almost a direct quote: ‘We are concerned about employment services. Of course, e-services are today, but when they are not for everyone. Especially when unemployment is prolonged, people need personal support in planning the future. There have been no opportunities for encountering employment policy in recent years. You have to ask yourself what kind of society we live in if we have to dream of facing each other face to face. We are also still concerned about attitudes towards the unemployed. We call for unemployment to be an everyday social problem which should not be labeled as a particular type of person. Periods of unemployment must not be given meanings that reduce the employment opportunities of the unemployed in the future.” So this is a direct quote from the message from the client committee for the unemployed, and this is a very important reminder for all of us. Indeed, many unemployed people felt that the model reflected the negative attitudes of society and decision-makers towards the unemployed, i.e. that punishment should be used to guide people who are not willing to work. Those who were unemployed for so long experienced this model. However, it is very rarely a question of reluctance, and I hope that if something good is to be looked for in this active model episode, then hopefully the understanding of the situation of the unemployed has improved. Finally, the last final comment of the employment committee, which I have just received, is almost outright quote: ‘Finally,we want to say,value representatives,that we want to see an unemployed person act. However, we propose that this be done in the form of positive and human services in the future. We need support, help and guidance. We don't need a stick. We propose that the voice of the unemployed should also be listened to more and more in Parliament. We have experience and views on how the employment path is moving forward." I believe that this was a very important reminder for all of us, and I hope that in the future legislative proposals will be made and services will be developed using good practice, some of which I have just said, and on the other hand I will also listen to people's own voice. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u95	Mr President! The active model has been a source of debate since it first came out. During that time there have been major demonstrations against the active model, numerous polls, emotional speeches and even nightmares. It is no wonder that, in all its injustices, the active model has caused panic and despair in the people most disciplined by its effects. The decision-makers have rightly received active criticism. The active model has been a disgrace to this country's employment policy, if you dare to call it employment policy. In fact, it has only been a weakening of unemployment security and a penchant for the unemployed, which has been cloaked behind an impressive name. Fortunately, now the direction is changing. The Government proposes an active model for the reversal of cuttings and obligations, as promised in the new Government Programme in spring. The active model is a direct indication that no law should be brought here to Parliament for decision without careful and proper preparation. And it is not the fault of the officials who have prepared the law, but of the decision-makers who have failed to conduct the work. This mistake must not be repeated and everyone must learn from it. Failure to prepare the law has led many people to become unduly involved and in difficulties. For example, a man of almost retirement age had been sent to an entrepreneurial course after decades of unemployment. Does this sound reasonable? No, it's a direct bullying of a human being. The problem has been that the activity criteria set by the active model have been contradictory. Even if he had been a politically active member of the municipal board, the active model also did not show sufficient involvement in society. Or, for example, voluntary work on the integration of immigrants was not sufficiently active, but then a few hours' work on suspension or on a course that does not even serve its own competence was a better demonstration of activity. It is now proposed to amend the Unemployment Protection Act so as to repeal the provisions on the active model of the Act on Unemployment Security after the expiry of the active days of unemployment benefit. The result would be that the recipient of unemployment benefit would not have to meet the conditions for participation in a service promoting paid employment, entrepreneurial activity or employment or in an activity supporting employment in order to maintain its unemployment benefit. Failure to fulfil the conditions for an active model would no longer lead to a reduction of the unemployment benefit by 4.65%. For the rest, the conditions for entitlement to benefits for beneficiaries of unemployment benefit would remain unchanged. The proposal also proposes that, in view of the repeal of the provisions on the active model, the provision on the state contribution of earnings-related daily allowance contained in the Act on the Financing of Unemployment Benefits and the Act on the Unemployment Fund should be amended. We talk a lot about the Swedish model, but we have not agreed to take the Swedish model on board either. Harassment of people does not lead to activity but to passiveness, and that is not what Finland needs. Finland needs to be positive and believe in the future, that employees are trusted and that unemployment, which is rarely even an individual's fault, is not a punishable act. Finally, we are getting out of this culture of humping and watching in an open and positive direction, where the employee and the job seeker are seen as a resource for society and not as a expense item for society. Finland needs new leadership, and this is an excellent place to start building trust in the labour market, where everyone is equally valuable and everyone has meaning. Only with confidence will we get Finland’s productivity growth curve and employment growth. That is why it is easy to support this government proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u96	Mr President! Earlier this day, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Mr Vehviläinen, pointed out that there was no evidence that the active model had been employed, nor that it had not been employed. It may be that Mr Vehviläinen is right. Instead, there is evidence that this active model has penalised the unemployed and has punished the most vulnerable, the most vulnerable, the most vulnerable. It has clearly targeted the long-term unemployed, it has targeted the unemployed with an immigrant background, it has targeted people who have problems with their health so great that they cannot actually work anymore, it has targeted the unemployed people living in the peripheral regions of Finland, and it has also targeted the elderly unemployed. It has genuinely been targeted at the most vulnerable part of Finland's working-age population. Mr President! Bye-bye, active model.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u97	Mr President! In addition to many others, I would like to leave a position on this important issue, namely the burst of the active model. It is good that one of the most unfair decisions taken by the previous government, the low income vaccinating and purchasing power-cutting tuning, is removed from the range of means. This stick line, as an employment measure, will be replaced by an incentive and support line for the unemployed. During the election campaign, much was said about this active model developed and introduced by the previous government, and in particular about the related cutter. It was perceived as unfair and ineffective, because although many unemployed people acted in accordance with the terms of the active model, there could still be a cut in unemployment benefit. It has contributed to increasing poverty and hence many other problems and nausea, including in families with unemployment, including child poverty. In the run-up to the elections, the SDP promised that this active model would be abandoned if it were up to us. Now we are making this promise together with the other parties in the government, and this unfair model will be dismantled. Mr President! In accordance with its programme, the government also looked forward to an assessment of the impact of the active model on employment, and it has also been requested here on the part of the opposition, because it has assumed that it has been a very effective employment measure. This view is not strongly supported by the report of the State Economic Research Centre, but states that the study cannot provide a reliable numerical assessment of the impact on employment, since the way the active model was implemented did not allow such an approach and, at the same time, employment increased sharply due to the cyclical situation and it is not possible to distinguish between the effects of the economic cycle and the impact of the active model. Strong employment growth started well before the active model entered into force. One of the findings of the report was that the active model cut unemployment benefit from just over one third of all recipients of unemployment benefits and from just over half of the people who were completely unemployed at the beginning of 2018. According to the survey, the active model was not considered appropriate for employment policy at the Employment and Economic Development Offices. The model was considered to be unequal and unfair and targeted at the wrong customer groups. It was considered to encourage activity that is not based on the needs, motivation or labour policy relevance of the customers, but is a so-called pseudo-activity which aims only to meet the conditions of the active model. According to the survey, the staff of the Employment and Economic Development Offices also want to develop labour market policy and service work within it more customer-oriented, positively more supportive and comprehensive. Mr President! The Government is strongly developing employment policies through services. The greatest potential for employment growth is especially for older immigrants, those dependent on primary education, those who are able to work part-time and those who are excluded from the labour market. In all these groups, services are of great importance. It is therefore necessary to invest in services that update, where necessary, the skills of the unemployed person and help and provide more personal guidance in job search. There will also be municipal trials next year, which will initially cover some 200,000 job seekers. There is good experience and the potential for strengthening services is great. In addition, the government intends to reform the pay subsidy. The aim is to increase its use considerably. In Sweden, for example, wage subsidies are invested several times as much as in Finland and have relatively good results. According to the Government Programme, the active model will be replaced by a model in which the unemployed person's employment plan provides for personal job search obligations and services such as education and rehabilitation. Mr President! This is a good direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u98	Mr President! It has become quite clear here in a long day's evening, at least according to the rest of the group, that the cuttings and obligations of the active model need to be changed and, of course, as part of the Government Programme, the Centre is also committed to re-evaluation of the active model, as is the case with the proposal. It's time to take a step forward. I'm still saying without horns and teeth, it's still important to be active in finding a job. Active job search is also in the interests of the person himself. We know that, as unemployment continues, it becomes more complicated and more difficult to return to work. So it gives some thought to how to maintain this will for activity in a good way. Good speeches have been made here, for example, by Mrs Kautto through her own story. Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen also had good examples of how the unemployed can be employed in a positive way, and that is at the heart of all this. As has been said here, the government is preparing a model in which the unemployed person's employment plan personally agrees on job search obligations and services, such as education and rehabilitation. This is a good thing, and it is also a good thing that the resources of the TE Offices are secured. The greatest potential for employment growth is, of course, for the elderly, dependent on primary education alone, immigrants, those who are able to work part-time and those who are excluded from the labour market, and in all these groups it is the services that are of great importance, and it is therefore wise that services should be invested, as the government does. President! Finland still has a record number of job vacancies, and companies see labour shortages as a key obstacle to growth. It is these measures to promote employment that must respond to this. The active model now needs to be looked at in other ways.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u99	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u100	Mr President! The participation and employment of older people in the labour force have increased throughout the 21st century. Despite positive employment developments, the employment rates of older people in Finland are clearly lower than those of the Nordic countries. According to the Government Programme, the employment of older and other hard-to-work people will be increased. This proposal contributes to this objective and responds to demographic change. The proposal is based on a proposal from the social partners and concerns the continuation of the implementation of the 2017 pension reform to which the Government is committed in cooperation with the social partners. The proposal proposes to amend the additional days of unemployment benefit, i.e. the so-called pension or unemployment pipeline, by raising the minimum age of the supplementary daily allowance born in 1961 and thereafter by one year from 61 to 62 years. This means that an unemployed person born in 1961 or later would be entitled to additional days of unemployment benefit at the age of 62, while the age limit is now 61. No amendments are proposed to the supplementary daily allowance for older age groups, for example those already in the supplementary days of unemployment benefit. At the same time, it is proposed to increase the employer’s own contribution by one year at the end of the period corresponding to the increase in the minimum age of the supplementary day entitlement in order to maintain the incentives and financial responsibilities of the system. It is also proposed to increase the maximum age limit for granting unemployment benefit to follow the rise in the lowest retirement age. This is important in order to prevent situations where the right to unemployment benefit could end before the lowest retirement age. On the basis of studies and studies of similar changes, the increase in the minimum age of the supplementary daily allowance is estimated to prolong working life and thus reduce unemployment and increase employment. It is estimated that the increase in the minimum age of daily allowance will reduce the number of unemployed persons by 7400 persons and will increase the number of employed persons by 6000 persons by the end of 2025. By 2055, the impact would be 9,000 people. In the past, increases in the age limits for additional days have led to an increasing number of older people continuing to work longer. On the other hand, it is justified to ask what happens to those whose entitlement to extra days is delayed. What if the increase in the age limit applies to me and my employment relationship has already ended and I can't get my expectations for the extra days at 61? In response to this, unemployed jobseekers aged 60 or over who are not entitled to additional days of unemployment benefit also have a subjective right to a job-promoting service or paid employment in a non-municipal service. By participating in these, you can re-fill the working conditions and return to earnings-related unemployment allowance. If an unemployed job seeker is not employed in an open labour market and he cannot be provided with suitable employment-promoting services or paid-subsidised employment in a non-municipal service, he or she is entitled to work organised by the municipality. The special safety net for older job seekers works in practice to restore to earnings-related unemployment allowance people who are not employed in the open labour market. These specific provisions of the unemployment benefit scheme for older people are not amended by this proposal. The increase in the minimum age of the additional days now under discussion is not the only measure for older people to be promoted by the government. In accordance with the Government Programme, access to employment-promoting and personalised services for those in particular need of support, including older people, will be enhanced. According to the Government Programme, employment services will be developed in such a way that the services at the start of unemployment in particular will be made more efficient and enable the individual needs of the unemployed to be better achieved. At the same time, the personal service resources of the unemployed are secured at the TE Offices. Older people have a lot of labour potential, and improving the employment of older people is also central to achieving the 75% employment target.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u101	Madam President! We were just talking about an active model and said that the cutter just hit the 60-year-olds, and now this proposal continues on this subject. The purpose of the proposal is to extend working careers. It is important that employment and employment services are secured for all unemployed, regardless of age. At the moment, this has not worked well. It is important that, when this proposal is under discussion, we also discuss how older workers face discrimination at work, age discrimination. A person who is left unemployed close to retirement age is considerably more difficult to find employment than a younger person. The employer may fear, among other things, whether the costs will increase if the worker becomes ill, whether they are greater than younger workers. The government should examine how the employment and position of older unemployed people in the labour market could be improved so that the employer’s cost of hiring an employee does not depend on their age. We parliamentarians — at least I myself — receive a lot of feedback and mail from just older job seekers when they feel that age discrimination is the biggest wall and an obstacle to accessing it to work. Association of Pensioners' Unions Eetu takes a stand on entrepreneurs in this proposal, among other things, and the Finns of Finland also worry about the social security and pension security of entrepreneurs and how it can be improved. So I ask you, the government, Prime Minister Antti Rinne and Minister Pekonen, how you will improve the social and pension security of entrepreneurs, because they are somehow forgotten and there in the dark. Entrepreneurs are the driving force in our society, but the issue, this unemployment, also affects them sometimes. In other words, these questions: extending working careers is important, but it is very worrying how the older person will find that job and how he will be believed and trusted. There is quiet information, the most important thing that our working life needs, knowledgeable people. We must trust them, and yes, the government, so it is that you must find the ways in which they get the jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u102	Madam President! There is a law on the amendment of the Unemployment Security Act and the modification of the financing of unemployment benefits in the Parliament. It concerns the elderly in particular. In addition to the amendment of the law, I too would like to draw attention to the so-called age discrimination. It is often said that when you get older you feel that jobs are not available so easily. Many people, such as those in their 50 ’ s, say that they have experienced this. How can this be addressed? It is true that this is not the case everywhere, but it is certainly the case from time to time, because there is so much talk about it. Is age, work experience, or life experience the most valuable thing in an interview? That is something we should consider. Should we Finns take the lead in this regard in some other countries where older people are highly valued? I think we have learning here too. How can we influence the so-called age discrimination? I hope the government has some good tips for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, the government's proposal proposes to amend the Unemployment Protection Act by raising the age limit for supplementary daily allowance by 62 years. This is based on previous pension solutions and an agreement between the social partners in which, by 31 May 19, they assess the impact of these additional days of unemployment benefit on the labour market status of the worker and other active measures. As Minister Pekonen pointed out here, the evaluation showed that the majority of those over 60 years of age who have reached the maximum unemployment allowance will return to earnings-related daily allowance through compulsory work, paid support work or employment-promoting services. This government proposal is therefore based on the mutual and shared view of the social partners. However, I personally find it difficult to change the law. In the past, while working in the Paper Union, I have been involved in a number of procedures. I've been watching close by how thousands of workers have been laid off from the industry. In these situations of dismissal, the supplementary daily allowance entitlement has been of great help if the termination has hit the age group of workers who were entitled to it. For them, the right to supplementary daily allowance has made it possible to secure at least a slightly more secure future, because, unfortunately, employment is often challenging for them. However, I also strongly believe that the common position of the social partners should be respected. I did not understand the actions taken by the previous government, which were badly involved in the negotiations between the social partners and even tried to undermine their right to decide on key issues. I am referring here mainly to the competitiveness pact, which was put under pressure by the previous government, in particular by the worker side. The government must respect the social partners, particularly in the field of pensions. This is what I did, even though decisions are not always pleasant. It is essential that we maintain a good dialogue between the social partners and value their views, although, of course, here in Parliament we also adopt this legislation. With these arguments, I am prepared to support this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u104	Mr President! In the 2012 contract of employment, labour market organisations agreed to increase the minimum age of the supplementary daily allowance for unemployment benefit from 60 to 61 years in 1957 and thereafter. The Act entered into force on 1 January 2014. The pension reform of 2017 was carried out on the basis of the 2014 pension agreement. The pension agreement also agreed that by 31 May 2019 key labour market organisations would assess the impact of the changes in the pension pipeline on the labour market status of the employee and in particular the practical functioning of the right to employment support and other active measures of workers who had been laid down in the contract of employment for 60 years or older. If it were to be established that the measures agreed in the contract of employment had the desired effect, the minimum age of the pension line would be raised from 61 to 62 in 1961 and then born. In June 2019, on the basis of a study carried out by STM, TEM, VM and RD on the impact of changes, the main social partners proposed raising the age limit for the pension pipeline by one year from 61 to 62. Mr President! I attach particular importance to the fact that this bill has been prepared in cooperation with key social partners and the Finnish Federation of Entrepreneurs. This proposal will now be used to raise the age limits proposed by the social partners. The proposal also contributes to the objectives of the Rinte Government Programme to increase the employment of older and other hard-to-work people. The draft objectives and proposed amendments were also considered by the rapporteurs to be mainly justified and supported. However, the opinions drew attention to important issues which should be taken into account in further preparation. The Centre for the Unemployed stresses in its opinion that employment and employment services must be secured for all unemployed, regardless of age, and believes that this is not the case at the moment. The Centre for the Unemployed considers it important that, before raising the age limit for the supplementary daily allowance for unemployment benefit, a disability programme should be put in place to ensure that all unemployed people have an assessment of their ability to work and an employment plan based on it, together with services, and that the necessary resources should be defined for the services of older job seekers in this proposal. The Eetu Association of Pensioners' Unions, on the other hand, drew attention to age-based discrimination in working life, which could be addressed by legislation. The Eetu Association also insisted that entrepreneurs should be guaranteed the same rights to additional days of unemployment benefit as employees. According to Prime Minister Antti Rinte's Government Programme, alternatives to improving the social and pension security of entrepreneurs will be explored. The clarification of the entrepreneur's right to extra days and its financing is well suited to the wider project on the social security of entrepreneurs. The Ministry of Finance and Suomen Yrittäjät ry, on the other hand, drew attention to the fact that tying the upper age limit for supplementary daily allowances to follow the minimum age limit for old-age pension under the employee's Pensions Act leads to an increase in earnings-related daily allowance periods in part of the age groups. In addition, an increase in the upper age limit of the supplementary day's entitlement to unemployment benefit may have negative effects on employment. The Ministry of Finance therefore suggests that the proposal should assess as an alternative method of implementation the linking of the minimum age of the supplementary day entitlement to retirement age to the upper age limit in order not to increase the so-called pension line in the long term.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u105	Mr President! This is an important proposal. This is the only proposal from the list in point 25 of Mr Haraka's employment minister, for which the Ministry of Employment and the Economy itself was able to calculate positive employment effects, possibly between 4000 and 5000 jobs. Of course, if the pension line were completely removed — perhaps a hint to the government when considering the employment targets — the effect would perhaps be more than 10,000. It is also interesting that, when we were just talking about the removal of an active model cutter, the lines of the government parties were very, very, very full, but now the seats are quite empty — only Mr Berg and to some extent Mr Kautto have been defending this matter, not only the Minister. I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that it is not good. This is the easiest way out of the employment measures that you will still have to take if you want the 60,000 to actually be achieved. Mr President! Now to this matter of fact, this pension pipeline system. I understand that in a situation where we were, for example, in a recession, this was the idea that we would let those people who were at the end of their careers retire in order to secure jobs for younger people. We have been in that situation for a long time now, as Mrs Hoskonen, among others, in the previous debate, has proved excellently that we are in a very heavy labour shortage. And that is why this unemployment pension pipeline has become a system in which, in the context of the negotiations, as Mr Kautto said here, it is a convenient arrangement for both the employer and the worker to be dismissed and transferred to the pension line. If this pension line did not exist, it is likely that some other persons who would then be employed again would be made redundant. The issue that is rarely discussed in connection with this pension line is the question of the pension provision of a person who has been put on a pension line. His pension will be considerably lower than that of the people who make the entire career. This is, in fact, an important issue, because that occupational pension must, however, enable a person to get along. So this pension line is not a happy solution, although it may seem as if it is an easy solution for the employer and, to some extent, for the employees when it is done. That this system is not suitable for this cyclical situation, and it is good that it is now being dismantled by the government, even in a small part of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u106	Madam President! Mr Pekonen gave an excellent presentation on this matter. I would like to start by saying that other representatives than those mentioned will defend this proposal from the ranks of the government. This is a very important government proposal, and I would like to state some arguments in support of this. Life expectancy in Finland in 1971 was slightly over 65 years for men. Now it's almost 79 years, that's 14 years more. Women have developed in such a way that in 71 C.E. life expectancy was 74 years and now it is 84 years. It is only natural and understandable that, as we live longer and longer, we will of course be happy to give our people a longer retirement period, but at the same time it is true that we are healthier, that our ability to work is better and that we should also have a higher working age. Well, luckily, this has happened. In Finland, the employment rate for people aged 55 to 64 is currently around 65%, but it is still significantly lower than in the other Nordic countries: in Iceland it is over 80, in Sweden it is around 75%, in Norway and Denmark it is 70% on both sides. We have talked a lot about the previous issue and otherwise about the employment rate. It is good that certain indicators are used when we assess developments between years, but there is such a problem in this employment rate that the percentage of the population aged 15 to 64 who are working at least one hour a week is being calculated and that this whole age group, from which this is calculated, is decreasing. When we divide Finns aged 15 to 64 into five-year-olds, we have at the end five-year-old groups with 360,000 Finns, but at the youngest end there are 290 000 Finns, for example in the 10 to 15 age group, who in the next five years will become the first five-year-old group from 15 to 64 years of age. That is why it will be crucial for the success of all the employment objectives to be achieved in terms of improving employment among those over 60 years of age.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u108	Mr President! First of all, to Mrs Lindén: I think it is not in our hands how this employment rate is to be calculated. I myself have always wondered that it is between the ages of 15 and 64, but I believe that it follows the same pattern that exists internationally, at least in the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u112	Mr President! There have been excellent speeches here, and one of the major challenges facing Finnish society of course is age discrimination, which is reflected in recruitment, and partly in this pension pipeline solution when it is done, has been that it has made it easier for the employer to transfer older, merited, often experienced and skilled workers to the pension line, who could well continue to work. This age discrimination is a genuine situation, and that is something we should pay attention to. There was a lot of talk about this concept of the ‘working-age population’ and the fact that the average age of life has also risen. As a statistic, after World War II we have had 23 more years of age. The average life expectancy has increased so much, in a way one generation has increased, and in that respect it would be hoped that this retirement system would be more flexible than it is at present. We genuinely have a situation where we are both forced to retire and to retire. We should retire those who are no longer able to play an active part in working life, but we also have a huge brain drain to retire — that is where we are going to be. In other Nordic countries, much more flexible systems have been introduced. In Norway, for example, the general retirement age is between 62 and 75 years old and the fork is able to involve even older people in working life — if they want to and consider it necessary — and I believe that Sweden too has just changed the system so that the retirement age has increased by one year from 68 to 69 years. It is important to realise that in people over the age of 65, when we talk about the active population and the employment rate is calculated between the ages of 15 and 65, we actually have almost 100,000 people who are involved in paid employment. By the way, this is one of those things: according to the dependency ratio, I belong to the dependent population. But, in fact, there are a lot of us, 100,000 people who are actively involved in paid work. In other words, this increase in the employment rate of a population over 65 is the big challenge that we must also put forth and not categorically talk about this working-age population from only 15 to 65 years of age.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u113	Madam President! It is true that those age groups are getting smaller, but if you ask for a personal position, then I hope that this government will do its utmost to ensure that very few of those 15-year-olds in the right working life take part, and that everyone acquires training to mirror the needs of the long career, and then, when you have at least a secondary degree and such skills in the back pocket, it is safe to start a working life. Of course, there are challenges and needs for continuous, lifelong learning, because it will not, of course, cover everything either now or in the future. As far as workers at the other end of this age range are concerned: It has been a pleasure to get to know and keep in touch with those in the care sector who, even after retirement, are able and willing to participate in the work community. If you think of those who are a little younger than them who are struggling with whether to work, get contracts as an aged nurse, and, on the other hand, whether they are able to be there, then it is a terrible deal more about the management and attitude of the workplace, the working communities, whether they are welcome at the workplace or not. I feel that the laws and regulations do not so much regulate these matters at the end. For some reason, we in Finland are still far too resistant to older people in many areas and do not see the potential that many iron professionals have to give to work there. At least these nurses, what I feel, feel that they are living the best time of their life. They can themselves determine when they are available for work, when they may be caring for their grandchildren, when they are engaging, do all the important organizational activities. That is what we should be trying to do, that there are fair rules in working life and that there is a good and open atmosphere in the workplace for the strengths of people of all ages. These, as I said, are not regulated by laws alone. So I ask the ministers in the box: what can we do in society that is not directly a government proposal but reflects our understanding of the potential of people of all ages and giving its flowers to serve us all better in this society?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u114	Mr President! In this regard, Mr Satonen was still a little inspired to make a brief follow-up speech, so that at least now there is no misconception as to what my point was that I am behind this government's proposal. If this had come without tripartite preparation between the social partners, it would have been much more difficult, quite frankly, to support this, even though I am a representative of the Government Party. When I work in the Ay movement, I have noticed that this pension line has, however, been a huge safety net, especially in situations where the whole job goes under, that is to say, there is little need for the dismissal order to be followed and there everyone goes to the kilometre factory. So yes, this has actually had a positive effect, because we know that older people have, unfortunately, a little more challenging employment. However, the extremely good thing about this proposal was that, of course, this may also have employment effects, and I do not deny that, we have returned to the trialogue and we have listened to the social partners and respect them for what is theirs, and pension issues are, in a very increasing way, increasing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u115	Mr President! This is a good government proposal. The labour market organisations therefore suggest to the government that the minimum age of the pipeline should be increased by one year to 62 years in 61 and thereafter — and that is a good thing. Of course, this proposal would not, as Mr Satonen said, have such a significant impact on employment during this term of government. The second point is that this proposal will also expire as the retirement age rises rapidly, such as the representative. Lindén, too, said. In fact, I am thinking of the same thing as Mr Satonen: if the increase in the age limit for the unemployment pipeline once increases employment, why not remove the unemployment pipeline altogether? If the pipeline were removed, the employment of older people would improve, unemployment would fall and the level of pensions would improve. It is clear, Mr President, that in future we will have to look more carefully at the ways in which the employment of older people will be improved. The other Nordic countries are ahead of us here too, as colleagues have said. Mr President! So this is a good proposal, but it will not be enough in the future. We need a state of will to give up the pension line. The implementation can be discussed and the position of those in the pipeline secured, but a new proposal is needed, and hopefully it will come during this government term.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u116	Mr President! I will return to the speeches that have been made here. It is a good thing that there seems to be more support for this within the government than initially did. Of course, it's a positive thing. Perhaps also what Mr Lindén rightly pointed out here: I also strongly believe that if, and hopefully when, we actually pursue the employment objective to which the Prime Minister also referred here earlier, we can reach 60 000 jobs on a decision-making basis, then the key issue is whether or not the employment rate of people over 55 will rise in Finland. The measures that will affect it in particular, which we are discussing right now and which Mrs Wallinheim has made an excellent reference to here, will certainly be an absolutely central part of that palette, because it is extremely difficult to find the means that really affect them. Of course, it is always the case that when significant decisions are made, not everyone is winners in it, but this is a thing if we can move forward with this removal of the pipeline, that a large part will win in it. Above all, those who are allowed to work full-time will win, and as Mrs Kiljunen pointed out, perhaps even after that, because that pension benefit is significantly better. At least you shouldn't be... As far as Mr Kauto's speech is concerned, I can understand that if the whole factory is shut down and what difficulties it has to face with new employment and so on. I have also visited quite a number of closed factories when I chaired the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities during the post-2008 recession. At the time, the committee used to visit all the paper mills that had been closed down in Finland, and there were quite a few, by the way. At the time, this debate took place, and I have also had discussions with a great many people in the situation where the work that has been done for decades suddenly goes under: how do we deal with that situation? Of course it's gonna be one of those challenges. But there are more and more jobs in this society where an employee over the age of 55 is a very good worker for the employer, and that too must be taken into account that we do not encourage people to get out of work too soon, because it is not in most cases a personal interest either.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u117	Madam President! The fact that a pensioner is not able to retire is one reason why older people seek employment and do jobs. This is familiar in the nursing sector: If pensioners, elderly people, if they did not go there to work as a nurse, there would be a lack of labour. Old-age care is saved by a nurse who's retired. The same is true in the motor vehicle industry, in the transport sector: An increasing number of older people drive trucks. My friend — say hello to Seppo Kallung, 70 years old — drives a truck every week. He is very active and sets an example that an older person works full - time. In many cases, it is the fact that you cannot manage to retire, and this is the problem that I would like the government to take action on. Of course, this increase in small pensions, which we are still discussing this evening, does not raise all the small pensions, so the government still has a lot of work to do to get the pensioners' incomes right. But on the issue of age discrimination, which I raised in the first speech, I am delighted to say as a nurse that in the care sector the threshold of discrimination is low, there is a good old age and an older worker. But, of course, there are different jobs in the care sector, there are also those who are busy and hectic, and it would be desirable to have access to specialised medical care and on-call services as well, with professional experience, skills and skills. It is also important that the orientation works and that the employee is well received and truly respected for the movement of silent information, which is particularly important in the crafts sector and where there is a need for strong experience. In other words, this age discrimination is a serious problem in Finland and, as Mr Reijonen said here, even those in their 50s face it. Prejudice and preconceptions are fierce. When you think of a good time, a 50-year-old is in the best working age, skilled, active and active, children are already big and there are no child care problems, you would think that all of them would be able to work, but also for those people — because we are talking about extending careers, and this proposal comes to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, where I myself am — who are not the best able to work, then there are support measures, there is rehabilitation, just as the Reuma Federation has suggested in the previous motion. Of course, it is important that we also understand the limitations that exist. Yes, you have a big backpack for the government to carry.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u118	Mr President! Indeed, it is great that the government has found at least one employment instrument which, according to independent expert judgements, would actually increase employment. However, even this means will not affect this regime and, as has been said, the solution will soon become obsolete. This increase in the minimum age of the unemployment pipeline that the government is now proposing is not enough. Studies on the impact of the unemployment pipeline have shown that the unemployment pipeline increases the unemployment rate of older people and decreases employment. It removes older people from the labour market and acts against itself. It has to be said to Mr Kautou that the blessing of the Ay movement or the lack of its blessing does not make any employment instrument any more effective or better. It is absolutely worthwhile for the government to rely on independent experts and research data when these proposals on employment instruments will hopefully continue to be made, and the proposals made by independent experts that the government's own officials have at their disposal at the moment really all are needed. We need all the means that have been studied to increase employment in order to achieve the government's own target of 75% of the employment rate in this period. Well, now that the government recognises that this increase in the age limit for the unemployment pipeline will increase employment, then, as the representatives of Satonen and Wallinheim have asked, why is the government not proposing to abandon the entire unemployment pipeline? The abolition of the unemployment pipeline will significantly increase the employment of older people. Of course, the status of those in the current pipeline should be safeguarded, but this too cannot be discussed unless the government has the will to promote the complete abandonment of the unemployment pipeline. I agree with the point raised in this debate that Finland needs to have a thorough and wide-ranging debate on the position of older people in the labour market. I bumped into and I still run into stories about how frustrated many middle-aged people are that despite their own desire to work they can't even get a job interview. In fact, I think that this unemployment pipeline already contains a certain idea that, after a certain age, people would no longer qualify for the labour market, and this really requires a change in attitudes in Finnish society and also among employers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u119	I will ask the next speaker whether the floor should be taken. Congressman Kiljunen?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u120	Mr President! It was a pleasure to hear Mr Vestman speak. It had the right ingredients. Before all, there was a very serious consideration of the position of older working-age people in the labour market. It takes a change of attitude, and it had the right ingredients. Mr Satonen, you also made a good speech on the fact that the longer a person is in his final phase of work before retiring, the better pension provision will be, and that is an important point to take into account. But I would like to underline that older people who want to be involved in working life, who have a lot of skills and skills and opportunities to be involved in working life, are not necessarily just about living. It is also an opportunity for an older person to participate in society, to contribute, to contribute. It's kind of like I said, a poet and an artist never retire. We have a lot of people from professors to diplomats, academic people, business leaders and others who still have the chance to help and contribute a lot to society, give it their own know-how, and put them on the shelf when they retire. Let us be more flexible in this regard. Norway is an excellent model, I repeat: Norway has a retirement age of 62 to 75, which means that there is indeed also the possibility for society and individuals to take advantage of the fact that retirement is not compulsory.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u121	Congressman Wallinheimo, do you like the place? — — — — Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u122	Let's keep it that way. — Mr President! Good government, you know that these means of employment, which are now to come, will not be easy. This was already noted in the recent active model discussion in this Chamber. We did some work last season. Some were good actions, some were bad actions, and here we are. I believe that this removal of the pension line would be one of the easiest ways, although that is also difficult. I would like you to seriously consider this in the future, because there are no easy ways anymore, but this is one of the softest ways of doing that. Removal of the pension pipeline could create up to 10,000 new jobs. That would be one third of your decision-making job needs, so keep this in mind and try to take this forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u123	Madam President! Let us say that the government is certainly making wise decisions and should be able to decide everything, but it is now necessary to say in the direction of the vote that those who regulate the labour market are those who decide on this pension system too, that is to say, when pension funds are, as a rule, financed by the social partners, they are also decided there. And this is the continuation of the pension agreement from 2014 for which, in this reading this year and in 2017, the solution was reached that the courage was now being taken to take the step that almost all of those unemployed in 2017 who had reached the 450-day limit — according to statistics, 1493 — were admitted to compulsory employment, i.e. re-entered the so-called earnings-related job security. This has been the central part of why we on the left are agreeing to this solution, because the social partners have seen that the safety net is not being removed from people who would otherwise have been left without work, for example because of the closure of the paper mill. That labour market status of the older population and of the elderly has not been very attractive to the employer, although, as Mr Kiljunen has said here, there is a great deal of knowledge to be given to society. This is the step that has now been taken in the collective view of the social partners. That is why, as a left-wing MP in the government, this should be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u124	And Minister Pekonen, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u125	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. I would like to thank you for this very constructive debate that has taken place in this Chamber in the last hour. Many representatives here have drawn attention and raised the concern that we really do have age discrimination in working life, in the labour market in this society. I think that we all have a responsibility here to influence attitudes and the atmosphere. I would like to remind you that this proposal is also one way of reducing age discrimination. The government also invests in continuous learning, which also ensures that older people remain closely involved in working life, and I see this as an important issue. Here, representatives of Vehviläinen and Juvonen and Mr Heikkinen drew attention to this well-being and working life, and I personally take it extremely seriously. We must take special care of those who are involved in working life, so that no one falls out, outside of working life. That is why we must in particular develop various services not only in the health sector, but also in the employment services, for example, among people who are able to work part-time. Mr Heikkinen also very well raised the issue of retired workers as an asset in the work force and, in particular, in the care sector with labour shortages, as did Mr Juvonen here. It's very familiar to you, too. I would like us to be able to respect precisely the experience and appreciate the skills already available to retired workers. Finally, President: Mr Juvonen asked about pension and social security for entrepreneurs. I say that the Government has included in the Government Programme that it will explore ways of ensuring effective coordination of the various forms of social security for entrepreneurs and improving pension security, and in line with this we will also act in the Government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u126	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u127	We will now resume the debate on item 4 which was suspended earlier in this plenary session. There was one missing speaker. Representative Herbtiaho — absent.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u128	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u129	Mr President! This proposal proposes to amend the Labour Protection Fund Act so that the reference to the Association of the Support Association of the Finnish Centre for Safety and Health at Work would be translated into a reference to the Association of the Finnish Centre for Safety and Health at Work. The Association that maintains the Finnish Centre for Safety and Health at Work, as referred to in this Act, is currently known as the Finnish Centre for Safety at Work. It is also proposed to amend the obsolete reference provisions. These changes are of a technical nature. The aim of this proposal is to bring the law into line with the current state of affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u130	Mr President! The purpose of the proposal is to transform the reference to the Association of the Support Association of the Finnish Centre for Safety and Health at Work into a reference to the Association of the Finnish Centre for Safety at Work. Of course, it is a good thing to stress this point, because things are very often what they look like, that is, we are not talking about a support association or something else. In this bill I dug up the significance of this health and safety fund. The role of this fund is extremely important. Its task is to provide funds for research into health and safety at work, training on health and safety at work, information on health and safety at work and research, training and information on the promotion of working life relations between employers and workers. Just as we have been discussing this issue here today of health and safety at work, well-being at work, working life, active model, working life for older people, this is a significant fund. We must have other Members of Parliament who have worked here as shop stewards or occupational health and safety representatives. I myself have been a shop steward in the care sector, and I know what things are going to happen there, and I have to deal with major problems and questions. It is a good thing that we are also talking about health and safety at work here in Parliament, because it is a very important issue for the worker to be able to cope with. The headlines related to this too have been on the news a lot lately. We have heard, among other things, about the challenges in HUS. Each of us also receives feedback from the employees: how to do when there is bullying and there are problems with working. A very good thing, and then let us see if there are any more than mere technical changes in this bill when it comes to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u131	Mr President! Health and safety at work is a very important issue and, as Mrs Juvonen testified, this issue is also very important. Nevertheless, it seems to me that this is in the nature of the fact that even from the opposition, the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities can promise that it will be able to deal with this issue reasonably quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u132	The debate is closed so quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u133	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. Up to 45 minutes are reserved for the referral. In the case of scheduled cases, the procedures agreed in advance shall be followed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u134	Mr President! Of course, the well-being of the Finnish state and its citizens is largely linked to the development of world trade and Finnish exports in addition to domestic production and consumption. In this context, the increase in export funding mandates is not only an investment in export financing, but also a positive employment development in Finland and a positive belief in entrepreneurship and investment in this country. The increase in mandates also aims to promote investments, and it should be noted that under the Export Guarantees Act Finnvera Plc can also promote investments promoting domestic exports. One example of this was the Äänekoski biorefinery plant. In addition to exporters, the increase in export financing powers will, of course, benefit from extensive subcontractor networks, which is why the economic benefits are widely shared in society. The Finnish State also benefits financially from this investment in the form of tax revenue and employment impact, among other things. There are currently uncertainties in world trade and, of course, this country alone is not in a position to influence them. However, the increase in export financing mandates will create tools to manage this uncertainty and will create opportunities for export companies to obtain export financing under competitive conditions. The issue is directly to safeguard the competitiveness of export companies with regard to financial elements, as bank solvency requirements, capital market developments and other changes have increasingly transferred the financing of capital-intensive export transactions to specialised credit institutions. According to the objectives of the Board of Directors Programme, the adequacy of Finnvera Plc's mandate will be ensured taking into account risk management needs, and now we are implementing this point and, of course, we are pursuing good employment and economic developments. At the beginning of November, the Government presented this bill to Parliament, which is now under discussion, and this is therefore a provision to ensure the adequacy of the OECD-conditioned and competitive financing of Finnish companies' export transactions. The proposal proposes to amend three laws: the Law on Publicly Supported Exports and Underline Credits and Interest Reimbursements, the Law on the State Special Finance Company and the Law on Government Export Guarantees. It is proposed to increase the maximum amount of export and under-credit credits and the interest rate adjustment facility of Finnish Export Credit Ltd from both current EUR 22 billion to EUR 33 billion. It is proposed to amend the Act on State Export Guarantees to increase the overall maximum liability for Finnvera's export guarantees and related hedging arrangements from EUR 27 billion to EUR 38 billion. In addition, the Act on the State Special Finance Company is proposed to be amended so that the maximum amount of outstanding capital and loan programmes guaranteed by Finnvera will be increased from 15 billion to 20 billion. The increase in the power to finance exports by means of a legislative measure does not increase the State’s responsibilities as such. Responsibilities will only increase at that stage if and hopefully when the mandates provide for future export financing. The increases in powers can be regarded as significant in many respects, but they are not estimated to have a direct impact on central government finances. Increasing the maximum amount of export guarantees by EUR 11 billion will increase the overall risk associated with export financing in the future. However, current and future risks are regularly assessed and monitored, and several different ways are being taken to protect against risks. The starting point is that Finnvera’s export financing activities are carried out at a very professional and high level, and if the export guarantee liability were realised in an individual case, the compensation would primarily be paid for the guarantee fee income of the payment year and then the funds of the Finnvera Export Guarantee and Special Guarantee Fund and the State Guarantee Fund will be used. These assets are estimated to cover the credit risk included in the guarantee portfolio. There has been no need to rely on the support of taxpayers, and this is not expected to be the case in the future. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The proposals show that, in addition to uncertain developments in world trade, there are also bright prospects of export-driven development, and we are rightly pleased with these positive prospects. In the first place, the power to finance exports means legitimate expectations for better export and economic development in this country and also that expectations for good employment development exist.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u135	Mr President! It is now an opportunity to ask the Minister how, from the point of view of this government, you can see whether these export guarantees now serve better than in previous years, for example, that we in the SME sector and businesses there are better able to obtain export guarantee money. Do we have criteria relating to the size of companies so that we can possibly combine, for example, the export of components from different companies together? When we discuss this, we usually talk about big cruisers and shipping orders. It is certainly clear that there would be hardly any luxury cruisers in this country if we did not have this system which allows us to have shipbuilding activities here on the scale that we have now had. Hopefully this good continuum will continue to develop and Finnish shipbuilding, which has shown its strength again, will rise from there in the evening sunset sector. More could be done to move this debate to where our equipment is sufficient for export guarantees for SMEs. If only the Minister has any information and lighting for the Members of Parliament, I would be happy to hear it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u136	Like this. There are no more requests to speak now than my Minister, Mr Kulmun.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u137	Mr President! Mr Myllykoski's question is very important when it comes to our diverse corporate position. In fact, the government negotiations already drew attention to the fact that we have, for example, the tools offered to Business Finland, and also the funding that enables companies to be directed to international growth and exports. In this context, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy is preparing a programme for exports and internationalisation, and before that, an entrepreneurial strategy will also be completed at the turn of the year, and they will be very closely linked. As far as this proposal is concerned, as the representative has said, of course, this is intended to keep this country and also to attract large investments in shipyards, ship-ordering investments, and because that market is very much competitive, if Finland wants to be there, then we must also have instruments like that. So the answer to the question is yes, which means that there is a desire for growth for such small companies, but then for large orders for ships.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u138	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. In the case of scheduled cases, the procedures agreed in advance shall be followed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u139	Mr President! The Government's proposal aims to reorganise some of the licensing, control and control tasks of health technology in the state administration in the future. This matter has been considered for a very long time and we have now come to the conclusion that we will eventually do what has been said a great deal. The purpose of the proposal is therefore to transfer the majority of the health technology tasks at the Social and Health Care Authorisation and Control Agency to the Medical Safety and Development Centre, which is in practice from Valvira to Fimea. It also proposes to provide for the right of the Centre for the Safety and Development of the Pharmaceuticals to charge a fee for its inspection. In addition, the provisions on appeals are amended to meet the requirements of the Law on judicial proceedings in administrative matters, which comes into force from the beginning of 20 C.E. Small details of the content are also being made. The proposal proposes to amend nine different laws: the Finnish Medicines Safety and Development Agency Act, the Law on the Law on the Licensing and Control of the Social and Health Sector, the Health Care Equipment and Equipment Act, the Law on the Restriction of the Use of Dangerous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, the Law on the Medical Use of Human Bodies, Tissues and Cells, the Biobank Act, the Law on Medical Research, the Blood Services Act and the Genetic Engineering Act. The transfer of tasks from Valvira to Fimea would be influenced by 14 posts and officials appointed to these posts. The transfer will lead to the concentration of expertise in the health technology sector and in the quality and safety of care products in the same place and thus to synergies. In the long term, better organisation of health technology-related tasks will improve the opportunities for industry actors to operate in Finland. The purpose of the Act is to enter into force on 1 January 2020. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u140	Mr President! Thank you, Minister Kiuru, for presenting the matter. We have a huge package in hand, and this is indeed coming to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. In this reading of this package of laws, concerns have arisen as to whether this bill may have implications for patient safety. SuPer has not supported the proposal to delegate tasks in its opinion, since this package has received a very large number of opinions and SuPer's opinion is one of them, since they believe that the transfer would jeopardise patient safety once the tasks of the authorities have been shared in contrast to the current one. Do you recognize, Minister, this concern and what you will answer as to whether patient safety will be maintained? I think it is very important that, when transfers and changes are made, sufficient resources are also reserved to carry out the tasks there and the importance of good cooperation and communication will continue to be emphasised. Will this also be the case with this law? As far as health technology is concerned in the care sector, of course it is necessary in today's Finland, in today's future. A robot never replaces a nurse or a pair of nurses' hands. The nurse is the person who is close to the patient and who treats the patient. Robotics is not suitable for that basic care assignment. Of course, the surgeries and the others are different. But how do you see, Minister, this patient safety theme? If I could get an answer to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u141	Mr President! Whenever we talk about health technology, it should be pointed out that it is one of Finland's most important growth areas. In health technology, widely understood is the issue of the health service system, its related technology, its technology exports, scientific research, teaching activities, pharmacies, all of this. In fact, we are dealing with a sector that currently employs much more than we have traditionally thought. Here in the previous debate, the importance of the maritime industry for the West Coast was mentioned. In Turku, for example, we have calculated that in fact, widely understood, health is a greater source of employment than this very important maritime industry, and in that very way we are counting on it according to the pharmaceutical industry, the production of fitness equipment, exports and all the lessons and trainings that I have listed above. There are some excellent health technology companies in Finland, such as Plantent, whose production accounts for 90 per cent of the exports. It represents state-of-the-art technology. In time, it has been the invention of an orthodontum imaging device that depicts teeth and jaws, which is happening in practice at the time of each dental appointment. In other words, whenever we talk about health technology, we are dealing with very important issues, and then it is really worth considering the state of these underlying administrative arrangements, which this bill is now dealing with, as the Minister said in his presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u142	Mr President! There is now a very large package on health technology in the referral debate. A thick bunch of papers, a big thing, and it has to do with a lot of things: medicine, Valvira, biobanks, Fimea. Fimea's headquarter was supposed to be in Kuopio, but it's not there. Fimea's responsibility seems to be increasing. The Minister has just told us that nine different laws exist here in terms of concepts, which means that this is really a big deal. It turned out that Fimea will therefore have more jobs. In a way, Fimea grows when more jobs are created. When does that Fimea headquarter move to Kuopio? The people of Eastern Finland are very interested in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u143	Mr President! I will not comment on this debate on the location of Fimea, because Fimea's control and responsibility lies with Minister Pekonen. In this case, however, it is the Valvira operating body. In this respect, I think that these different implementation options for these important services, which we are talking about today, i.e. for the licensing, control and control tasks of health technology, will be dealt with in a fairly good way from page 20. There were the same feelings when Mr Juvonen was already asking what would be the right implementation options to guarantee patient safety. As you can see, I have not been able to produce so many ten pages of materials in such a short time. This has long been the subject of thought. I just have to say, as Mr Lindén has already said here, that the world has only changed. The world has now changed in the direction that research-based information is increasingly needed in this sector. Valvira is rather a licensing authority when there is a steering role in addition to control and control tasks. In this respect, scientific research and the associated new challenges for the future in this sector are particularly highlighted. I am afraid that the current decentralised model, which is at stake here, does not correspond to the level of patient safety that would be required in the future. The world is changing so much. I also think that the main proposals in the proposal have well gone through precisely the way in which the critical tasks that are quite central to this day are decentralized. Amongst these key proposals, the explanatory statement can be found on page 19, which takes a stand on the tasks covered by the Tissue and Research Act and the tasks related to biobanks and genetic engineering, which, in this case, would now be concentrated in the same way as the control and control functions of medical devices and equipment, because this is a demanding area of work, the resources of which have been located in two branches in the past. In this respect, these shared resources and shared tasks will now be concentrated together. As I said, the committee has an important role to play here. You will now have to consider this issue with regard to the options for implementation. I have had a debate with Valvira on this matter. It has to be said that when I went to Valvira at a group steering meeting, they too saw in this government proposal a proposal for improvement. In this respect, I shall now submit this draft law to the committee for examination. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u144	Mr President! Thank you, Minister. It will certainly also be very extensive in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. The law also relates to biobanks. We have been going through biobank law and biobank issues here in several parliamentary years. After all, the biobank consists of samples and different types of human data. There may be biological samples and background information on persons, people, and information security is what has always emerged in these discussions on biobanks. I'm sure this information security will come up very strongly in the debate, too, or how do you see it? Has there been any feedback about the Biobank Act and any of these situations? Is there anything there to fix? Is there a potential risk? How, for example, will this bill take a stand on these risk assessments and ensure that people’s information security is maintained? It is very important that we have a biobank, and it is very important that we do everything we can for research and that people can count on their samples to remain there for security. But these always raise questions and reflections, and it is important that trust is also in that information security. Patient safety is an extremely important issue. I therefore hope that the whole parliament, the government and the opposition together, will do everything in our power to improve patient safety and reduce patient damage in Finland, because it is like putting money into a bank. One patient injury is too much: it brings costs to the state, it causes great human suffering, it causes care suffering to the person who follows the accident next to it. In that sense, we are in the same boat and we will do everything we can to reduce the damage to our patients in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u145	Mr President! In short, Mrs Juvonen would like to draw attention to the fact that it would have been easier to apply for legislative solutions to these major questions of the future, and this time it will not be easy. We're in the process of getting ready. Last season we saw that it is not easy to make legislation in these areas that is right. In that regard, we are now trying to do as well as possible, and the Constitutional Committee will give its last word at the end of this legislative process. But these things are still waiting for themselves, so they are not yet ready for preparation here in Parliament to be discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u146	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u147	Your Honor! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! This proposal proposes to amend the 15 law in the field of police administration by transforming the references to the repealed administrative law into references to the law on administrative proceedings. In addition, the spelling of references in the laws will be updated in accordance with the instructions of the Ministry of Justice. At the same time, unnecessary duplication of regulation with the new general law, as well as non-compliance with the general provision, will be eliminated. Mr President! On 19 February 2019 the Parliament adopted a law on legal proceedings in administrative matters, which repeals the Administrative Law as of 1 January 1920. The special laws in the field of police administration contain a number of references to the repealed Administrative Law and also contain procedural provisions for which general provisions will continue to be laid down in the new General Law on Administrative Procedures. The aim of this technical proposal is to bring the appeal provisions of police administrative legislation in line with the changes in the general legislation, i.e. this government proposal removes legal contradictions and clarifys the appeal to both applicants and persons handling them. The proposal does not have any effect which is different from the Government's proposal of 29/18 on the law on administrative matters and on certain related laws. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u148	Thank you — and then for the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u149	Mr President! I thank the Minister for this presentation. I only wanted to make a brief speech on the assumption that we will have a large number of technically analogue legislation here in plenary and committees, because when this law on administrative use was converted into such a law on administrative processes then, I understand in the spring in Parliament, this has had a great deal of spillover effects. This morning, in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we were discussing a piece of legislation which, of course, involved a few other issues, but it was this point that formed the central part of it. I would just like to draw attention here in plenary to the fact that, of course, legislation could be introduced in such a way that, when a law of this kind is amended, which has a knock-on effect on so many laws, all these would be dealt with in the same package, so that they would not become separate. Of course, when they come separately, this plenary will always have the opportunity to have a lively debate on the laws and the underlying issues. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u150	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 8/2019 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Chairman of the committee, represented by Vehviläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u151	Mr President! Report 8/2019 by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health from the Parliament includes the committee's comments on the Government's proposal 39/2019 from the Parliament. The Government's proposal proposes to amend the Health Insurance Act, the Unemployment Protection Act, the Child Welfare Act, the Child Support Act and the Act on Income. Interest-raising changes are intended to enter into force at the beginning of next year. The amendments to several different benefit laws aim to reduce inequalities, place emphasis on primary benefits and improve the livelihood of families with children, in particular single-parent families and families with multiple children. These actions are included in Prime Minister Antti Rinte's Government Programme, according to which the government is determined to address the risk of poverty and exclusion. The committee considers that the proposed improvements to the priority benefits are necessary to improve the livelihood of low-income people and to reduce the need for income support. It is appropriate for the whole of the social security system to shift the focus from last-time income support to primary benefits. It is proposed to increase the minimum daily allowance under the Sickness Insurance Act, i.e. sickness allowance, parental allowance and special care allowance by EUR 20 per month. The minimum daily allowance will rise to EUR 716.50 per month. The increase also applies to the minimum rehabilitation allowance. The increase in minimum daily allowances will increase central government expenditure by a total of EUR 4.4 million. It is also proposed to increase basic unemployment allowance and labour market support by EUR 20, or EUR 716.60 per month. The amount of the basic daily allowance constitutes the basic part of the earnings-related daily allowance, so the increase in the basic daily allowance also increases the earnings-related daily allowance and the work-linked allowance. According to the proposal, it is estimated that 80% of the recipients of earnings-related daily allowance will increase the benefit by EUR 11 per month and by approximately 20 per cent by EUR 33.10 per month. The increase in unemployment security increases central government expenditure for benefit expenditure on basic security by an estimated EUR 48 million and earnings-related security by EUR 15 million. The increase in labour market support will increase municipal expenditure by an estimated EUR 9.6 million. In addition, the expenditure of the Employment Fund is estimated to increase by EUR 3.6 million. Mr President! According to the Government's proposal, the increase in the basic daily allowance for unemployment benefit and, as a result, earnings-related daily allowance may have a negative impact on employment. The committee stresses that the main objective of the proposal is to reduce poverty and inequality by emphasising the importance of the primary benefit system for the income of beneficiaries. A change in benefits can have both negative and positive effects on employment. The Committee believes that efforts should be made to assess further the employment impact of the preferential increases, although the impact on employment of these increases is likely to be limited. Increases in daily allowance benefits reduce the need for last-time income support. Income support expenditure is estimated to decrease by around EUR 6.4 million. Reduced dependency on income support can contribute to encouraging the acceptance of work. However, the committee draws attention to the fact that benefit increases can also reduce the amount of general housing allowance. According to the proposal, the amount of general housing allowance will be reduced by EUR 6.72 per person receiving an increased benefit in the case of households whose income exceeds the income threshold for full housing allowance. The Committee welcomes the fact that the increase in the income of persons who are below the income threshold for full aid, such as those living alone, who receive full labour market support or basic daily allowance, does not affect the amount of housing allowance. The minimum daily allowances under the Health Insurance Act were last increased from the beginning of 2018 to EUR 616 per month and from the beginning of 2019 to the level of labour market support to EUR 696.50 per month. The basic unemployment allowance and labour market support have last been increased by a flat-rate increase of EUR 100 from the beginning of 2012. However, no index increases have been made to basic security between 2015 and 2019, which has reduced the level of basic security for the unemployed in particular. The proposed increases partly offset the impact of index freezing and cutbacks. However, on the basis of the report received by the committee, the minimum daily allowances under the Health Insurance Act and the basic security for unemployment benefit, even after the proposed increases, do not necessarily guarantee a reasonable minimum level of consumption. The Committee considers it essential that the development of basic security benefits and services linked to benefits and the reduction of dependency on income support be continued in the context of the reform of social security. The aim of basic security is to provide adequate income and living standards for all. In order to improve the status of families with children, the proposal proposes an increase of 10 euros per month in child allowances for families with multiple children from the fourth child, a single parent increase of 10 euros per month in child benefit and a maintenance allowance of 7 euros per month. At the same time, the basic part of the single parent's income support will be increased so that families dependent on income support will also benefit from the single parenting rate of the child's allowance. In the case of non-single parents, increases in child allowances and maintenance allowance will reduce the amount of income support to be paid. The increase in child allowances is estimated to increase central government expenditure by EUR 26.5 million and the basic income support expenditure by EUR 1.5 million. The increase in maintenance support increases central government expenditure by EUR 9 million and reduces income support expenditure by EUR 0.7 million. According to the Government proposal, single-parent families, families with multiple children and families with small children under the age of three face income difficulties more often than others. The Committee welcomes the fact that increases in child benefit are targeted at single-parent families and families with multiple children at the highest risk of poverty. The increase in maintenance allowance also has a small impact on inequality and income differentials, especially for the single parent family and children living in them. Increasing the daily allowance under the Health Insurance Act by EUR 20 will also increase the minimum amount of parental allowances and special care allowance, which will improve the position of all low income families with children and reduce the need for income support. However, the Committee draws attention to the fact that the value of transfers for all families with children has deteriorated since the 1990s and that the real level of child supplements is about 30% lower than in the 1990s. Due to the lack of index protection for child supplements, the level of child supplements is lagging behind the development of the cost level. The Committee considers it essential that efforts be continued to improve the livelihood of low-income families and to reduce the poverty of families with children. The committee's report contains an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u152	Mr President! In accordance with the Government Programme, the Government proposes changes to a number of different types of benefit aimed at reducing inequalities, emphasising primary benefits and improving the livelihood of families with children, especially single-parent families and families with multiple children. With these proposals, the government is determined to address the risk of poverty and exclusion, as promised. The Government takes care of the development of the standard of living of all Finns and a more even distribution of income. Greater consideration will be given to the risk factors and the overgeneration of disadvantaged people. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers that the proposed improvements to the primary benefits are necessary to improve the livelihood of low-income people and to reduce the need for income support. It is appropriate for the whole of the social security system to shift the focus from last-time income support to primary benefits. The minimum daily allowances under the Health Insurance Act were last increased from the beginning of 2018 to EUR 616 per month and at the beginning of 2019 to EUR 696.50 per month in labour market support. The basic unemployment allowance and labour market support have last been increased by a flat-rate increase of EUR 100 from the beginning of 2012. However, no index increases have been made to basic security between 2015 and 2019, which has reduced the level of basic security for the unemployed in particular. The proposed increases partly offset the impact of index freezes and cuts. Mr President! According to the Government proposal, single-parent families, families with multiple children and families with small children under the age of three face income difficulties more often than others. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health welcomes the fact that increases in child benefit are targeted at single-parent families and families with multiple children at the highest risk of poverty. The increase in maintenance allowance also has a small impact on inequality and income differentials, especially for single-parent families and children living in them. Increasing the daily allowance under the Health Insurance Act by EUR 20 will also increase the minimum amount of parental allowances and special care allowance, which will improve the position of all low income families with children and reduce the need for income support. Mr President! In its report, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health also drew attention to the fact that the real value of all transfers of families with children has deteriorated since the 1990s and that the real level of child supplements is about 30% lower than in the 1990s. Due to the lack of index protection for child supplements, the level of child supplements is lagging behind the development of the cost level. The committee considered it necessary to continue to work on improving the livelihood of low-income families and reducing the poverty of families with children.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u153	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! There are points to support in the government proposal, but there are also points to which we Finns have protested. The government's proposal increases child supplements from the third and fourth child. In the opinion of the Finns Party, the increase should have been since the first child, and we also have a motion to amend the article, which we propose to raise the child benefit from the first child, and also a statement that I will present here but also, of course, later. In the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has also agreed with this objection. True Finns are concerned about the fall in birth rate and the poverty of families with children in Finland. The situation of families with children has deteriorated significantly compared to the 1990s and according to the THL study, the poverty rate has tripled from 1995 to 2007 and has since remained at around 10% throughout the 2010s. In 2014, there were 63,400 poor families with children and 126,000 children. According to THL, poverty among families with young children is the most dangerous, as it is most often reflected in adults. Poverty is inherited. It is therefore worrying that poverty has now increased in the families of young children. Society's support for families with children did not increase in years of growth, but in the recession years in the early 1990s and the 2010s families with children have been cut. In the tax years 2015 to 2017, the child allowance for income tax in force was not extended from 2018 onwards, but there was no corresponding increase in child allowances. The True Finns feel that the child allowance should be refunded to earned income tax. In the case of child supplements, it would be justified and fair to allocate EUR 6 million in the budget for raising the child allowance to increase the child allowance for the first child. This would target all families with children. True Finns consider it important to give a signal in society that children should be made in this country and that society supports families with children since the birth of the first child — and gives all families with children that raise. Well, now the government is raising child supplements only for families with many children with at least four children. True, the True Finns stress that all families with children are equally important, but we want to send the signal that the child benefit will rise from the first child. In particular, social support should be increased for the acquisition of the first child. Indeed, the signal must be given that society encourages the establishment of a family and secures the livelihood of all families with children. We want to encourage a substantial increase in the child allowance for the first child, and the EUR 6 million that the government has provided for an increase in the child allowance is not enough at all. It is about money, but EUR 6 million is not enough. In fact, the True Finns make a statement that the government should find out about the substantial increase in child benefit from the first child. Unfortunately, the government did not support our proposal, but it was supported by the Coalition Party and the Finns of Peru in this protest. In addition, we are proposing an amendment to the paragraph, which is to say that the child allowance is EUR 95.82 per child per calendar month, and here we are looking at the small increase that totals the EUR 6 million overall — which is not enough at all — we need more substantial increases. But this is a good start, and I would like the government to work towards finding out that a raise is possible from the first child. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u154	Mr President! There were many good elements in Mr Juvonen's speech. Perhaps as much as we were able to make it clear to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, where we are both, including the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, what would be the cost of these extensions in relation to this child allowance, that if an increase of EUR 10 were to be made from the start of the first child, it would be EUR 65 million more, and then if we had an increase of EUR 10 for all children who receive child benefit, almost a million children, it would be EUR 120 million more. I would like to ask Mr Juvos: do you have the EUR 65 million proposed in your alternative budget for this proposal for an increase of EUR 10 from the first child?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u155	And Congressman Juvonen. Then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u156	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you to the chairman of the committee for a good question. The True Finns suggest that measures are being explored to make an increase since the first child. We understand, of course, that the EUR 10 increase is a great deal and is currently limited to the third and fourth children and that it is certainly not possible to make such an increase immediately. It's a big raise, of course, but that signal and that equalisation between families with children is important. In other words, we, the Finns, see that in society we have to take action to ensure that people dare to have children and families with children do well, and the signal that is given by this government proposal that only third and fourth families of children are supported and from there on, we believe that it is necessary to pay attention to it. And when we talk here in particular about the fact that the birth rate is falling, we would see that it is important that action is also taken on it, and that is the signal we want to give.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u157	And the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u158	Mr President! Child benefits are very important for families, very important. I am sure we all fully agree on this in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. True Finns consider all families with children important, and we think it would be good to raise the child allowance for the first child. After all, the government is now proposing that child benefit be increased from the fourth child to the fourth child. If that increase were made from the first, it would apply to all families with children. It would be more balanced and would affect all families with children. It is important to support families, to secure the livelihood of families. It would therefore be justified for us to find out how it would be possible to raise all families with children. There has been an objection to this, which has also been shared by the Assembly. I support the objection made by Mr Juvose, the amendment to the section and the proposal for a statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u159	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the Health Insurance Act, the Unemployment Protection Act, the Child Benefits Act, the Child Support Act and the Act on Income Support. Minimum daily allowance benefits under the Sickness Insurance Act would be increased. The increase would apply to sickness and parental allowance and special care allowance at the minimum amount. The increase would also apply to the minimum rehabilitation allowance. The amount of the basic daily allowance under the Unemployment Security Act would also be increased, which also applies to labour market support equal to the basic daily allowance. In order to improve the status of families with children, as has already been pointed out in several debates, a fourth child supplement for families with multiple children is proposed. A single parent's increase in child benefit and maintenance allowance would also be increased. The Act on Income Support would be amended to allow families receiving income support to benefit from an increase of EUR 10 in the single-parent distribution of child benefit. Mr President! One of the most important tasks of society is to care for children and young people, but also the most vulnerable. These changes would target support and care for the families most in need and aim to reduce inequalities. This will also help target efforts to tackle the risk of poverty and exclusion.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u160	Mr President! The Government bill proposes changes to a number of different benefit laws aimed at reducing inequalities, improving the livelihood of families with children, especially single-parent families and families with multiple children. This is something to be welcomed. In the Government’s proposal, minimum daily allowances under the Health Insurance Act, i.e. sickness allowance, parental allowance and special care allowance, would be increased by EUR 20 per month, and the increase would also apply to the minimum rehabilitation allowance and also to the basic daily allowance under the Unemployment Protection Act, and it is proposed to increase labour market support by EUR 20 per month. It is significant that according to the Government's proposal, the increase in the basic unemployment allowance and the earnings-related daily allowance may have negative effects on employment, and it is therefore necessary to monitor the situation in the future. However, the increases are small enough to assume that they would have no significant impact. However, increases in daily allowance benefits may reduce the need for last resort income support. Changes in families with children are welcome. In the presentation, the single parent increase in child benefit will be increased by EUR 10. It is not much, but even small ones are needed for single parents, yet single parents are clearly at risk in terms of poverty and also in terms of the exclusion of children. Maintenance allowance will be increased by EUR 7 per month and child allowances for families with multiple children by EUR 10 per month. After all, the explanatory statement of the government proposal already mentions that single-parent families, families with multiple children and families with small children under the age of three face more difficulties than others. The government has decided to target the increase in the child allowance only since the fourth child, and yet it would be advisable to target the first child, because in the case of the first child, purchases are often the biggest and also expenditure, and at the same time the signal would be given that we want children, children in our society are welcome, and we could support those young families. It was specifically mentioned here that families of children under the age of three are in a clear risk group. Child benefits are also lagging behind, i.e. the real value of current transfers has deteriorated since the 1990s, and the real level of child supplements is about 30% lower than in the 1990s. And when you know, for example, in the capital region, the rise in housing costs and the rise in the general price level and various hobby fees, child benefits have fallen behind and the situation of families with children has become more challenging. And that is why, even though this is a relatively small increase, we agree with the protest of the Finns on the fact that the fourth child benefit would be paid to the first child. Then it also applies to families with more than one child. However, we would like to encourage children to have children, and we would also like to take into account the fact that these needs come from the first child, but we need to obtain different supplies and others. It is, of course, a question of money, but it is also a question of values: how much are we prepared to invest in children and in the services of families with children? There will be no increase in the birth rate unless we actually show in concrete terms how children are welcome here. Of course, money does not solve it, but it is an important support and help when children are born. We know, however, that the child also brings with it expenses in addition to love.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u161	Mr President! First of all, on what I referred to in that presentation: this government proposal also raises the basic security of the unemployed, i.e. labour market support and then the basic daily allowance for the unemployed, by EUR 20 per month. Indeed, when we make an increase in basic security, it also increases the levels of earnings-related unemployment allowance because of the legal link. And, as I pointed out, 80% of earnings-related recipients have this increase of EUR 11 per month, but 20% have EUR 33 per month and the rate is EUR 33 per month. In its own opinion, the National Institute for Health and Welfare (THL) drew attention to this link in the committee and said that it is also partly difficult to make extensive increases in the level of basic security because it immediately increases the proportion of earnings. I personally think that it would be a good idea to look at this issue in the parliamentary working group on social security reform. I don't think that the connection should be completely removed. I understand that it is the case that an employee who belongs to a cashier is always paying insurance premiums, but this difference here is quite large. Mr President! Actually, I came here on the podium to talk about raising the child benefit. It has been said, as has already been said several times here, that this EUR 10 increase in child benefit specifically applies to multi-child families since the fourth child and then also to a single parent — that is to say, this is justified from the point of view of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, in the sense that the most vulnerable are the families with multiple children and single-parent families. I myself share this view that if money is limited, it will be targeted where it is most needed. But I would really like to reiterate what has already been said in this debate: if we had made this EUR 10 increase in the child allowance from the first child, it would have cost EUR 65 million more, and if an increase had been made in each child benefit, it would be EUR 120 million. Let's talk about a lot of money. That is why I would also like to ask, as far as the voting is concerned, when you agreed with this protest from the Finns on whether your alternative budget has provided funding for these extensions in relation to child benefit. But then, Mr President, I personally feel the same way that it is necessary to develop the child allowance system as a whole, so I share the concerns of the opposition. We should find ways of developing this whole system and also funding: where, on the whole, sustainable means could be found. I myself have thought about the following, which I am now doing in a way like a proposal for consideration, since now it is a fact that we have a reduced birth rate and much less children born. If you look at the last years, from 2017 to 2018, 2,700 fewer children were born. This year's forecast is also that more than 2,000 fewer children are likely to be born than in the previous year. I personally think it might be a good idea for us to use this child supplement, which currently has EUR 1.37 billion in child allowances, as a result of the so-called reduction in the age groups, to develop the child allowance system as a whole. In fact, we have a fourth amending budget here at the moment. There is a proposal to reduce this item by EUR 13 million — certainly because the need for child benefit is less than anticipated for this year. My logic is that if we are able to reduce it, we would also be able to increase funding from there in an unlimited way to the child allowance system itself. I looked a little like this as finger training, what this could mean. Specifically, the child allowance is approximately 95 euros from the first child and then up to approximately 170 euros from the whole point of view. If we were to calculate the child benefit at EUR 100 per month and if we were to have 3000 fewer children, that would be EUR 3.6 million per year. When child benefit is paid until the child reaches the age of 17, it could be estimated that during the whole child supplementation cycle, the savings would be about EUR 60 million in total for this 3,000 reduction. So let's talk about quite a lot of money, all in all. In fact, statistics, including Kela, show that we received child benefit for the first time in the past year for under one million children. This is the first time that less than one million people went to Finland on this issue of child allowance. On the other hand, statistics also show that the highest amount of child benefit is paid to families of one child, never before has there been so many families of one child as recipients of child benefit. Here in our report it was pointed out that the real level of child supplements is now around 30% lower than in the 1990s. This inevitably raises the question of the indexation of child benefit, which is probably what many others think. I myself think that if we go together to develop this child supplement system better in support of families with children, this index issue should also be assessed together at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u163	Mr President! The fall in birth rates and the poverty of families with children are issues that need to be worried about. All families with children are important, and that is why it would be important to provide better support for families since the first child, and that is where social support should be added. We need to give a signal that society encourages the establishment of a family and secures the livelihood of all families with children. As an incentive, the Finns would like to raise the child allowance for the first child considerably. The EUR 6 million provided by the government for child benefit is not enough for proper effectiveness. Why don't the government withdraw the total increase in party support of $6 million and transfer it to children's allowances, for example? That way, the money would be spent sensibly. So here's one model that you can already take the money from. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u164	Mr President! Parliament is discussing the construction of a child-friendly Finland this week, and this government proposal is already a small answer to it. The aim of the Centre is to reduce poverty among families with children in particular. The main beneficiaries of benefit increases are the most vulnerable people. Of course, it is worth remembering that minimum daily allowances were raised during the last parliamentary term and also contributed to family situations, but just as Mr Laiho said here, the child brings both love and spending. There are many single parents and families living in different parts of Finland below the poverty line, and the real value of child supplements has fallen by 30 per cent from the 1990s. So this proposal raises the child supplements and the single parent raise of many children’s families. These increases were agreed to be targeted specifically at these families in the government negotiations, because according to the studies, the risk of poverty is highest in these families, i.e. the money available for distribution was targeted where it was most needed. I agree with many representatives here that it is good to look at the child allowance system as a whole in the longer run and to raise child benefit for all children more widely and comprehensively. Child allowance is the most effective way of providing financial support for families with children, and that is why it is the right instrument. Representative The Vehviläinen raised a fine proposal that the money saved in the event of children being reduced should be used specifically for the development of the child allowance system, and I warmly support this proposal. Of course, we can support families with children in many ways. There is also a need for concrete help for homes and flexibility in working life. It is important that we do everything we can to ensure that families with children — families with all kinds of children — are well.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u165	Mr President! Of course, it is always worthwhile to raise the benefits of families with children. That is, in principle, clear. At this present birth rate in Finland, we need all the children, the Finnish babies that can be brought here. If the question is whether 65 or 120 million dollars are big or small to promote this goal, then if such money could solve the birth problems of this country, then it would have been worth investing in it last year. I warmly support the amendments tabled by Mr Juvose, which have the main thrust of which is that money should be invested specifically in supporting the acquisition of the first child, because the biggest threshold for starting a family is usually the acquisition of its first child. That is the point in which society should develop some sort of insulating product, an offer that cannot be refused. Seriously, starting a family is a big decision and a lot of things. It must combine conditions and attitude. Society can help both, perhaps more concretely with money, but employment and the cost of living, living and moving, of course, ultimately determine its economic situation as a whole. But at the end of the day, everything will go away. We should combat selfishness and climate anxiety. This topic will probably be discussed further in the discussion on a family-friendly Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u166	Mr President! The economic livelihood of families with children is very important and is particularly important in these current conditions of record low birth rates. This government proposal to raise child supplements is a good measure, but unfortunately this proposal would only concern families with at least four children. True Finns consider it essential that the increases in child supplements should be directed at all families, i.e. families with one, two and three children. That is why our representatives in the committee have tabled this amendment. However, it did not receive sufficient support in committee, but I hope that in the forthcoming plenary vote it will get a majority. Mr President! In order to improve the financial situation of families with children, the Board of Directors should also include in its list of measures the return of child income tax deductions in force between 2015 and 2017. However, in autumn 2017, the Sipilä Government decided to abolish this well-functioning tax deduction despite the response of the Finns of Finland at the time. Since then, we have consistently argued in our alternative budgets that Parliament should return to the law the deduction of children from income tax. It would bring significant tax benefits for all families with children below a certain income threshold. At best, the net benefit could be up to EUR 400 per year for a family with low or medium incomes. This return to child allowance is also part of our alternative budget this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u167	Mr President! Mr Vehviläinen made an excellent speech a moment ago, and I myself have some of the same things, but on such an important point it certainly does not hurt. Of course, the fact that figures are presented in the oral speech is never easy for listeners, but I would like to say the following: In 2017, according to the National Pensions Institute’s Annual Book, EUR 1.366 billion of child allowances were paid in Finland, i.e. EUR 1366 million. On average per child, it was EUR 112.85 and the real value in 2000 was EUR 136.58, so the reduction from 2000 has been 17.4%. A reduction of 30% over the longer term has also been mentioned here. In 2017, the number of children entitled to child supplements was 1003635, and, as Mr Vehviläinen said, last year's statistics indicate that for the first time less than one million people have gone now. Of these children, 166,000, or 16.6 per cent, were in families with one parent. Of all families with children, 43.5 per cent were families of one child, 38.7 per cent families of two children, 12.9 per cent families of three children, and four or more children were five per cent of all families. Now that we are talking about child supplements, we all understand that if we have 6 million or if we have 10 million, that is the sum that needs to be carefully considered. In my opinion, it is not right to allocate it to everyone, because it produces less than one euro per child per month for child benefit. That is why, in this government proposal, it has now been targeted in a different way, which has been mentioned many times. In my opinion, the real debate must then take place, as has been pointed out here, whether we have EUR 65 million available, whether we have EUR 120 million available or whether we have EUR 200 million available, which would mean that the real value of child supplements would increase to what it has been in the past. These are the real big questions, and I myself suggest that in a few years' time in Finland, no matter what composition the government has, we will also have to have such a debate in the context of this declining birth rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u168	Mr President! True Finns feel that families with children can be supported by fiscal means. As Mr Savio has already said and Mr Mäkelä has also said, the Finns of Finland have already had this refund of the child deduction of income tax within several alternative budgets, and that is what we will be presenting in this future alternative budget. In other words, the Finns of Finland believe that the child allowance should be refunded to earned income tax. That would be one way to support families with children. It must be remembered that the equal tax is the same for all, whether the mother or father of a family with children or a pensioner, is aged. Food, housing, mobility and heating cost everyone just as much. Price increases and tax increases do hit those low - income people badly, and they are often just families with children, single - parent families, older ones. We Finns support the increases made to single parents, so we do not make any changes to them in our protest. We just want to give the signal that every child born is important and that every family with children should be supported. We would have preferred to see equal support, in the name of fairness, from the first child onwards. Then it would be a signal that we want to support all families with children. Today we have talked a lot about matters coming to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and then these are our reports. It is true that we are in the same boat and we have to consider how to reduce the poverty of families with children, how to support families in coping with everyday life, how a father can be with children, how a mother can go to work, have good early childhood education and have reasonable fees. We are going to have to work for many more years here for these measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u169	Mr President! In several speeches, reference has been made here to the fact that the decrease in birth rates leads to a decrease in the relative number of children in Finnish society, and it was also given figures that the number of child supplements will decrease by less than one million children, so less than one million children will receive child supplements in Finnish society. So this is a fact of this fall in natural population growth through birth rates. I think that the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Mr Vehviläinen, took an innovative initiative here. He has been thinking about it, and when it is obvious that the decrease in the number of children will bring savings even in child supplements, would it not be reasonable for it to be used as if within that child supplement system, so that we would be able to raise those child supplements, even if it were, and especially when the situation is that the real value of child supplements has fallen by one third since the 1990s, in the last 25 years, which is, of course, a significant weakening in this respect? That's why we should invest in child supplements and invest in them. Here's some news for me, too. I had imagined that there was an index system in child supplements in a genuine way, the same type as the index in national pensions, i.e. the index linked to the consumer price index, but I understand that it has been deleted here. During the eight years I myself have been away from this Parliament, this system has disappeared. I also support the idea, at least the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, that it would be worth considering restoring this index, so that the level of child supplements would be maintained at least by an increase in consumer prices, and it would then be worth highlighting these increases in terms of needs, perhaps with a stronger emphasis on certain family structures. But the fact that so much alarm and concern has been raised in Finnish society — perhaps the word "concerned" is wrong here, but the alarm — about this drop in birth rates at all is unnecessary in that we are talking about an inevitable phenomenon. This is a completely natural phenomenon that, when well-being rises, fertility inevitably falls. We know very well that fertility is linked to mortality, especially infant mortality, and when structures are developed in societies where this infant mortality rate is reduced, mortality in general changes, it inevitably changes the birth rate. This is the phase of explosive population growth for a couple of generations, for 50 years, when infant mortality falls but the birth rate remains high. This population explosion is currently living in Africa, and Finland lived in the same situation almost a hundred years ago. So with demographic analysis globally we see that this is an inevitable phenomenon in all welfare...
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u172	Mr President! The aim of this bill is to reduce inequalities, emphasise primary benefits and improve the livelihood of families with children, especially single-parent families and families with multiple children. This bill is about a change of direction, because now the government is determined to tackle the risk of poverty and exclusion. The aim of this government is to ensure the development of the standard of living and a more even distribution of income for all Finns. It is appropriate for the whole of the social security system to shift the focus from last-time income support to primary benefits. However, it goes without saying that this bill is by no means sufficient to eradicate poverty. It does not even sufficiently reduce that poverty, and therefore effective and effective measures must continue to be taken. But now we've turned the sled in the right direction to go. I too am particularly concerned about the poverty of families with children, because that is a growing problem in society. It is estimated that at present more than 11% of all children live in poor families. As has been said here, for example, at the mouth of the chairman of the committee, Mr Vehviläinen, the real value of all transfers of families with children has deteriorated since the 1990s and the real value of child supplements is about 30% lower than in the 1990s. It has also been pointed out that, precisely because of the lack of index protection for child supplements, the level of child supplements is lagging behind the development of the cost level. As I said, it is necessary to continue to work to improve the livelihood of low-income families and to reduce poverty in families with children, because we know from many studies that poverty experienced as a child is often reflected negatively there to adulthood.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u173	Mr President! Many of these children’s and many - child families had been discussed here that they would rather have added the child’s allowance instead of the many - child families to the first child. That is why we have agreed with this objection made by the Finns of Peru. After all, many families also have a need for child allowance, but their situations are very diverse, and it cannot be directly concluded that their situation or problems in the family are due to a lack of child benefit. There are quite a few factors that affect it. On the other hand, it is known that, from the very beginning of the first child, those funds are needed to obtain supplies. But I am very happy to welcome Mr Vehviläinen's suggestion that the decreasing birth rates should allow for consideration of other benefits for children or this index-linked nature, because in fact child allowances are significantly behind and no significant increases have been made. That is why we hope that this will move forward and that we will be able to look at child allowances again during this term of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u174	Mr President! In this debate, I have first of all enjoyed this diverse and constructive approach to both opposition and government parties, and I have perhaps identified the two major lines: firstly, child poverty and, secondly, concern for the demographic structure and future development of our father country. I should also like to add my voice to these praises which the President-in-Office, Mr Vehviläinen, has given to this idea that we would think, for example, that in this amending budget, when we ‘saved’ EUR 13 million, it would be as if the unused reserve would be calculated for up to 17 years,as the children receive support. I think this idea is absolutely brilliant, and perhaps we could even refine it so that 20 would be a so-called zero-year year, from which we would start thinking about these so-called savings that could then be allocated, perhaps not to all families with children but to those most in need of support, so that it would be of the greatest benefit, because it is, however, that if we talk about just a few million or a little more than another ten million, then when it is distributed to everyone, then the benefit may not be so great — even if all the additional contributions to families with children and their livelihoods are very, very welcome. Well, then, the second big question that we need to ask here is that, not just in the future, as Mr Lindén said, this demographic development in the country of the father, which, as has now been seen on the basis of statistics, is quite alarming. In the future, we will have provincial centres that will grow, and in 2040, according to forecasts, only a capital that will grow — only a capital that will grow. This development is certainly not in the interests of Finland as a whole and is not in the interests of this beloved country. Here we should consider the various ways in which we can support families with children, how we can support the fact that those who want to set up a family are able to set it up, and how we can bring about such a child-friendly society. We should also have faith in the future for young people who do not necessarily have a partner yet, or if there is a partner, there may not be jobs, or if there is a partner and jobs, it may not be possible to believe that we now have all the conditions for having a child. This is something that we must above all improve. It is not always a question of not wanting a child, it is a question of feeling that the situation is not sufficiently stable, that the job or employment situation is not yet sufficient, even if there is a one-year or two-time period, or only another parent who is going to have a job. This is such a big picture that we need to talk about this first and foremost in this Chamber about how we respond to this demographic problem or challenge, which Mrs Kiljunen has also highlighted very well. I hope there will be a separate debate on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u175	Mr President! I personally wanted to comment on this presentation by the Finns, where all families with children would be paid EUR 10 from their first child. Personally, I would definitely support this, and I believe that quite a few people in this House would agree with this. On the other hand, I am not in favour of the current allocation for this proposal being allocated to all children, because according to the calculations it would be about 94 cents if I did not misremember, and I think it would be a bad idea. But now, if we return to this proposal that EUR 10 be paid from the first child, then we should think about where to get the money for this. Unfortunately, there is a great deal of criticism in this Chamber about the government that the government is now wasting all the time and spending too much money, and then there are sometimes proposals in the direction that too little money is being spent. In my view, the government has now rightly taken the lead from the fact that it is single-parent families, multi-child families and families of small children under the age of three who face the greatest difficulties in making a living, and that is why these families have gone ahead of them. This has become a number of good speeches, and this work certainly needs to be continued, and I too am keen to support the proposal by the chairman of the committee, Mr Vehviläinen, to possibly transfer these so-called savings to these increases in child allowances in the future. However, we must also take note of the fact that, if I have not got the wrong idea now, we are talking here about an additional amount of tens of millions of euros if this EUR 10 is paid to the first child, and even Mr Koponen's commendable proposal for this EUR 6 million is not enough. In this respect, account must now be taken of the fact that the government has gone well in this area and remember that work must continue on this important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u176	Mr President! I am not in favour of child-reduction because child-reduction is a way of providing financial support for families with children, in which the poorest families with children are excluded from support, and I find it counterproductive to provide financial support for families with children in such a way that those who need it most are then deprived of it. If families with children were to be supported by fiscal means, this could be, for example, a reduced VAT or tax exemption for certain family children. In this case, like a child benefit, it would hit all families with children and would be an income transfer from childless citizens to families with children. But child reduction in itself is an unusually inefficient and irrational way of supporting families if the aim is to reduce child poverty. After all, we have traditionally supported families with children primarily through a comprehensive service system and universal child benefit, and these are both logical solutions in a situation where we have solidarity with pensions: it is logical, sensible and fair that we also have solidarity with those future contributors. But if, in a situation where the government is constantly squeezing about excessive consumption, tax reforms that benefit families with children who pay only good income or taxes are to be carried out separately, it is by no means a sensible social policy solution. As far as this birth rate is concerned, there is no evidence that giving money to families with children would cause people to have more children. On the contrary, there is evidence that many children are born under very few circumstances, and we do not really know at the moment why Finland's rapidly decreasing birth rates are precisely the result. My own guess as to what might be effective is that there would be measures that would make society more child-friendly in general, so that having a child would not shut an adult out of the everyday life in which he has previously lived, and thus reduce that threshold. And, of course, the means of raising the birth rate, which we certainly know will work, is the abolition of pensions. Let us put an end to our pension system, so the birth rate will certainly rise quickly, because in countries where there is no old age security,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u177	Mr President! We must take up this previous speech immediately. At least it is clear that if we are presented here in Finland on the cover of a newspaper with red crosses of babies, it certainly does not make this atmosphere any more positive for families with children. And then it is worth noting that tax deductions are never just for the well-earned, but also for ordinary people who work, even low-paid people. In this population pyramid, we have had 1.4 children per woman in 2018. In view of this demographic trend, it is unusual that this child allowance should only be taken from the fourth child. In this context, it is good to point out that, for example, there is a baby boom in Estonia when we have started to support it, especially since the first child, and Poland, which has been much maligned, has been excellent in its family policy with even higher child allowance than we do here in Finland. It is EUR 120 since the first child, and according to the World Bank, poverty in families with children has been reduced from almost 12% to 3%. What matters is how we support and encourage it here. Today, when young working people often work on a temporary basis, part-time work and worry about their own livelihoods, there is a certain way that society has a duty to help at this point. It is precisely now that we are lacking babies in our country that, calculatedly, three children would be such an appropriate number, so that the payers and members of this nation will continue to be in sufficient numbers to sustain society. It would seem more comfortable and sensible to invest perhaps in that initial phase than in the final phase, for we do not have as many families as many and certainly do not have those who insist on raising from two to four, but instead from one to two or possibly three would have the support we can show in this country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u178	Congressman Koponen. At the same time, we are opening up that opportunity for reply because it seems that this debate has taken on the character of the debate. Then we will go to the one-minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u179	Mr President! It is wonderful to see that Mr Berg immediately took this EUR 6 million bait, that is to say, that unnecessary party subsidies are being removed. Since he also told us that it was not enough, what if it was now 7 million of the government’s special assistants? In other words, it will once again increase the amount of money spent on child supplements. I'm glad the government party heard the scream right away.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u180	Mr President! Representative Kontula: I also do not believe that the birth rate of economic pop forces will increase, i.e. I feel the same way, but I am absolutely convinced that our statistics and studies tell us that we have real poverty in families with children in this country, that we must be able to respond to it through the child supplement system. Indeed, as the report states, the real value is 30% lower than in the 1990s. That is why I think it is important to be able to develop this child allowance system better so that it can really respond to this poverty in the family. In concrete terms, it can be seen there in the low-income families as to whether children can have a hobby, whether they can buy supplies like some guy’s, and I think this is really important.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u181	Mr President! So much of Mr Berg's comment I have to correct that the Finns of Peru share this EUR 6 million that the government has proposed since the first child. In other words, we do not have a clear EUR 10 increase here, because this government proposal is not going to give it, but it is the EUR 6 million that we would share more fairly in our view. Young people are afraid to start families today. It is true that no money will encourage them to have that baby. We need to make a policy here so that young people dare to start families. Among other things, climate policy and intimidation by the fact that the world is dying and life is impossible cause fear in young people: they think that they do not make children into such a world. By means of taxation, the True Finns would intervene by returning the child’s deduction. That would be our way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u182	Mr President! A little sarcasticly, Mr Kontula finished his speech that, when the pension system was abolished, the longer run would quickly raise the birth rate. This was sarcasm, naturally, but of course it contains the seed of truth. That is how it is that in societies where this old age security is unmanaged and where there is no community, at the level of society, it is ensured that older people are able and able to cope, of course, to maintain a large family size and a high birth rate. This is, of course, a fact. When societies develop, as we are already well-developed societies, we will inevitably be at a time when global population growth will be halted. It has to be stopped because there are limited resources on this planet. We are already in a situation where increasing population growth has been brought to a halt. On a global scale, Africa is still an unhappy continent in this respect. But in Europe we simply have to adapt to it,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u183	Mr President! Representative Vehviläinen: So that there is no misconception, I am in favour of raising and tying child supplements to the most generous index possible. In this situation, we should have both the funds and the crying need. Unfortunately, a majority has not yet been found in Parliament, but perhaps one day we will. I don't think the Left Alliance is going to fight back. Why was this small money that was now available to families with children in government negotiations used as it was? Because child poverty is statistically the largest among single - parent families and many - child families, when there was little money, it was pushed where it might be most useful. But it is clear that child poverty will not be eliminated simply by money for families with children if poverty continues to live in other structures.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u184	Mr President! We've come up with some good suggestions. I also take a stand on that child allowance. One aspect that has not yet come up is that if child-reduction is carried out in child-rich municipalities with a large number of children, income will continue to decrease and there will be much of that need for and provision of services. That is why I too am more in favour of this fairer increase in child supplements and indexation. And I agree that we must create the hope that young people will dare to commit and start families and have children, and it is important that we talk positively about children and families.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u185	I would like to give the floor to the representatives of Finland, Berg, Rantanen and Kiljunen. Then let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u186	Mr President! Perhaps it is worth noting at this point that there is some talk of different things being said when it comes to solving family poverty and, on the other hand, about the birth rate, that is, the opportunities of all young people and the enthusiasm for having children. And thirdly, it should be pointed out that we should not really talk about having children, because there are many more complex reasons than suddenly starting to have only children and then automatically blessing them. Therefore, attention should be paid above all to support services for children without children and other services aimed at ensuring that the people who want to have children are really able to do so. After all, in recent years this has gone ahead excellently, with the improvement of the rights of self-employed women, female couples and many other groups to fertility treatments. Such action should continue to be pursued so that everyone who wants to have a family is given the best possible support. And then that family poverty is a separate challenge, of course.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u187	Mr. Speaker! I would like to make it clear, Mr Juvonen, that it is not unclear. I raised these two options in my speech: if I have understood correctly, if this sum is distributed, it will be an increase of about 94 cents per child, and if we do not share, we will need more money if we want it to be EUR 10 also from the first child. If, at the end of the evening, you could now get an answer to whether your proposal is now about to be distributed, which in practice means that every family with children will receive an increase of 94 cents per child.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u188	Reply, Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u189	Mr President! No, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You put forward EUR 6 million for an increase from the third and fourth children, and the position of us Finns, which the Coalition Party also agrees with, was that the increase would be made from the first child onwards. But, of course, EUR 6 million is a small amount of money to be distributed on this scale, and that is the signal we want to give. In other words, we would go ahead and raise it with the first child, and we also made the statement that we hope to draw attention to the way in which child supplements can be significantly raised even from the first child. In our alternative budget, we will also propose ways, as has been pointed out in several speeches. In other words, the return of child allowance, which is EUR 70 million in total, is one of our agendas. In other words, fiscal means and support
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u190	Mr President! Let us be clear here: I do not think that money alone will solve this issue when we talk about the support and birth rate of families with children, but, instead, the attitude, support and reasonable flexibility and permanence of working life are certainly one of the things that may have an impact on this. But really, it is worth looking at other countries. When you look at both the population pyramid, but also the poverty of families with children, there are good ideas — as I said, that Poland, among other things, in this reduction in family poverty. However, I regret that when we talk about this issue of population pyramids and Finnish families with children, immigration is brought to this too. This is also something that immigration now wants to remedy. What's wrong with Finns?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u191	Mr President! You cut off this stage of debatability, and when I am the first on that list, I am happy to respond a little more fully to this question that has just been asked, which Mr Rantanen has done here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u192	Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u193	Mr President! Let us now look at these statistics from the very last few years. After all, we have seen the surprisingly rapid change in Finland that the real natural population growth in Finland has stopped. Last year we had about 50,000 children and the mortality rate was 52,000, which means that mortality is higher in Finland than the birth rate. The representative, Mr Rantanen, was concerned about this and brought the figure 1.4, which is fertility for one woman on average at the moment, and started from it to be preferably raised to three. I very strongly doubt that it will not be possible to achieve this by the decisions of this Chamber. I have already said in a few speeches: this is an inevitable phenomenon that population growth is seeking its optimal level, and it is not going to rise. At some point the global system is in a situation where population growth simply stops. This is the natural process with which we are dealing in these welfare societies. However, when we have a need for children and this happens, the global dimension is increasingly losing its significance. People live on this earth at different angles, and these former, traditional boundaries of nation states are no longer the obstacles that prevent it from being normalized. That is why immigration in Finland is the phenomenon that currently sustains net population growth in Finland. This immigration has been 13,000 in the past year, which raises and maintains this population level in Finland. This is also a natural, magnificent phenomenon in relation to the many problems we are talking about, such as this reduction in the number of children, and this means that immigration is also a very positive feature in addition to the fact that it has many other positive features.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u195	Under this heading, a change to Section 10 of Chapter 11 of the Health Insurance Act will be discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u196	Mr President! I would like to question the concern expressed several times in this debate that the birth rate of Finns is falling and that families would not have enough children. There is no objective meter for people living in Finland. If Finns do not want to have more children and if fewer and fewer people want to have families, then the population here will either decrease or grow as a result of immigration, either. As far as I am concerned, it is not a problem in itself, but then we only have more counties per person when there are fewer people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u199	The last two speeches have already been on the non-child allowance, but in the interests of equity Mr Mäkelä will make his own contribution. I would appeal that we should then stick to the subject of the title.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u200	Mr President! The debate, however, relates to child benefit in the sense that it is, however, a way in which this Finnish birth rate can be raised, in everyone's view, in some way, and everyone also recognises the problem of the fact that the birth rate is too low. To Mr Kontula, I would say that this is a very special picture of Finland, which is perhaps known for one of the best maternity clinic systems in the world, early childhood education and education systems, which is the most equitable in the world for all children, so I do not understand this picture of misery that has been created. On the other hand, a rather objective indicator of the birth rate needed here is that there should be future workers to pay future pensions and care for the elderly. The durability and carrying capacity of our social system requires it. In order to ensure the continuity of Finnish society and culture, we must make these political decisions that make it possible to establish a family more attractive to people.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u201	The 11th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u202	Mr President! The proposed increase in the National Pensions Act will target some 609,000 pensioners whose total pension is less than EUR 1200 to EUR 1300 per month. The increase in the level of the national pension also increases the amount of the additional front pension as it is calculated on the basis of the amount of the national pension and the amount of the full basic allowance under the Military Assistance Act, which is linked to the full amount of the national pension. In addition, the increase in the guarantee pension will increase the minimum wage limit for submitting an invalidity pension to rest, which will allow a slightly higher contribution to the disability pension and improve the position of older long-term unemployed people with a difficult labour market position, as the amount of pension support under the Pension Aid Act is linked to the amount of the guarantee pension.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u203	Mr President! The proposal now before us for an increase in small pensions is justified. The Group of the Party of European Socialists is in favour of raising the minimum pensions by improving the financial position of those receiving a small pension. It should be noted, however, that the purchasing power of pensioners and the amount of money available are influenced not only by the actual pension, but also by a number of other factors such as social and health care charges, the content of the ceiling, medicines and the price of food and energy. Customer fees for the collection of pensioners have also increased. Many people fail to obtain the services and medicines necessary for financial difficulties. It is important to ensure that every elderly person is provided with adequate income. In the context of the reform of the Customer Fees Act, the situation of pensioners must be taken into account in order to ensure adequate income and reduce pensioner poverty. The Coalition Party has objected to the committee's report in relation to the above arguments. The motion for a statement of objection is that Parliament requires the government to provide adequate employment measures to finance pension increases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u204	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! This is a government proposal to increase the so-called small pensions. There's a so-called "Vahpusatanen" on the table. Mr President! In the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the Finns have objected to this. The government's efforts to reduce pensioner poverty are in itself worthwhile, but the measures now being proposed are inadequate. The income of some pensioners does not increase at all when the amount corresponding to the increase in the pension is deducted in full or in part from the housing allowance or income support. True Finns attach importance to the fight against pensioner poverty and remind the Rinte Government of the promise to increase the minimum working pensions by EUR 100 per cent, so to speak, per cent. This was to apply to pensioners earning less than EUR 1400. Measures to redeem the promise would have been needed without delay. This government proposal is a good first step towards this, but it is not in line with this government programme for an increase in pensions of EUR 1400. Pensions are raised by pensioners who earn between EUR 1200 and EUR 1,300, but little. Mr President! We have tabled three statements in this protest, which I shall present to you here. The first statement reads: ‘The government requires that a separate action programme be drawn up to prevent theretirement of pensioners. “ The Finns of Peru are very concerned that more and more small pensioners are going to be subject to enforcement. We want to fight against the poor status of a small pensioner in this situation. Declaration 2: ‘The Commission requires the Government to clarify the problems related to the customer fees caps and the changes In the opinion of the Finns Party, there are problems that should be resolved in the case of customer fee caps. We have three different customer fees ceilings: health services, medicines and Kela trips. In expert hearings, we heard about the problems of who, among other things, will monitor the fulfilment of the customer fee ceiling for the elderly. So in this sense, I believe that we have a common goal with the Board of Directors to resolve the problems related to the customer fee caps. The third statement reads: ‘The Commission requires that government groups take measures to strengthen the purchasing power of small pension recipients and to prevent True Finns are very concerned that the equal tax is the same for all. Housing, mobility, heating, food, medicines, illness increase costs for pensioners. One hospital trip and the cost of it, the hospital fees, can completely bring down the small pensioner’s household. One additional illness per month causes a pensioner to wonder whether to buy the drugs or to buy food. In other words, three statements in our protest, and it was unfortunate that, despite the fact that these protests are upbuilding to our society and have good intentions, they did not receive government support. Hence, this report was not unanimous either, but the True Finns objected. But then we're going to go to this May Day Hundred. This is very unfortunate when, in the run-up to the elections, the government promised an increase of EUR 100 to people making small pensions, it is included in the government programme, EUR 1400. Now it is very important that you honour that promise and take further action and bring your proposals and show the Finnish voters, the parliamentarians, that you will be able to keep your EUR 100 promise. This increase in this proposal is not what you promised, but it is a good start, that is to say the need for pensioners and the situation and status of small pensioners in Finland. In the opinion of the Finns Party, those who earn small working pensions in particular must also be looked straight in the eye and promised that there will be increases. And now I am talking about women on low incomes, for example: there are nurses, there are people in the trade, there are cleaning workers, there are personnel in the day care centre. So look at their pensions, and the voice is heard, and this was the position of the Finns of Peru.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u205	Mr President! The debate on pensioners is very important. True Finns are concerned about the income problems of pensioners. Of course, an increase in pensions is in order. Taxation, health care fees, medicines, food, fuel price increases — the government even cuts the household allowance. It certainly feels like it in senior citizens. These decisions make the livelihood and status of pensioners more difficult and difficult. Pension-related initiatives have also been seen here in Parliament and are very important. The True Finns have supported the mid-term index in pensions, which means that the value of pensions does not fall, but that purchasing power is better preserved in pensions – even if prices rise and other items go higher, retirement would still receive a little more than now. It would be good if pensions were to rise in the same proportion and the purchasing power would remain. Now the pensioner's euro is not 100 cents. It is truly embarrassing that the Prime Minister's promise of an increase of 100 euros in pensions did not come, or did the Prime Minister mean a hundred cents of the May Day crop when he promised it, not 100 euros? Hamusatas do not warm up Finnish pensioners. In fact, Mr Juvonen brought up the concerns and anti-pronunciations of the Finns, which have been considered, and the issues that have been considered are issues related to enforcement, purchasing power and customer fee caps. In other words, I support the statements made by Mrs Juvose.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u206	Mr President! With this proposal, small tax-funded pensions will rise, not by the amount of the centenary that Prime Minister Rinne previously promised, but by less. The full amount of the national pension will increase by EUR 34 per month and the full amount of the guarantee pension by approximately EUR 50 per month. These increases total around 690000 pensioners with a total pension of less than EUR 1200 to EUR 1300 per month. These proposals are in themselves good and worthy of support, because so far many of the beneficiaries of the increase have had to rely on income support, which is always the last support if there is no other way to get money to cover their compulsory expenditure. Mr President! However, we in the committee are concerned about the long-term financing of this increase in pensions. As a result of this proposal, budgetary expenditure is estimated to increase by around EUR 180 million as early as next year, while the increase in tax revenues resulting from the increase in pensions is also taken into account. And the amount will increase as the number of retired people increases. It is vital that the government should make the employment rate rise from just under 73% to at least 75% today. Otherwise, we will be more and more on the road to debt and tax increases. For this reason, Mr President, I support the protest made by Mr Laiho and the statement which reads: ‘The government requires that adequate employment measures be taken by the government to finance pension increases. “
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u207	Mr President! We have an important bill on the increase in small pensions. As we have already heard, the idea is to increase the guarantee pension by EUR 50 and the national pension by EUR 34. This is the first step on the road to improving pension security, which has been included in the Government Programme as part of the extensive package in the Government Programme to improve the living conditions and life situation of elderly people in Finland. For the first time in 25 years, we have a government programme of this kind, which contains a number of key points, starting with care measures and ending with support for home care, increasing the number of doctors, and also the old-age Ombudsman and pension security. The big package, which is gradually coming to us here in Parliament, is on display. This is the first step from the increase in pensions to the smallest, which has also been referred to as the May Day crop, and it has been said that it is not enough at this stage. It is not enough — this is the first step. However, one comment on the full national pension and the full guarantee pension today — which is not an old-age pension, but a basic guarantee, which is in the pension system — must be made right away, because it naturally creates an additional dimension in this matter: we have 80% of those who receive full national pension, i.e. all those who receive guaranteed pension are under 65 years of age. The average full national pension recipient in Finland is currently a 50-year-old male. We have more people under the age of 40 with full national pensions than those over the age of 65. That, of course, will immediately open up the debate on what we are doing with our old-age pension, that is to say work-related pension, because we have the employment pension system which 98% of people over the age of 65 enjoy and use, and that is our statutory old-age pension. Mr Juvonen has pointed out that this is not enough, and this increase in national pension and guarantee pension is not enough to achieve what you called the May Day Hundred, but you should also read the Government Programme carefully. After all, there is an observation that a tripartite study will be launched on how to improve the position of people with the lowest earnings-related pensions within the earnings-related pension scheme. It is the idea that we could increase the pension for all people at pension level of EUR 1400 as you refer to it for EUR 100. And now we come to the most important question that has also been raised here: Prime Minister Rinne, here at last Thursday's Question Time, pointed out that women's small earnings-related pensions should also be increased, which would compensate for the non-retirement of pensions by means of family leave — this started only in the case of pension accumulations from 2005 onwards. Both these ideas, the idea put forward here by Prime Minister Rinte and, of course, this tripartite negotiation to raise the smallest occupational pensions, are valuable openings and valuable tasks, and that is what we must, of course, invest in. It is a pity to hear the debate that took place here last Thursday, when Sari Sarkomaa, especially at the top of the Convention, and perhaps even more broadly, suddenly went on to say, firstly, that there is no extra money in the pension system — it is said to be not there at all — and, secondly, that there is going to be a cut in earnings-related pensions to subsidise national pensions. This was completely erroneous, misleading, misleading information about which this debate took place. First of all, every pensioner who receives a pension between EUR 1000 and EUR 1400 — every one of them — is an occupational pensioner. It is not a question of money being transferred to national pensions; it is a question of occupational pensions. Undeniably, this includes the solidarity component of the pension system in addition to earnings-related dependency, and that is new. But even more striking was the talk that the Coalition Party has also received support from, for example, the Confederation of Finnish Industries. Vesa Rantahalvari, an expert there, has said that there is no extra cent in pension funds in the earnings-related pension scheme, not an extra cent — in funds that have grown by EUR 8 billion per year on average since 95, in the last 25 years. During this year they have grown from the first day of January, when there was EUR 193 billion in funds, now to EUR 211 billion, which we heard from the Prime Minister, and you say that there is no money, there is no extra cents in the pension system. This opens up a special situation in the Finnish debate when we cannot seriously talk about these matters. An average of EUR 200 to 300 million is paid in customer credits from pension companies, which has been criticised by the Financial Supervisory Authority for misusing pension funds — between EUR 200 and EUR 300 million. The price tag given by Antti Rinne to the increase that would go into the smallest women’s pensions was about 200 million. They say the pension system doesn't have a cent in it. We must also remember that EUR 1.4 billion is spent annually on the pension system for investment companies. Finance foreign investment companies when they transfer our pension funds, although this could in principle be done by investing directly in an index fund without these investment analysts. 1.4 billion, and there is no money at all, says the representative of the Coalition Party here to us. We also know about the lavish fees paid by pension companies and there is still talk that we do not have an extra cent. Administrative costs in the Finnish pension system are EUR 49 per insured person higher than the average in our comparison countries. We have a very wasteful, administratively ineffective system which, of course, is the main reason why we have almost twenty pension companies. There is a unique system in the world where private pension companies carry out the statutory task, and there is still a large number. A single pension company would be the right way, as is the case everywhere else in the world, and the savings would be EUR 500 million. And we still hear that there is not a cent of money in the pension system to come up against the term Mr Juvone used, the cent of May Day. These are matters of political will, and with political will, of course, they must be able to change. Yes, pensions have also been cut by political will: the folded index was cut by 2014 decision, a 0.4% increase was made where it was halved in that situation. At the time, there was the political will to make that decision. Now is the time to make use of political will.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u208	Mr President! The proposed withdrawal of national pension and guarantee pension at the beginning of next year is a well-founded measure, but unfortunately, it is still far from enough to implement the promise made in spring 2018 by Prime Minister Rinte, the current Prime Minister, of a net increase of EUR 100 to all monthly pensions below EUR 1400. Unfortunately, there are a great many people who receive this kind of pension with this proposal either do not rise at all or do not rise very much. Mr President! At least at the moment, the number of disappointed pensioners is quite large. Intermediaries include persons who have worked for a long career in low-paid jobs, whose pension is slightly over EUR 1000. The status of people receiving a small pension should therefore be improved. In this respect, concrete proposals are expected from the government quickly. Mr President! Many pensioners spend very much of their income on essential living costs, such as housing, food and medicines, and pensions are not always enough even for them. Serious income problems can be caused, for example, by unexpected illness or even by the breakdown of a household appliance. Additional expenditure is due, among other things, to the constant increase in electricity transmission prices and the increase in mobility costs. In fact, these issues should be given special attention, as the Finns of Peru suggest. Mr President! Measures to facilitate the life of pensioners included in the basic Finnish option would include reducing the ownership of medicines, introducing informal care support as tax-free income, lowering the taxation of pensions to the same level as wages and salaries, and raising small and medium-sized occupational pensions in line with the pension model we are presenting. Mr President! Improving the purchasing power of pensioners, both from a human point of view, would be important and would significantly increase the demand for products and services from domestic companies and hence employment. The government must therefore take the difficult economic situation of pensioners very seriously and quickly look for measures to improve it in addition to this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u209	Mr President! The increase in small tax-funded pensions proposed in the government proposal is to be welcomed and targeted at more than 600,000 citizens. It is important that the livelihoods of the smallest people on pension income are improved, as has already been rightly pointed out in several speeches. I would also like to emphasise the role of young people here and remind them of its importance. The proposal to increase the rehabilitation allowance for young people and the rehabilitation allowance in vocational rehabilitation to match the guarantee pension is to be welcomed and, above all, necessary. This will help young people who are able to work part-time and non-working part-time adults to seek vocational rehabilitation and thus improve their employment. Mr President, this is an important measure which seeks to involve those who are facing a real threat of exclusion in the labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u210	Mr President! We made a report in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to the government's legislative proposal, in which we say that the committee very much welcomes these increases in the smallest pensions. It is particularly important for the centre that we should be able to target the most low-income pensioners. This was already apparent during the last period when the guarantee pension was increased three times by approximately EUR 47. I would perhaps like to correct or clarify the claim made here that the government had promised, in the run-up to the elections, some increases in pensions. It is not possible when the government was formed only after the elections, and just as Mr Kiljunen said, the government has in its programme stated its will and its line on pensions. Among other things, it states, as Mr Kiljunen said, that a tripartite study will be launched on how to improve the situation of people with the lowest earnings-related pensions within the earnings-related pension scheme and, as part of this study, ways of raising occupational pensions below EUR 1400 by a net amount of EUR 100 without increasing their earnings-related contributions. It is important that we thoroughly explore the possibilities for this and other measures to improve the livelihood of pensioners. The national pension has been last increased by a flat-rate increase of EUR 20 by a law that entered into force from the beginning of 2008. For a long time now, we can improve both the national pension and the guarantee pension by means of an increase which will be positive in the everyday lives of many people with low incomes. The proposed increase in national pension of around EUR 34 and EUR 50 in guarantee pension is targeted at some 609,000 pensioners whose total pension is less than EUR 1200 to EUR 1300 per month. Prime Minister Rinne raised a very important issue last week, the possibility of raising the pensions of women on parental leave. This is a very important and good objective. How it is technically implemented is good for us now, even after the Prime Minister's opening, to discuss it thoroughly. Mr President! It is very valuable that we agree in this Chamber that these increases in pensions at hand are not enough, but a lot of other measures are needed to improve the livelihood and everyday life of pensioners. I attach great importance to the committee's report's attention to the fact that reducing pensioner poverty requires comprehensive and informed measures. The committee draws attention to the fact that the existing information on pensioner poverty is partly fragmented. In this debate, it is quite right to point out that the mere level of pension is not the only determining factor in the daily lives of pensioners, but that many expenses and expenses affect how much money remains available. For example, the legislation on customer fees should be reformed in such a way as not to increase charges for low-income people using services but, on the contrary, to reduce them. During the Government Programme negotiations, we agreed to reform the Customer Fees Act so that we can remove the barriers to treatment and increase equality in health, including by extending the freedom to pay. Our joint task is to ensure that Finland is well placed to be retired.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u211	Mr President! As I said before, it is important to raise the guarantee pension and national pension, but there is a problem that, especially at the end of the working life, it may be unmotivating to remain on a low wage if you feel that the guarantee pension is more or less the same as a small earnings-related pension, and we have a problem, especially in the case of women's small earnings-related pensions. I would like to say that I disagree with Mr Kiljunen, who said here that it would be possible to increase women's small occupational pensions in this system, because there is a lot of money there. The position expressed by the various employment pension companies in the public domain has been very clear and it has been stated that there is no extra money, and if there is to be an increase in these smallest women's pensions within the earnings-related pension scheme, then that would mean that the pensions of other people on earnings-related pensions should be reduced, unless occupational pension contributions are increased. This position has been very clear, and I wonder how this could have been interpreted in such a different way. Of course, pensions must also be increased for those who are now missing an increase in their ability to get along better with their own retirement and long-term work at work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u212	Mr President! Immediately to Mr Kauma, it has to be said that the role of occupational pension companies has in practice been to defend the financial sustainability of the pension system, as they use the term, quite rightly. In terms of financial sustainability, Finland’s pension system is top-notch in the world — top-notch in the world. Its international comparisons are direct. Transparency of administration is also very important and registered. Instead, the problem there is that it is considered ineffective because it is an expensive system. Occupational pension companies are constantly talking about the lack of money for pensions, and here too we are talking about EUR 200 to 300 million, which in itself is a large sum, but in relation to the volume, the largest capital concentration in Finland and its growth, we are not talking about things of common dimensions. I have just told you that pension funds have increased by EUR 21000 every minute in the last 25 years, even now. We are talking about huge growth. On average, it has been EUR 8 billion a year, i.e. EUR 8000 million a year is an increase. If you say that between 200 million and 300 million, as it were, will lead to pressures on occupational pension contributions or that the system will not stand up to it, then we will not be talking about collective issues. The only thing is that the perspective here is different, and from the point of view that pension companies represent, the pension money is regarded as completely untouched — even though it is reserved for pensions. That money is reserved for pensions and not for anything else, for example, customer credits, which means that we are in a very contradictory situation here. Mr Savio, you obviously spoke about the views of the Finns, and Mr Juvonen also pointed out that you have programmed a number of objectives to improve the situation of pensioners other than this pension provision. You referred to the reimbursement of medical expenses and you also referred to the taxation of pensioners. I would now like to read to you what your programme has been exactly four years ago, at the time of the Government Programme. At that time, the reimbursement of medical expenses was reduced by EUR 150 million, it was your programme, the deduction of pension income was reduced, it was EUR 419 million, and there was no wish to make a tax deduction on earned income when it was made on wage income. This was your program when you were going to the government four years ago. It's great if you've changed your mind now. It needs to be underlined, and it is a great thing that you have done it now, but of course I also have to look at these statistics from that side of the picture as you have done when you have shouldered the responsibility of government. We now have a government which, for the first time, is taking seriously — indeed seriously — the improvement of the living conditions of older people, the improvement of the living conditions of pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u213	Mr President! Indeed, it would be good to know how you are doing this increase in the pension for women on low incomes, women on small pensions, because there is also one promise in that sentence. So how will it be done and what income will be balanced and from which pension funds are these increases being made? Mr Aittakumpu, I have to tell you that you are in the same government as the SDP and their election programme does mention this centurion, not the Mayan name, but that a pensioner, who earns EUR 1400, will receive EUR 100. So, yes, you have exactly the same direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u216	This debate will get the character of the debate again, and the answer button and the opportunity to do so will be opened immediately. — Representative Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u217	Mr President! The increase in small pensions is in itself to be welcomed and we have also given our support to this legislative proposal before us, with an objection to the uncertainty surrounding its funding. But it must be borne in mind that even at that height those increases are half of what Prime Minister Rinne has promised, that is to say that the centenary has melted to half. I am truly sorry that many pensioners have been disappointed by the Prime Minister's failed promise. I must be amazed at what Mr Kiljunen has said in this Chamber that there is extra money for pensions, for raising the pensions of women in their homes just like that, because there is no such money, as we have heard. Or are you going to eat bread out of the mouth of our children? How people of today’s working age, how our children, how young we are — are we really going to get everything cleaned up,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u218	Mr Laiho, when the Prime Minister: Rinne has talked about this EUR 100 increase in pensions below EUR 1400, she has spoken about the period of the parliamentary term, four years, right?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u219	Mr President! To Mr Kiljunen, you said in this regard about occupational pension companies that our system is a waste of money, among other things because there are so many of these companies. It is, of course, an appropriate number of employment pension companies that I agree with you on this point. On the other hand, however, it must be borne in mind that occupational pension companies also provide various services to organisations and workplaces, including in relation to the development of well-being at work. It must be remembered that we, for example, still have far too many people on disability pensions, and occupational pension companies have played a major role in developing this system. But since these calculation systems, the way in which these small pensions can be increased, seem to be so divided between the various parties, in that sense the coalition has seen it important to propose the setting up of such a parliamentary working party, in order to reach common figures, at least on:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u220	I will give the floor to Mr Aittakumpu, Mr Heinäluoma, Mr Juvonen, Mr Rantanen, Mr Laiho and Mr Kiljunen, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u221	Mr President! I repeat that the government has indeed made no promises before the elections, but the centre is fully involved in this government programme, which we have agreed together after the elections and which is also the result of many compromises. It is very important for the centre that we want to work together to improve the position of the lowest-income pensioners. And just as I said here, in the Government Programme, we have this objective, net, to increase occupational pensions below EUR 1400 by EUR 100 without increasing occupational pension contributions. That is what we are committed to, and this is a very important and good objective.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u222	Mr President! Now I would ask the opposition party to reconsider whether you are in favour of this government's chosen objective of raising small pensions. If you are in favour, then I think it will be easy to get in touch with this law as well. But now there is a somewhat vague message from you, on the one hand — and you yourself said, Mr Laiho, here — that the government is making too small an increase in these small pensions at the moment, and on the other hand it is said that the means are wrong and are taken from the wrong place. I think this is confusing not only this hall, but also the Finns on a large scale. Are you committed to that common goal with the government,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u224	Mr President! I could not help commenting yet on these progress made by the Finns of Peru with regard to the affairs of pensioners during the last period, when we were in that government for two years before we were really kicked out. At that time, 5,000 60-year-old Finns who had been unemployed for over five years retired. There was also a withdrawal of the guarantee pension, then there were at least two statutory leave days for all family carers in the month, i.e. a lot of good and important performances. But the world is certainly not ready, and we all know that pensioners, small pensioners, are in a difficult position in Finland. Now you've promised me that raise for women, too. It's very important. A low-income woman is something that needs to be noticed in Finland and really targeted. Then where does the funding come from? Among other things, Tela and STTK have said that this model of yours is impossible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u225	Mr President! It is rather amusing when Mr Kiljunen quotes a four-year-old government programme here. I urge you to read that basic Finnish social policy programme. There's a lot of good stuff and stuff to learn. I find it interesting that, of course, we all agree that pensioner poverty is a serious matter and the increases there are good, but on the other hand, you are now giving pensioners money and taking it out of their other pocket with these fuel tax increases and an increase in heating. In that sense, it's a little strange to be pious about it here. [Ari Koponen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u226	Mr President! As I have said in my previous speeches, the Assembly supports this motion before us. We have objected because of financial uncertainty, but we are not opposed to the increases that have now been made to these small pensions. As regards these other increases in the small pensions of women raised by Prime Minister Rinte, for which occupational pension funds, funds, are to be used, we cannot accept this and have been protested, among other things, by SAK, STTK and Akava. Every Finnish citizen must be able to rely on the fact that when he has paid money for his pension, the person who earns his pension will also receive a pension in the future. And that's why there's that money, too, is that every nurse, every cop, every teacher can count on that when you've been working for years,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u227	Mr President! Mr Laiho, unfortunately we have a pension system, above all this folded index, which has made it possible since 95 to reduce the earned income level of the pensioner legally, the only group of income recipients in Finland, whose income level is falling. This is the factual situation when you were defending quite correctly that earned income would be maintained. Occupational pension companies do valuable, important work in Finland, no one can deny it. They play a very important role in collecting occupational pension contributions and also in paying occupational pensions, which is our old-age pension provision. There is also this aspect of well-being at work, which has been criticised by the Financial Supervisory Authority for wasting resources in many situations. I'm not going into details. But what is completely exceptional in Finland compared to the whole world — the whole world — is that private pension companies in no country in the world do not manage the statutory pension system, and we still have many of them. All over the world, when it comes to statutory pension provision, it is managed by one pension fund.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u228	To the list of speakers, Mr Kauma — absent. Mr Kiljunen, I see that you now have the opportunity to receive twice the last word in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u229	Mr President! This debate has now moved in the direction of this occupational pension scheme, and it is important that it was raised here as well, so that we can see that, when we are talking about this centurion, which has now taken off the road, that it has been increased through the national pension, the guarantee pension, that is, the state budget — as it is doing, that is why it is at this stage in our debate — we have to open up this other aspect, which has been included in the government programme. That is actually bigger than this so-called'retirement pension', that is to say, the fact that the trio are seriously starting to negotiate that it is possible to obtain this support for the smallest occupational pensions. Mr President! To conclude, I would like to make the final appeal that, when we start this trialogue, we should actually have a four-story, the representation of pension organisations in it, because we are talking about pensions. We had this comitology report for the first time in 2013 when we were talking about a folded index, and the three groups involved pension organisations, that is to say, a four-stock was formed at that time. It is now the same as when these negotiations start on this issue, which would require the involvement of pensioner organisations.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u230	I'm sorry. I was just ahead of schedule.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u231	Mr President! Yes, we Finns have read the government program. We have read it very well. There is an indication that the EUR 1400 pension will be increased by EUR 100, and from your tripartite working group. But in our protest — I hope you have read the protest of the Finns of Peru well — it is mentioned that measures are needed without delay to redeem the promise. In other words, we urge and encourage you, without delay, to initiate these measures in order to achieve this centenary. Well, then I'll take another mention. You are also included in the Government Programme in connection with the taxi reform that these problems in the taxi reform should be corrected. When it is there in your government program, we would like to have a hand with heart, sincerely, to be able to take forward that government record with briskness and really fix and look for the problems associated with taxi traffic and, in particular, getting a taxi and everything that has been in Kela taxis, big, big problems. ( PresidentMattiVanhanen : now for a fixed period of time from the ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u234	Mr President! Representative Rantanen well pointed out how the government really gives the elderly with one hand, but then takes them with the other hand. I would add to his list that household allowance, which will add over 200 euros a year to hundreds and hundreds of elderly people who use cleaning. So this is precisely for these people, who need it most.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u235	Mr President! I cannot speak on behalf of the government here, but when I am defending the government in these matters — and in other matters too — I can tell you that when I know that the government takes this question of pensioners very seriously. There is a clear desire to invest in this, there is a commitment that we will want to raise our pensions. That is why this motion is right here on the table to decide. I am also aware of the fact that, as I said, the government is trying as smoothly as possible to enter into the tripartite negotiations where it would then be possible to see how we, within the earnings-related pension system, could also transfer resources to these smallest pensions, and I hope that, as I said, it would be a four-sided one, that there would also be the representation of pensioners' organisations. I know that the government is taking this issue seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u236	Mr President! I hope that you will take it so seriously that, among other things, oil-fired houses will not be subject to tax increases and demands to change them, because this is precisely something that affects pensioners in quite a large part. Then there is the second point, namely that I would be a little complacent about the pension system, because now at least I have a serious fear that the nurses and police officers who were mentioned here earlier will start unloading money to people who have not worked a day in Finland, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u237	Mr President! That is the last thing I have to say. Why do you say that we should be patient about spending on pensions the funds that have been raised in Finland specifically for pensions?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u238	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities on TyVM 2/2019 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u239	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the law on the working and living environment of the crew and on food management, so that vessels under 24 metres are covered by the law in the case of provisions concerning the accommodation, food and catering of the ship. This amendment partially implements the Council Directive on work in the fisheries sector. It is also proposed to convert the reference provision to the Administrative Law into a reference to the Law on judicial proceedings in administrative matters. According to Article 14 of the Law on the working and living environment of crews and on-board catering, the master of the ship will ensure that the crew is able to eat free of charge during the working period. The committee notes that, after the amendment, the rule on the free movement of food also applies to all fishing vessels less than 24 metres in length. According to a report from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, more detailed provisions on the housing, food and food supply of fishing vessels are laid down in a regulation. Under the transitional provision of the new Regulation, the provisions only apply to new vessels. The Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities considers that the proposal is appropriate and necessary and supports the adoption of the draft law without amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u240	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 5/2019 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u241	Mr President! Report 5/2019 by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health from the Parliament includes the Committee's comments on the Government's proposal for 38/2019 from the Parliament. The Government's proposal proposes to amend the Health Care Act and the Act on the State's share of basic municipal services. The laws are meant to come into force from the beginning of next year. The aim of the proposal is to secure the availability of on-call services not only in Finland but also in Swedish in the Hospital District of Vaasa. The amendment improves the linguistic rights of the population of the Hospital District of Vaasa in the provision of on-call services in order to improve the availability of on-call services and shorten travel to emergency care. The committee notes that the emergency services provided by the Vaasa Central Hospital are now almost equivalent to the size required for hospitals in a wide range of emergency services and are still being strengthened in practice in two specific areas. The proposal proposes that the obligation of the Hospital District of South Ostrobothnia to provide on-call services in Swedish be removed as unnecessary. The services of Swedish-speaking patients will continue to be carried out in the same way as in other Finnish-speaking hospital districts. In view of the changes in the on-call operations, the additional resources needed will be taken into account in the draft budget for next year in the form of an increase of EUR 1 million, which will be distributed to the municipalities in accordance with the Act on central government transfers of basic municipal services. For the reasons set out in the explanatory memorandum, the committee considers it appropriate for the implementation of linguistic rights that the Hospital District of Vaasa should also be obliged to provide extensive 24-hour on-call services in addition to the current 12 other 24-hour on-call medical districts. The Committee notes that the national functioning of on-call services should also be considered as part of the whole service system, ensuring equal access to services and the exercise of linguistic rights in national languages. It is proposed to impose an obligation on the medical districts of the university to give medical advice requested by the courts in such a way that the hospital district of North Savo administers the opinion. The purpose and aim of the proposal is to ensure that the courts receive the medical expert opinions they need. The reform relates to the development of the insurance doctor system, which aims to increase the transparency of the insurance doctor system and public confidence in the system. In connection with the examination of the citizens' initiative on the system of insurance doctors, last year Parliament adopted a statement calling for the preparation of amendments to the legislation to remedy the shortcomings of the insurance doctor system. The committee considers it important for the equality of applicants to be addressed by an independent body in a centralised manner to the courts in medical matters. An independent expert will increase legal certainty and the transparency and reliability of medical evaluation. The Hospital District of Pohjois-Savo will set up a working group of experts to be appointed by all hospital districts operating a university hospital. The Hospital District of Pohjois-Savo may also appoint other medical experts to the group and, where appropriate, request an opinion from an expert outside the expert group. A sufficient number of opinions have been evaluated in the draft, ranging from 80 to 200 per year. The committee notes that the assessment of the number of opinions and the evolution of costs is uncertain, as improved access to opinions may increase the number of referrals. The development of the number and cost of expert opinions should therefore be monitored. The State will pay compensation for the costs of the operation to the Hospital District of Pohjois-Savo, which will provide the expert with a specific remuneration. The committee considers it justified that the compensation for the opinion should be differentiated according to the workload involved in drawing up the opinion and that separate funding should be provided for this new task. The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u242	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the Health Care Act and the Act on the State's share of basic municipal services by adding an obligation to the Hospital District of Vaasa to organise a large 24-hour emergency unit in connection with its central hospital. The obligation of the Hospital District of South Ostrobothnia to provide on-call services in Finnish and Swedish would be removed as unnecessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u243	Mr President! This bill also represents the first step in the correction of the insurance doctor system. “The obligation to provide medical advice requested by the Courts for the The aim of the proposal is to ensure that the courts receive the medical expert opinions they need. The reform is linked to the development of an insurance doctor’s system aimed at increasing the transparency of the insurance doctor’s system and the public’s confidence in the system.” Mr President! This is from the last season. We had a citizens' initiative before us here in Parliament which called for the arbitrary right of doctors from insurance and pension institutions to be removed from the doctor's statements. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health then directed to the future government — we made a statement on it, which was worded as follows: ‘The Council of State calls for a proposal to be prepared by the Council of State in order to correct the inadequacies of the medical system and to submit proposals for amendments to the legislation during the spring of the year2020 to the Parliament. In this context, it is necessary to clarify how the formal requirements for the advice of insurance doctors are to be recorded in the legislation.’ Now this head has been opened, and this is the first step, although it must not be the last. There is still a lot of work to be done in the Finnish insurance doctor system to ensure that people who fall within its scope receive justice and receive decisions on time and then receive pension and so on. Mr President! Then there is this other matter related to this bill, that is, the return of the emergency services at Vaasa Hospital. In this regard, too, we had a citizens' initiative last season, which the Finns supported in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. There was also a vote here in Parliament's Chamber, and that was when the initiative fell only by 92 to 91 votes, that is to say by one vote. The opinion of the Finns on this was that the Hospital District of Vaasa has been profiled in the development of patient safety and that the area is also working vigorously in front of this patient safety theme and it is very important that the service is provided in the heart language, the mother tongue. That is why we considered it very important, the members of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, that this report takes into account the importance of both languages, both Finnish and Swedish, when the patient is treated and the person is confronted. So it is precisely there that the danger of harm to the patient is lurking if the nurse and the doctor do not understand each other. And in the sense that both have been included here in the report, it is clear in that respect. It is a good thing that this was finally put right. But we still have something to fix and improve on all around Finland's emergency services. Make sure that the on-call receptions work and people get there. After all, the government’s goal is to improve the treatment guarantee and thereby increase the number of doctors, so that people can get to both the emergency clinic and special medical care there in Vaasa as well as us all over Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u244	Mr President! Where is the help when medical expert advice is needed? They may be needed for a wide range of purposes: insurance, justice, traffic damage, district courts, courts and a wide range of other cases. In the past, this adoption and receipt of opinions was not very clear. Now I think it will be much better and better taken into account. There's been a lot of talk about the insurance doctor, and of course it's worth it. I think it is wonderful that this task is now concentrated on one hospital district. This will be handled in the future by the Hospital District of North Savo. Other circles may also be designated and other experts may be appointed. It is very important that we ensure that this statement is made because people can really need these.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u245	Mr President! The safeguarding of linguistic rights is an important issue. The aim of the Government's proposal is to ensure that on-call services are provided in the Hospital District of Vaasa in addition to the Finnish language and also in Swedish. The change improves the linguistic rights of the population of the Hospital District of Vaasa in emergency services. With regard to the Hospital District of South Ostrobothnia, it is proposed that the obligation to organise emergency services in Swedish be abolished. In this case, the services of Swedish-speaking patients will be carried out in the same way as in other hospital districts in Finnish-speaking monolingual. This proposal will make an appropriate contribution to the realisation of linguistic rights. In addition, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers it important that the national functioning of on-call services should also be considered as part of the whole service system in order to ensure equal access to services and the exercise of linguistic rights in national languages.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u246	Mr President, värderade talman! Thank you to the government and thank the Committee on Social Affairs and Health for the unanimous report.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u247	Mr President! The legislative proposal under consideration to amend the Health Care Act and the Act on the State Contribution of Local Government Basic Services, inter alia, will allow the courts to obtain better access to the medical advice they need. This proposal relates to some aspects of the development of the insurance doctor system, and among other things, the representative of the Finnish People's Party Jari Ronkainen has given credit to the shortcomings and shortcomings of the insurance doctor system in patients' legal protection for years. Mr President! As Mr Juvonen said earlier, last year, a citizens' initiative was also submitted to Parliament in order to remedy the problems encountered in the insurance doctor system, in which Parliament decided to require a legislative proposal from the government to address the problems by next spring at the latest, and this has also been referred to in the committee's report. I myself have received a number of contacts from the concerned citizens this month. They finally expect concrete measures from the legislator to solve the problems of the insurance doctor system, and many of them have had to wait for decades in a difficult situation. This bill is a small step forward, but, as Mrs Juvonen has already said very well, much more needs to be done, and Parliament is therefore waiting for proposals by next spring at the latest. Mr President! There does not seem to be any ministers present in this Chamber at the moment, but I would like to ask if the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Mr Vehviläinen, for example, could explain on behalf of the government the stage at which the preparatory work on reforming the insurance doctor system might be taking place at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u248	Representative Vehviläinen, reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u249	I'm sorry. I'm fine with the answer. — I do not know exactly how to say it, but once this statement from the citizens' initiative has been taken from there last year and we know that this is an important issue across the political boundaries as a whole, I will, on the basis of this report too, speed up this issue. If I remember correctly, this package of legislative proposals which we have been given — this HE list, the government's agenda — did not include it at this stage, but none of us can rush this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u250	And the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u251	Mr President! In fact, this is where Mr Savio took everything I was about to say. But it is certainly good to underline that, first of all, it is a good thing that this has moved forward. The Finns of Finland, led by Jari Ronkainen, have, as a continuum, taken this forward and wanted changes to this insurance doctor system. But really, as I said, this is only the first step, for it is an unreasonable idea that only at the court stage comes along with this kind of independent commentator, the commentator of this dispute. In the case of such a person who has fallen ill, it is quite a long way to go if you go to court there, and you would be happy to hope that these matters will be brought into order even before then.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u252	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 6/2019 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Chairman of the committee, represented by Vehviläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u253	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health deals with the level of unemployment insurance contributions next year. A total reduction of 0.49 percentage points is proposed for employees and employers in their unemployment insurance contributions in 2020. In addition, it is proposed to increase the ceiling for the economic buffer of the Employment Fund from the expenditure corresponding to the unemployment rate by 5.0 percentage points to the expenditure corresponding to the unemployment rate by 6.0 percentage points. The proposal also proposes to amend the limits on the wages and salaries sum applicable to the contribution and the adjustment of monthly earnings on the condition of employment of the entrepreneur. On the basis of the Government's proposal and the report it has received, the committee considers the proposed amendments to be justified. The reduction in unemployment insurance contributions is estimated to reduce the contribution income of the Employment Fund by around EUR 419 million. However, even after a reduction in contributions, the return on unemployment insurance contributions will secure the financing of unemployment insurance. The payments presented are estimated to have a surplus of EUR 213 million in 2020. The increase in the ceiling for the cyclical buffer and other proposed changes to the cyclical buffer will improve the economic sustainability of the Employment Fund and ensure stability and predictability of unemployment insurance contributions. In the context of positive economic and employment developments, the ceiling under the permanent law of the cyclical buffer has proved to be too low, according to the Government's proposal. According to the proposal, the maximum cyclical buffer will increase from EUR 1460 million in 2019 to an estimated EUR 1757 million in 2020. The Committee considers it important that the level of unemployment insurance contributions can be kept as stable as possible. The committee's report on this is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u254	The 16th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 7/2019 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u255	Mr President! Report 7/2019 vp by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on the amendment of Article 148 of the Act on Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases. This article defines the percentages provided for in the financing of the total costs by which the various financial intermediaries contribute to the overall costs of the scheme for occupational accidents and occupational diseases for farmers. The amendment is expected to enter into force at the beginning of next year. The total cost of compulsory accident insurance for the agricultural entrepreneur and the grantee under the Act on Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases of the Agricultural Entrepreneur includes compensation costs, occupational safety costs and reasonable care costs. The total costs are financed by the basic security component, the premium share of farmers and grant beneficiaries, the central government share and the return on investments. The basic security component covers social insurance benefits to which the farmer would be entitled without the accident insurance scheme for farmers but which, because of the priority order of the benefit schemes, is paid through it. Institutions responsible for the basic security benefits are involved in the financing of basic security, the Social Insurance Institution in respect of benefits saved under the scheme under the Health Insurance Act and the National Pensions Act, and the Agricultural Entrepreneurs Pensions Institution in respect of benefits saved under the scheme under the Agricultural Entrepreneur Pensions Act. Other costs of the accident insurance scheme for farmers are additional cover, which is covered by insurance premiums and by state resources. In addition, the State indirectly contributes to the financing of the basic security contribution because the State is responsible for part of the benefit expenditure of the Social Insurance Institution and the Farmers Pensions Institution on the basis of the Health Insurance Act, the National Pensions Act and the Agricultural Entrepreneurs Pension Act. The contributions of the sponsors of accident insurance for farmers and grant beneficiaries shall be adjusted for a fixed period of time as changes in benefits and affecting them alter the ratio of basic and additional security and contributions. The Government's proposal is based on the latest revision calculation based on the Register of Accident and Occupational Disease Compensation and Occupational Pensions paid by the Farmers' Pensions Institution in 2018. According to the proposal, the relative share of basic cover financed by the Social Insurance Institution and the Farmers' Pension Institution in the total cost of the scheme will be reduced from 37% to 31.6% and the proportion of additional cover financed by the insured and the State will increase from 63% to 68.4%. The share of the Social Insurance Institution in the total cost of the scheme will fall from 27.6% to 24.8%, i.e. by EUR 1 million in euros. The share of the farmer pension institution in the total cost of the scheme will fall from 9.4% to 6.8%, i.e. by approximately EUR 0.9 million in euros. As the contribution to additional security increases, the contribution of the insured and the State will increase. The contribution of insured persons will increase from 33.5% to 37.3%, i.e. by around EUR 1.4 million. The increase in the contribution of insured persons creates a need for an increase of around 15 % in the premium. The direct contribution of the State will increase from 29.5% to 31.1%, i.e. by EUR 0.5 million. However, the central government’s share of the basic security contribution is estimated to decrease by EUR 1.5 million. Overall, the State will contribute around EUR 16.8 million to the total cost of the scheme in 2020, which is around EUR 1 million less than the legal situation in force. The committee supports the adoption of amendments to the financial contributions as proposed. The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u256	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 4/2019 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u257	Mr President! One of the most serious problems and challenges facing our country at the moment is that our birth rate has collapsed to a historically low level. This will make it more and more difficult for us to think about where we can get enough labour and how we can finance our social and health services, for example. We need the young people in this country to go to school and study, and then we need a lot of work. It is great that the Board of Directors commits the student grant and the study grant supplement and student grant decided last season to the index of the guardianship breed. In its report, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs states that indexation reduces the purchasing power of student aid and ensures the sustainability of the system and the level of income of students. This is also a matter of principle. Mr President! We need more children in this country, and it is important to support families with children in many ways in strengthening a child-friendly and family-friendly Finland. In this respect, it is valuable that a level increase of EUR 25 is made in the share of custody in the course of study support, with a total increase of EUR 100 per month. This is an important hand-out for family students. For a long time, the aim of the central youth and the students was to restore the guardian raise to the student allowance, which was abolished in the early days of the recession in 1992. During the last parliamentary term, a decision was made to re-introduce the guardian raise, and from 2018 onwards EUR 75 per month has been paid to approximately 14,000 students during the academic year. On an annual basis, the number of recipients has been around 22,000. The dependant’s increase applies to those who are the guardians of a child under the age of 18. Improving the care-sharing breed will target support for students in the most difficult situation. The opportunities for a family student to work alongside studies are often more challenging than for a family-free student. It is also important to improve the income of students in other ways. For example, when it comes to the income limits for students in employment, I would be prepared to look at them, and I think it is important that we should also have good decisions on that during this period.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u258	Mr President! Investing in education is investing in the future. Olli and Elli Student with their child cattra are grateful for the board's presentation. By facilitating participation in education, for example by improving student support, we promote equality and equality in education. One of the reasons for Finland's development and prosperity is that everyone, regardless of their background, has as equal opportunities as possible to move on the school path according to their strengths and find their own place in this society. The Student Support Act has been prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Culture and Kela. The student grant is linked to the national pension index. This encourages major learning. In addition to the basic amounts of the study grant, the index relates to the increase in the guardian of the study grant, the study grant material supplement and the so-called low-income increases in the study grant. The benefits thus follow the evolution of the cost of living. According to the 2019 school health survey, as many as 21 per cent of students in the first and second years of upper secondary school took paid jobs alongside school work. This can reduce the progress of studies and burden students who are already struggling with coping. It is worth remembering that the mental health problems of young people have increased in recent times. Employment has increased by 2% over the last two years. When we also heard students in the Committee on Education, it turned out that many students find the student support system complicated. One of the reasons is the different parts of the study grant mentioned above. It was necessary to provide for the amount of the care-sharing and material supplement instead of the level increase of the study grant as a separately defined part of the study grant. It is important that the government further improves the custody increase returned during the last government term by EUR 25. As we heard, the guardian raise was abolished in the early years of the recession of the 1990s and returned to the tune of EUR 75 during the last term of government. Now it will rise to EUR 100. I believe that this will help young people to commit themselves and start a family while they are studying. A guardian raise better enables simultaneous learning and caring for children. It contributes to reducing the need for family students to rely on income support. It is also one good step towards a child-friendly Finland. Of course, it is necessary to note that the context of the aid is complex. Student allowance is linked to both the school system and social security. In the context of the wider reform of social security, it is worth pursuing the objective of simplifying the system. The student allowance must also be assessed in connection with the extension of compulsory education age. It is important that, in the future, the time limit for voluntary return of study aid is foreseeable for beneficiaries and that a sufficient period of voluntary return is ensured. Mr President! I believe that the improvements in student support will reduce student debt. Students can focus even more on their studies, graduate within a reasonable time and get caught in a loaf of bread and build this society. According to the Amisbarometri 2017, as many as 34 per cent of family vocational education students had had to resort to quick credit or consumer credit. Helped by the custody race, family students can complete their studies better as the financial situation improves. It is always worth investing in education.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u259	Mr President! It is, of course, good that improvements are being made to the students, but it must now be noted that, firstly, these increases and indexation do not allow the fact that the student's livelihood remains an alternative to either raising a student loan or working. But I do not think that work is a bad thing, because it may lead to a job at some point, and on the other hand, we have heard here that we also have a serious shortage of labour in some areas, so students also make up for labour shortages with part-time work. If I have heard Mr Aittakummu's speech correctly, you have said that the government may even be looking at the abolition of income limits or their reassessment this period, and that sounds very reasonable — and perhaps it would also be worth considering these excesses of recovery that students have. These are ways that could really help students' finances. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u260	Mr President! Indeed, I expressed the hope that these income limits could be examined. As far as I know, no decision has been taken on this, but we have recently had a bill in motion that wishes it, and I signed that bill. It is therefore my personal wish and that of many other Members of Parliament to be able to look at it, because it is a huge problem at the moment. As we all know, the recovery of student study aid for working students poses major problems, so it would be good to encourage and enable students to work better than at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u261	And the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u262	Mr President! This compares the situation four years ago, when there was also a new government and the budget was discussed in this Chamber. Compared to this budget and to this tone of how we are discussing today, there is a difference between night and day. Last time, there was surgery, surgery, freezing and so on. Today we have just had three different legislative proposals on the budget, which are now genuinely improving the lives of vulnerable groups. We have talked about raising the smallest pensions, we have talked about raising child allowances, and now we are talking about improving student allowance. There will be a great welcome at all levels, and today, as a crown, when there is still a debate about ending the active model that disciplines the unemployed, there is a festive atmosphere here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u263	Mr President! At this point I cannot fail to respond to Mr Kiljunen's admirably in this debate on the increase in expenditure today. It is always a good thing to be able to help the disadvantaged, but I must say that I certainly hope that the government will achieve its employment objective and that the prospects for the economy which now seem to be coming will not strike with all its strength, because the fact is that something will be cut — or, alternatively, debt will be taken, but there is no very sustainable road either.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u264	Just a brief comment. The government is investing in employment, that is what we all know, and that is why we have been talking about raising the employment rate to 75%, which will provide the resources to build this welfare society and also to these public transfers. And don't be so afraid of that debt. You don't have to be so afraid of it. On a world scale, Finland has the fourth lowest net debt — the fourth lowest
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u265	Mr President! These improvements in student support are very welcome. In the morning I was at the ‘Tests of poverty and at the same table of MPs’ and the situation of children studying for However, as has been said in several speeches in this Chamber, reforms are needed other than these alone.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u266	Mr President! Just a few more minutes to finance these increases in expenditure. Just as Mr Kiljunen has well said, the government is strongly committed to the need for employment in this country throughout the whole empire. This is, of course, a prerequisite for us to be able to finance these good and important expenditure increases. Yes, the government has a clear will to improve employment, which was well highlighted today in the debate on this active model. There are many actions and new measures to be taken, including good measures to support entrepreneurship, and now this employment policy is actively pursued and the situation is constantly being monitored. But, for example, this increase in the proportion of the child-care allowance will have a positive impact on our country in the long term when we think that family support strengthens society and will ultimately benefit the country financially.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u268	Mr President! Like a representative. Aittakumpu said just now, this parental increase will certainly reduce the amount of work being done. Of course, working during study is not quite a one-pipe thing. In some areas, it is very natural to work and to combine theoretical studies and practical work and make learning deeper. And, of course, vocational education has periods of learning at work and theoretical studies. Of course, in recent years, due to cuts, there has been too little local education, and now we are increasing it. All in all, however, it is good that young people are not forced to go to work and take greater account of this ability to cope. But then the study aid and the system must also be considered when we look at this continuing learning and the maintenance of the skills of the working population that it consists of. That is the subject of future reflections.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u269	Mr President! With this in mind, I would like to raise the point raised by Mrs Kiljunen that it is quite a nice atmosphere at the moment: we have a long list of things that this government is now improving, unlike last season when it was cutting. I could also point out the same thing that I mentioned earlier that I also sign that this is definitely not enough for students or for families with limited resources, but more needs to be done. But I see for myself that this is a really good start in every respect, that we are now starting this correction on a matter that has been taken in the wrong direction. I could also point out that I am also a member of this House who believes that an increase in the student income threshold could be considered, and I have also signed this good bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u270	Mr President! I am definitely in favour of focusing on the income of students to enable full-time study to be provided, and in this respect this increase in government student support is very important. But just as Mr Berg here said earlier, this work is just as essential to our students' everyday lives. And from an international point of view: although we have relatively longer student study hours than in the rest of Europe, then in our second relationship, students will be employed very quickly in their studies and occupations, and then, of course, they will also become good taxpayers relatively quickly when compared, for example, to many countries in southern Europe where these study periods may be short. But the sum summarum: this government proposal for an increase in student allowance is a good thing, and we should go in that direction to enable full-time study.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u271	Chairman! After the international development of student support systems, of course it is a starting point — and so is Finland — for the purpose of providing student support to enable a person to study full-time. So then it is, in a way, a work-like contribution, and this is the direction in which, of course, we must go. After all, there is another situation — we also have such forms of study — when there is room for an internship, but that is different, and the main point must be that the student does not have to eat oatmeal and pea soup either to get along and to be able to study or go to work at the same time as he is studying. In any case, it means that efficiency is quite different.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u272	The 18th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u273	Mr President! In my bill, I propose to add to the criminal code a section on the scene of the accident regarding the victims. So it is good to see from the outset that my bill does not propose that a picture of a fugitive suspect or an overall picture of the scene of the accident should not be taken. These could sometimes even be of benefit to the police, among other things. With smart phones equipped with cameras, a desperate culture has landed in Finland where people at the scene dig out their cell phones as a first reaction. In addition, the material described is uploaded to the Internet and social media for others to view as quickly as possible. Road accidents in particular cause people to grab their cell phones. The primary aim of the bill is to safeguard privacy in times of need, but also to ensure safety in the event of accidents. In addition, the purpose of the law is to denounce the activities of outsiders describing the victims of accidents and crimes. In 2017, dozens of motorists stopped at the scene of the accident to describe the situation. This, at the latest, prompted public operators and organisations to take a stand against filming at the site of the accident. In 2018, traffic security launched the Don't Photo campaign, which specifically asked people not to shoot at the accident sites. This year's Traffic Safety Helpers campaign invites motorists to pass the crash site smoothly at low speed and without unnecessary flint. In order to enhance their message, they have, together with the North Karelia Rescue Department, published a picture on the social media entitled “Someoroti—a picture of the site of the accident in a safe and secure way”. The Finnish Red Cross The SPR instructs you to help first, stay out of the way of professionals and leave people unspoiled. Security and rescue professionals have also expressed concern about the phenomenon. The Emergency Hospital of Tampere University has appealed to the social media not to describe another’s distress. According to it, there are only two purposes for a smartphone in distress: alerting and, if necessary, locating aid. Last month, the South-East Finland police announced that you are the best help when you do not socialize at the accident and crime scene. The dissemination of the material described may already result in criminal penalties, but it is already harmful. It can cause dangerous situations for the photographer himself, but also for other road users in particular. Bystanders may interfere with the location of the accident and the leaving of vehicles for the purpose of imaging may cause incidents. It has been suggested, particularly from the rescue staff, but also from the police, that filming at accident and crime scenes should be considered. The Ministry of the Interior has responded to the concerns of security and rescue personnel in order to monitor the situation and then draw conclusions on the development of legislation. However, it is clear already that there are few, if any, points of view in favour of this description and that there are many and strong points of view against it. Internationally, the phenomenon is the same, and countries such as Germany in 2016 and Sweden in 2018 have made legislative changes that may result in punishment for shooting at the scene of an accident. The citizens themselves have wanted a change in the culture of action at the sites of accidents. This is explained, among other things, by the Adressi of describing accident sites as a fine and the Citizens' Initiative to criminalise the description at the scene of the accident. No one wants news of a loved one’s injury or even death to come through social media, not only for the family, but also for the whole world at once. I don't see any harm in the ban on filming at the scene of the accident. In Finland, for example, until now, the media has not published pictures of the victims of the accident. The extent of the accident or destruction can be described in the media or even in private media with location pictures after the injured have been removed from the scene. There should be no need for pictures of injured or killed by any private person. According to the police the other day, in the Salo fatal accident, bystanders had stopped and started filming a motorist who died in pursuit. Similarly, in Kuopio’s horrendous blood work, bystanders had sought to describe the use of a police officer’s weapon rather than to make sure that they themselves were safe. So people describe a situation in which in an instant you may be faced with the rampages with a sword or a gun. In a violent situation, ‘run, hide, fight for a ‘changed’ picture, picture, picture’ practice. However, the most shocking event I have ever met is Yle’s story about young people in a car accident. There were five injured youths, and the first man to arrive at the scene of the accident felt relief when he found that others stopped there. Instead of helping, the drivers were just sitting there. The man was the first to get to the car and ask for help. He noticed that the cars depicted severely injured youths lying on the ground. Regardless of the cries for help, people kept on filming. The relatives of one young person who had an accident will never see him alive again; he died at the scene of the accident. Mr President! Common sense says no one should photograph the victims at the scene, but unfortunately not everyone seems to have this when the problem is on the increase. My bill seeks, at the risk of punishment, to prevent the emergence of incidents that result from describing bystanders at the scene of an accident. It would allow us to punish shameless acts. In addition, my proposal would protect and respect the privacy of victims of an accident. It would be good for the government to send out a message by law that the loss of another's need and life is not a place of photography; we deeply disapprove of this activity. The term “change in the operating environment” often flashes both in the public administration and in political speech. This initiative is just about to respond to one issue that is caused by a change in the operating environment. This change requires a number of measures and sometimes legislative changes. I hope that the government will take seriously the denial of the victims of crime and accidents mentioned in this initiative. At the same time, I appeal to the delegates as well as every person to consider whether you would like to be photographed as being perhaps bruised, weak or lost in life at the time of the accident. Would you like your child to stay and describe a situation in which people have lost their lives violently and where the child really does not know if he or she is still in danger? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u274	Mr President! Mr Rantanen's bill — and his speech — is exceptionally serious and heavy. If I have not signed it — I hope I have signed it — at least with this speech, I strongly support the initiative you have taken. You also had exceptionally careful reasoning, which is why the description of accidents of this kind is neither human nor reasonable. That was certainly the point that was actually quite a shocking story when you told us that man is filming and not helping, which should be the first task. But in just as many situations there has been an arrangement to describe and interfere with relief measures. There are people there who should not be present when they should be quick to try to help. Here is the taste when these accidents are described as having at their worst a taste of one another’s distress, a terrible situation. After all, there is also a background that someone may even imagine that it will benefit him in such a way that he gets a good angle on some terrible situation, that it might even have a new value in some setting. If this is the motive behind it, it is even more so, it can be said, a more cynical attitude toward the seriousness of the situation itself. Thank you to the representative for having taken this initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u275	Mr President! I would also like to thank Mrs Ranta for the very necessary legislative initiative and also, as Mrs Kiljunen said, for the very good speech. I have also understood that problems often arise in the event of accidents, precisely because, instead of helping, those present are focusing on filming and then also causing disruption to both rescue and medical staff in the event of an accident and, as you pointed out very well in your speech, often also put themselves at risk in the event of an accident.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u276	Mr President! Thanks for the thanks. I also see that this is a matter of this time, which I think we should look at in this House. I know that this bill has given rise to a bit of a surprise: ‘nomites’, has already ‘and’as ‘nohish’. In a way, there is also the fact that the rescue personnel have no way of getting anyone out of there when it is not criminalised. In a way, the problem is they're coming. The police, on the other hand, always have a way of doing so, with instructions and, if necessary, with orders to remove them, but as long as they are not there, but there is rescue and emergency care, this is difficult. And, in fact, this bill has been based on the fact that that wish has come from the field, and I believe that we should look at the issues of this time here too. Of course, I hope that this will be considered in this house and in the ministries before something happens because of it. I now have to say that I saw a video from Kuopio, where a young person describes the situation of police use without knowing whether there is a plus one situation, whether there is another factor around the corner, for example, and it is always extremely, extremely dangerous, both in road traffic and in such crimes. I would like people to use their judgment and patience on this matter and to keep themselves first and foremost safe, to keep the workers safe and also to respect the privacy of others.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-11-12-ps-62.u277	A 19th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 8 November 2019.
