ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the Minister to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u2	Congressman Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u3	Mr President! The government's activities in a secretive operation involving people who are being transported from Al-Hol to Finland are changing day by day. It is clear from the documents that Finland has prepared and scheduled the transport to Finland of children and women who have left to serve ISIS and Islamic extremists. Prime Minister Marin has stated that this is a matter of silent government approval. No other EU country has brought adult ISIS into the country. Some countries prevent return, others eliminate dual citizenship, others imprison residents in the region. Mr Kulmuni, Minister for Prime Minister: how can the government voluntarily give its consent to the import of adults who have left to support terrorism?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u4	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Purra, for a good question. Last one, Antti Rinte's board is 31.10. dealt with this issue in connection with her evening school. In this context, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, I have set out a policy on how to deal with this issue. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also appointed a minister's special representative, who has then been able to move around the region, to discuss with different countries how the child's best interests would be realised in this situation, where a number of Finnish children are in prison camp-like conditions at the al-Hol camp.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u6	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u7	Mr President! The repatriation of these persons constitutes a significant security threat for Finland, according to the supo. According to Supo, they are likely to continue terrorist activities, network with each other and integrate into domestic jihadist networks. Dr Nemam Ghafouri, who helps victims of Isis, including the Sisides, has said that he has not seen any Isis fighters' wives who would regret going to the Caliphate. Ghafour thinks they're monsters, not mothers. They hope that the caliphate of Isis will continue through their children. The release of Isis women would be a fulfillment of the wishes of the jihadists. Minister Haavisto: Does the government not care about the risk assessment of the contribution? Will you take personal responsibility if these people take terrorist action against Finns?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u8	Mr President! Thank you, Mr. Purra. It is very important that the overall consideration of this issue and of helping children is also taken into account in terms of safety. Among other things, there has been an interview today, in which the representative of this Syrian Kurdish regime also deals with these security aspects for different persons and these assessments will be taken into account. The protection police and police assessments are a very important part of this overall assessment that we are making in this work, but we believe that the issues relating to the interests of children and the issues relating to the rights of the child must also be fully taken into account here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u9	Because I have received advance information that also the parliamentary group and the movement of the National Coalition Party The questions raised by the delegation now concern the same theme, we will also take these questions and we will have a debate on this theme for about 40 to 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u10	Congressman Vestman.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u11	Mr President! The government's action on the Al-Hol issue has been cowardly. No political decision has been taken. On the other hand, it seems that the Foreign Minister has put the task of making a decision on the part of civil servants. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has falsely argued that the solution of the Chancellor of Justice would form the legal basis for a secret plan for transporting Isis families to Finland. The Coalition Party wants Finland to follow the Nordic line. We do not want any jihadist, a person involved in the activities of the Isis terrorist organisation, to be brought to Finland. They've made their choices. According to the security police, when the Isis women return, they are likely to continue their terrorist activities. Instead, we must help the children. The government's activities undermine the confidence of Finns. The statements are contradictory, and no one takes responsibility. However, responsibility must be borne. You, the good government, have all the intelligence and legal expertise at your disposal. So I ask the Prime Minister's deputy: Minister Kulmuni, what is the government's line? Are you bringing jihadists to Finland? When are you going to make a decision that should have been made a long time ago?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u12	Mr President! As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said earlier, the government of Antti Rinte has dealt with this issue in its evening school and, in line with its policy, the Special Representative has been appointed there to investigate the situation and to work on how to help children. The government has not done any other reading in the political official bodies, and the normal process of
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u13	Mr President! Indeed, other Nordic countries have followed a line in which people involved in the Isis Caliphate are not brought back. Other Nordic countries have also taken steps to close the possibility that these jihadists themselves will try to return. Denmark, for example, has taken legislative action to withdraw citizenship abroad in the case of an armed terrorist group or a twin citizen involved in such activities. What legislative measures has the government taken to reduce the risk of these individuals returning on their own?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u14	Mr President! Thank you for your question. Indeed, the government will go through the legislative development needs that exist in this area. Of course, you, the previous government, have also had the opportunity to promote these legislative projects in the fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u15	Congressman Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u16	Mr President! According to a report by the Finnish Broadcasting Company, an increasing number of public officials have been subjected to so-called targets. One of the factors behind this phenomenon has been overlooked. As the Al-Hol case shows, officials are faced with excessive situations when political decision-makers are afraid to make clear decisions. [Right : Yes! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u17	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Harkilo, for your question. Targeting is indeed a phenomenon that undermines social peace. In recent days, it has become apparent that even the democratically elected political actors in this Chamber have spread disinformation about our authorities, who act with official responsibility, who work for the security of our Finns, work for every Finnish citizen, who is very much trusted by Finns. It is a very worrying development that political actors undermine confidence in the police, in the judiciary, in Customs, as in this last case. [ Hulls — The President knocks]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u19	President! Prime Minister Marin has said that the policy of Foreign Minister Haavisto is a silent endorsement of the entire government. [Department :Oh! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u20	Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u21	Mr President! As has already been pointed out in previous speeches, the government has indeed dealt with a policy in the evening school on the presentation of the Foreign Minister, and he is the minister responsible for the preparation of this matter by the government. The priority axis has been the appointment of a special representative to find out how to help children,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u22	Mr President! This issue is enormously important from the point of view of foreign and security policy and humanely, and it is therefore very strange that once this has been going on for months, the government still has no position on this issue. How could this be so? There are two ministers sitting on the left, who have different lines of action on this issue,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u23	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Häkkänen, for the question. As I said before, the line of action that Antti Rinte's Government has also followed this government under the leadership of Marin is that the Foreign Minister is in charge of that preparation. It has been decided that a special representative should be set up there to find out how to help people along the routes of the authorities. And yes, all the time in this process, which is very complicated and difficult, we must weigh national and internal security and the state and circumstances of the Finnish children in which they are in, and I am sure we will continue this debate here next week too, and the government will provide the answers to the opposition's interlocutory question. In fact, this is the same situation in all Nordic countries, for example, so Finland is not in a unique situation with regard to what is happening in that camp at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u24	Mr. Speaker! This Al-Hol debate can be approached from at least three points of view, i.e. the perspective of these Isis mothers and children, then there is the matter of the staff of the Foreign Office and then, in my opinion, what is quite important too, is this Parliament's decision-making and confidence perspective — and now that we have had meetings in June, October and December on this theme, we have not heard once, Mr Foreign Minister, that such an operation is going on or even planned, because the opposite message has come to us in committee. And when we discussed this at 15.10. Last, according to the news, only two or three days after that, you have had an e-mail discussion with a special assistant about the opposite measures, Deputy Prime Minister,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u25	Mr President! I have tried my best to inform Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs on the situation in Syria and the war against Isis, the results of the war. Of course, Finland has also supported this anti-Isis action and we continue to support it. We have joined, among other things, the coalition against Isis, and we will do everything we can to prevent Isis from spreading from this Syrian region. I have informed the Committee on Foreign Affairs of all of this. Last time we had a debate on it, and I understood that the Committee on Foreign Affairs had no further need for information after that debate, but I would also like to open up all the details. There are also some things that are very confidential, but of course I would be happy to inform Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs about everything that is possible. I'm always available.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u26	Mr President! This Parliament is being asked about the adults who have voluntarily gone to support this barbaric terrorist organisation. Instead, the government is responsible for the children. [Department :Oh! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u27	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Zyskowicz, for the question. This is a debate that has been going on in the government since the summer: What would be the steps that could be taken to negotiate with this Kurdish administration that maintains the camp what they are prepared to do? Are they ready to let these Finnish children out of there? On what terms and beyond. — This is what I, as Minister, had to find a solution for how to deal with this issue. This is the Minister's Special Representative. He's got a policy. That policy has been discussed in connection with the Government's evening school. There has been no comment, and since then this special representative has been able to start his own work. His mandate, his work, has been reviewed in the State Department on behalf of the High Command. There is nothing illegal about it, and no one has criticised the fact that this policy is not the right one.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u28	Mr. Speaker! Isis' terrorists have enslaved, raped, tortured and murdered. It should be obvious that those who have become terrorists in Isis have no access back to Finland. Terrorists must not be carried here as honorary citizens under the pretext of having children. Children are no excuse to transport terrorists to Finland. Rather, Finland should ensure and strive to ensure that terrorists get what they deserve in Syria, where they themselves, of their own volition, have entered this barbaric Isis cult. So I ask: how does the government promote the legal conviction of these Isis terrorists, including women Isis terrorists, in Syria?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u30	Mr President! I fully agree, Mr Tavio, with you, with regard to the atrocities, the atrocities that Isis has committed, and also with the government, with the view that people who have committed crimes should have their sentences and should preferably receive their sentences in the area where the crimes have taken place. We have responded when we were asked that fighters of a possible Finnish background in Syria or Iraq, who are now in prison, should be condemned in that area. We have also expressed its will that if there is to be such an international hybrid court with international participation, we will be happy to support it in order to bring all those who committed the crime there into the jurisdiction of the courts. The only limit we have indicated here is that we do not accept the death penalty, but we want terrorists to be judged in the area where the crimes have taken place.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u31	Mr President! Under the leadership of the State, Mr President, you have the best information, through the protection police and other experts, both in terms of security threats and in terms of individuals. The power and responsibility for the overall assessment and decision are therefore limited to the government. The least that citizens deserve and expect in this situation is transparency, political, clear and responsible. The Coalition Party has called for Finland to join in a line that is also in other Nordic countries. Finnish orphan children and small children with the consent of the guardian should be removed from the camp, to safety. The Nordic countries have been able to release individual orphan children. Sweden has released 7 orphans, Norway 5 orphans, France 15, Germany 3, Denmark with the consent of one mother and another child who was an orphan. My question is: what has the government done, and if it is now clear that it has not, what is it going to do with Finnish orphans?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u32	Mr President! It's a very important question. There is a difference between orphans and orphans that some have been in such situations, one might say in the child welfare institutions that exist in that area, and some are in families with children of the same age. In our own decision-making, we have also had to take into account an overall assessment of those who are placed with children of the same age in families. But orphan children have been one of our priorities in the discussions we have with the Kurdish administration that governs this region.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u33	Congressman Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u34	Mr President! A child is always a child above all else. The child is never guilty of the actions of his or her parents, and the child is a child even then, even if his or her parents did something terrible. Human rights agreements, such as the Convention on the Rights of the Child, exist precisely for those difficult moments. They exist because even in the most difficult situations it would be clear to us what to do. According to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, every child — every child — has the right to life. It is an inalienable right that we must uphold and pursue in all our activities. It has been shocking to note that even some politicians in this Chamber would be prepared to leave these children in the camp, at their worst to die. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: what has Finland done to help the Finnish children in Al-Hol, so that the requirement of an agreement on the rights of the child is safeguarded and that every child has the right to life?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u35	Mr President! Perhaps many of these government measures have already been raised in the debate, but I will tell you what was the first action in the summer when the government started. We were very concerned about the situation of some children with regard to food, with regard to health care, and we wanted to ensure that, while decisions can be prepared on other matters, children are not left without care and no health care, and we have supported international organisations, including the Red Cross, who has been able to do what is best for them there in the camp or in the vicinity of the camp. We have also been working through our own information channels all the time to monitor children's health, and of course we also have the capacity to act quickly if there is a crisis. The crisis was very close when Turkey attacked Syria and it was possible that Al-Hol's security, maintenance, medical services would have completely collapsed. It would have been possible for all Finns to move from there.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u36	Mr President! Women who ended up at the Al-Holi camp have voluntarily joined in to support terrorist activities. The other Nordic countries will certainly also comply with international agreements, including agreements on children's rights, and none of these countries has, however, wanted to go and repatriate adults involved in terrorist activities, but the Finnish Government has prepared this. The question is: did the Minister of Foreign Affairs order an official to carry out the repatriation of the children in the Al-Hol camp and also their mothers and to carry out this operation on his own behalf, without the political decision of the government, with the so-called silent approval of the evening school? Is this the whole government line? Is Mr Kulmuni, the Deputy Prime Minister, aware that this appointment of the Special Representative of the Foreign Minister is the so-called silent approval, or have you given the truth?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u37	Mr President! Thank you, Mrs Essayah, for the question. As has been said, the policy has been pursued here and has been prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the part of the government and proposed by the evening school, and the policy has therefore been that the special representative should be sent there and he should explain with official responsibility, by the authorities, how to help children in these inhumane circumstances. A political decision has not been taken at a meeting of the Government or, for example, with the President of the Republic in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security, and there is no such political line by the Government that all people will be brought out.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u38	Mr. Speaker! The international community has won a significant victory over the Isis Caliphate, not least because of the Kurdish activities, which we have also supported. As a result, a large number of prisoners, including more than 10,000 women and children, have now been held by the Kurds. Should the international community not now shoulder its responsibilities to the end by ensuring that all those guilty of war crimes are brought to bear legal responsibility for their actions and, on the other hand, that, due to the wrong choices of their parents, such detention conditions, children who are left in a state of emergency are removed?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u40	Mr President! Thank you, Congressman Judgments, for a good question. The Kurdish administration has had a very constructive relationship with the international community in this situation. They are in a difficult situation where, for example, the Turkish invasion of Syria took place. However, they continued to take care of this camp’s medical and food supplies and guarding that the situation did not turn chaotic with the children there. In this respect, we have, of course, made every effort to recognise the important role played by this Kurdish regime. But it is true that they have been burdened, as it were, by these prisoners of both Iraq and Syria in the Al-Hol camp and by international prisoners or people who have been interned there. They are negotiating with different countries on how to restore these people. There are countries to which the citizens of their own country have been returned as a whole, and then there are different solutions, different directions, including for European countries. We are involved in this negotiation, and we have also been very careful to compare our actions with those of other European countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u42	Mr President! Mr Kulmuni, since you are constantly repeating the same taught lines in your answers, I am now asking you questions that you can answer very simply yes or no: Do you accept the introduction of Isis women into Finland? Answer yes or no. Are you taking the terrorist warnings seriously? Yes or no? Mr President! Mrs Kulmuni: Who in the government is personally responsible if one of the Isis women or their teenage offspring does something to Finnish children or young people?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u43	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Antikainen, for your questions. I must tell you that you certainly know that these people who are there in the camps are Finnish citizens. They have every opportunity and right to come within the borders of Finland, regardless of how this room feels about it. As a Finnish citizen, they always have the right and the opportunity to come to Finland. Then this line of action, which I have repeated — it is good if you have heard and noticed it. I am sure it will be clear how the government, under the leadership of the Foreign Minister, is going to be.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u44	Congressman... Who has the floor? — — — — Congressman Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u45	Congressman Ovaska. — Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the government and, above all, thank the Foreign Minister for having informed and also made available to the groups this week. There has been a lot of uncertainty and a lot of questions open here, and it is therefore important that these issues are now discussed properly, and we will have further discussions next week.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u48	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Ovaska, for a good question. This is precisely the role of the State Department officials in this situation. Compared to the fact that information relating to individual individuals would then be brought to the board of government, the State Department, together with the various authorities mentioned here — police, protection police, security authorities — will be able to make this assessment on an individual basis and to obtain both the information of our own authorities on these persons and any information from the Kurdish authorities and other authorities in the region. We must have all this knowledge in our individual judgement on the situation of different families. And this is what officials have done and are doing by maintaining these international networks of contacts.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u49	Mr President! When I've been following this Al-Hol situation over the last few weeks in the media, it's a mess. The different parties in the government are divided, but there has also been information in the media that sources of officials have become aware that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also being run in a very special way. There is an atmosphere of fear. But my real question relates to these orphan children and children. The reason why the Nordic countries have chosen the line of bringing orphan children is that it will not be necessary to deal with this problem of adults. Government, if you are now going to bring children who still have surviving parents, then what is your family reunification policy? Will their mother and possibly their combatants also be brought here to Finland in the future? How are you going to proceed?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u50	Mr President! If I first answer this question — thank you, Mr Kauuma — and I am happy to answer this first part. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this is difficult, as it is difficult for all Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u53	Mr President! Isis is a terrible and barbaric terrorist organization. It is wonderful that Islamist Caliphate was successfully defeated, above all by the Kurds. Anyone guilty of terrorism must be condemned, preferably where terrorism and war crimes have taken place.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u55	Mr President! I am not at all able to predict what political decisions can be taken, but I am sure that we could do something that would bring everything, and then it could be that no one would be imported, and then there could be a political decision to consider who would be imported. And now this line of thinking about who is being imported, on the basis of this individual information, is the line that has been discussed at the Council of State evening school, which is the Minister's policy and which is followed by the Minister's special representative, i.e. this individual consideration, in which both the situation of children and the need to take these security aspects into account. I believe that this reflection is best done with official responsibility and perhaps not by politicians.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u56	I give the floor to Mr Rantanen, Mr Adlercreutz and Mr Mykkänen on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u57	Mr President! It has now emerged from this debate that, since the summer, there has been a policy known to the government, not only from the evening school but from the summer, and it is not really clear what your policy is. But now, apparently, Minister Haavisto told me that we're considering who's being imported. Is this information true now? It is no longer clear to Parliament, neither the committees nor the people, what you are going to do, because there is public information that everyone who wants to be brought here this week has been brought here.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u59	Mr President! This line of action has now been presented in many ways in response to questions, but I would like to reiterate that we have a policy in which this special representative, on the basis of all the information available, is preparing discussions with the Kurdish authorities on who can be brought from the region, taking into account these security aspects and the information we have and have.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u62	Irade the Talman! It is, of course, as Mr Vestman said that we should have had a solution to this a long time ago. We have known this difficult situation for a year now, and the situation in the camp has not improved at all. Just as Mr Talvitie said, this is probably the best information for the government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I am convinced that a well-balanced outcome will be achieved in this very difficult matter, where different perspectives need to be considered. Of course, that work will be more difficult if there is a conscious dissemination of disinformation around this. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister: to what extent have there been discussions with the Kurdistan authorities? What is their view of the future of al-Hol: will it remain there for a long time, or is it a fear that it will suddenly erupt and all these present ones will spread to the environment? This could, of course, have happened as a result of the Turkish attack. What would they be like?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u63	As far as the Kurdish authorities are concerned, first of all: As I have said, they are acting with great responsibility, they have felt that they are doing this service, that they are well organized in their efforts to treat the Syrians, Iraqis and families and children who are currently interned in that camp. They want recognition of this work that they have done in this way, and discussions with them have been very constructive in various contexts. What is the future perspective of such a camp? So there is talk of a camp of 70,000 people, and it is very expensive to maintain it. They need international help to do so. They have asked for this on various occasions, and Finland has also helped them in these medical and other matters. In the long run, of course, they hope this camp will erupt. What worries me is that, also through different forms of bribery, possible smuggling, it may erupt, and then people may go into new Isis areas, and this is perhaps the most dangerous scenario that can happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u64	Mr President! As far as the decisions taken during the previous parliamentary term are concerned, we did make three lines of reference during the government at the time: firstly, there is no reason to help adults return. Secondly, we need to look for ways to release children, help them. And thirdly, what the ministries agreed on at the time is that if an active application is made for anyone, it requires the decision of the Government General Session. [Department :Actually! ] Since then, I have the impression that the briefing held by Minister Haavisto on 2 December seems to have been interpreted by the Chancellor of Justice in October so that it would allow a direct mandate to be exercised by the office, i.e. without the decision of the General Assembly of the Government. Now that this has become other ideas, Minister Haavisto, is the truth that stands today, that you see the chancellor's statement as a possibility for you to do so?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u65	The government will now be allowed to answer for a minute and a half when the time goes so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u66	Mr President! Indeed, this policy, which I am referring to here, has been dealt with in connection with the Government evening school in the presence of the Chancellor of Justice. No one had anything to say about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u67	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Mykkänen, for the question. The line of action that has been discussed here has indeed been addressed during Antti Rinte's government at that evening school. This problem relates to how parents and children can be separated if necessary, and has also been addressed in the answer given by the Chancellor of Justice to complaints made, for example, by members of the Government. The policy has been to first clarify and see what can be done and how to help, and precisely so that children's rights can be realised. But the political decision in the General Assembly of the Government on:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u68	This question is closed. At least for now.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u69	Next question, Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u70	Mr President! Private Sakari Räsänen participated in the battles of Syvär and Lapland but never received any advance support because he did not have a military code. This veteran, who is not related to me, said that let them go to those who need. A breast allowance is paid to a person with a military code. The right to search has ended, and we have veterans among us who were not aware of the importance of this symbol in due course, and it has not been applied for, or the application has been delayed. It was no longer possible to obtain the logo if it had not been applied for before 31.12.1994. If the information on the military passport and the master card were correct, the person could still be granted, if desired, a military service ID.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u71	President! Thank you, Mr Räsänen, for the question. We really do have people who have been at war but who do not have this code, as Mrs Räsänen said in her speech. These front symbols have been issued in due course by the Department of Military Science on application, and The Department of Military Science has determined, on the basis of its fortification record, the applicant’s right to this front code. We have recorded in the Government Programme that the support and services of veterans of our wars will be safeguarded, and on the basis of this entry I can promise Mr Räsänen that we in the Ministry will deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u74	Mr President! I now have to say that I thank you for this reply, which was the first good answer during this Question Time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u77	Mr President! This short interruption of the government does not affect this decided increase for veterans, but this increase of EUR 125 will take effect on April 1, as previously decided. This is because of these systems that this increase could not be implemented at the beginning of the year, but on 1 April, as decided. As far as this report is concerned, we will launch this study at the Ministry as soon as possible and then let you know how it is going.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u78	Next question, Mr Gustafsson.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u79	Mr President! A little happier for Question Time. According to a recent international Pisa study, Finnish children, young people are still the best in terms of literacy. [Arto Satose’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u80	When the question of the government party was so long, the minister will be allowed to answer in less than a minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u81	Mr President! As Mr Gustafsson points out, the Pisa results were both joy and sorrow. One of the joys, as noted here, is that Finland is still the top country in education, including reading, but we have a particular concern that the differences between pupils, i.e. children, are increasing, and this is reflected particularly in the fact that the decline in the results is estimated to be strongly linked to a reduction in reading activity and also a decrease in interest in reading, and in this study almost two thirds of the boys who responded replied that they only read if they had to. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u82	Next question, Congressman Könttä.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u83	Mr. Speaker! Britain is voting today in the parliamentary elections, which will also determine the future direction of the country in terms of the EU separation. The various stages of the UK EU separation process have been followed for a long time, including during the Finnish Presidency of the EU. If the UK's EU separation takes place at the end of January next year, negotiations on a trade agreement between the EU and the UK will begin immediately. In what way is the government prepared for negotiations on a new trade agreement, and how will the negotiations ensure that the conditions for exporting Finnish companies continue to exist in Great Britain and thus that Finnish jobs are maintained? I hope that the Minister for Foreign Trade can answer this undoubtedly important question for Finnish jobs, but also for Finnish trade policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u84	Mr President! Today is indeed an election day in Britain, a holiday. Finland is prepared for all scenarios and, as you described, the negotiation of agreements will certainly be challenging. The objective of Finland and the EU is unambiguously to get rid of the treaty. If this happens, everything will continue as it is now for Finnish companies in this transition period. Finland is well prepared, our companies, especially larger companies, are well prepared, but of course we are concerned about small and medium-sized enterprises, and that is why the Government has increased information on the Government's website and we are engaged in a very intensive dialogue. This timetable will be very tight next year, and that is why we will be able to apply for a further two years for this transitional period, and I believe that realistically this will be a success, but it will be a tough one. This is a very exceptional process, because now we are going to move away from the close.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u85	Next question, Mr Honkasalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u86	Mr President! This week is historic when the full subjective right to early childhood education was restored. Quality early childhood education is an important factor in preventing exclusion and facilitating later learning. Indeed, increasing the participation rate of early childhood education is on the agenda of many parties. One of the biggest issues in ensuring the quality of early childhood education is trained and motivated personnel. Childminders and teachers in early childhood education play a key role in achieving our goals for early education. Minister, the problems of access to early childhood education staff are commonplace throughout the country. What steps will the government take to ensure the future availability of early childhood education teachers throughout the country?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u87	Mr President! The availability of teachers in early childhood education is indeed, everywhere in Finland, a big challenge. It will certainly be influenced by a number of issues, such as attraction, pay for the sector, and working conditions, from which Mr Andersson can certainly continue further. We have three different types of action here in higher education. The funding for teacher education in early childhood education has now been increased by between EUR 2018 and 202128 million in order to increase the number of places to start. In addition, as a result of the degree targets, in the university contract negotiations this year, it will be considered whether there will also be an increase in the number of places to start. The second element is to see how career development can be supported in this area, with a budget of EUR 20 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u88	Next question, Congressman Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u89	Irade the Talman! Bristen på småbarnsfostran i Svenskfinland är verklogen batteries. Helsingfors stad klarar inte av att erbjuda dagisplatser till mer 50 familer som ansökt om Svenskspråkig dagisplats. Utrymmen finns, men Bristen på Svenskspråkig personal gör det omöjligt att ta estrot flera Svenskspråkiga Grupper. Cirka halften av barnen har anvisats till finsk småbarnsfostran. Rättigheten att få dagvård också på svenska är naturligtvis en grundrättighet.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u90	Mr President! One of the themes of the university contract negotiations is also to think about this issue, but we are also about to have a university accessibility plan, which will also consider this question, how to secure services for Swedish-speaking people and places of education. This will be completed in two years, which is why we should also make time for this. I know that the needs are at the moment, and that is why this issue will also be considered strongly in the negotiations on the agreements. These negotiations will end in June to May next year. In addition, we also wonder, through the gravitational survey, how Swedish-language kindergarten teacher training will lead, and we think that this training will be a secure field in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u91	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Audit Committee on TrVM 5/2019 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u92	Mr President! In this report, the Audit Committee deals with the Government's annual report on the subjects it chooses. The selected topics are based on the follow-up of Parliament's current positions. In its report, the committee proposes that Parliament adopt a six-point position. Five of these are based on the old positions contained in the report under the heading ‘Removals’. They are partly old, the oldest from 2011, and have been updated in the draft decision to reflect the current state of affairs. Combating the shadow economy: In 2015, the Audit Committee raised the need for a common picture of the situation of the authorities. It is now possible for decision-makers and citizens to gain an up-to-date understanding of the scope, prevention and phenomena of the shadow economy on the Grey Economy & Economic Crime website. Six ministries and 14 authorities or organisations involved in the fight against the shadow economy provide information to the site. The committee is of the opinion that the exchange of information between authorities has been promoted in many ways during the current operational programme. Among other things, a Incomes Register and the rights to information and disclosure by different authorities, such as money laundering or the financial activities of individuals and businesses and the management of public obligations have been established. This has improved cooperation between public authorities, enabled a more effective fight against the shadow economy and prevented the informal economy from entering many sectors. The committee notes, however, that the work is still ongoing and that the exchange of information can be further improved. In addition to the exchange of information between the authorities, the Audit Committee is in favour of increasing public access to information on the performance of obligations, and here it highlights the business information system. In the view of the Committee, the greatest threat to the fight against the shadow economy is linked to the fast-moving digital economy and the ability of public authorities to detect and combat the problems it poses. These relate, inter alia, to online store platforms and internationalisation, various payment instruments such as mobile payments and virtual currencies, and organised crime. The tax administration estimates that the tax deficit caused by various phenomena in the digital economy would increase over the next ten years to around EUR 450 million if the tools of advanced analytics were not available for this tax control. In its report, the committee has reviewed the operating conditions of the various authorities and compared the situation to one year ago. There has been no change for the better, and in some respects the situation has deteriorated. Internationalism, e-commerce and digitalisation bring new challenges to all those involved in the fight. Public authorities need additional funding to improve cooperation between authorities, develop technical interface solutions for the exchange of information and analyse activities. The committee stresses that the most important aspect of the fight against the black economy is to secure the operational resources of the authorities concerned. In addition to monitoring technology, human resources are also needed. This will ensure the accumulation of tax revenue that is important for the functioning of society. The Committee still considers it important to monitor the effectiveness of the measures taken. The measurement of effectiveness must continue despite its challenging nature, create indicators and develop data collection and statistics. Statement by the Audit Committee 1: ‘The committee proposes that the government report in the context of the Board’s annual report on the measures taken Next, on the exclusion of young people: On this point, the committee examined the progress made in implementing the position on the social exclusion of young people that it had taken on its initiative. An important problem is that there is no overall responsibility for the well-being of young people and their promotion. Children's, young people's and family's affairs are dealt with in a segregated way. The Committee believes that there is a need for comprehensive coordination and a clear responsibility for the services and support of children, young people and families. There are also problems with the short-term nature of the measures and their financing. Project-based and short-term funding is poorly suited. In addition, project funding always requires the creation of new development sites, even if there are already effective operating models. Moving to preventive action: Several experts consulted by the committee pointed out that children's and young people's problems still cannot be tackled at an early stage. As the aid is delayed, the problems get worse and bigger. Young people and their needs have not been adequately taken into account when reforming child and family services, but work is directed specifically at support for families and primary school-ageers and younger people. The Audit Committee stresses that the provision of services requires attention to the availability, accessibility and timeliness of the services needed by young people. The Committee on Audit is deeply concerned that over the last 18 years there has been a five-fold increase in the number of urgent investments. Availability of mental health and substance abuse services: The mental health services system of children and young people is fragmented, as the services are administratively placed under health care, education and social care. The mental health problems of children and young people cannot be adequately addressed at the basic level, which burdenes and congests specialised medical care. The Audit Committee considers it essential that mental health services for children and young people be made operational at a basic level and on a low threshold. Serious is the fact that municipalities invest children in foster care in the absence of mental health services. The committee does not consider this to be acceptable or appropriate for the management of the government's finances. Information flow between authorities: There are still gaps in the flow of information between authorities. However, confidentiality rules do not prevent cooperation between professionals in the services of children, young people and families. The problems of information flow are more often caused by lack of knowledge of legislation than by the legislation itself. The Audit Committee considers it important that the expertise of the authorities to ensure the flow of information is improved through training and guidance. Involvement of young people: The importance of young people's participation and the shortcomings experienced by young people were strongly highlighted in the expert hearings of the Committee. In the service experience of young people, the experiences of nullification and understatement and exclusion and exclusion are often repeated. A young person should be confronted and treated as an individual. The Audit Committee draws attention to the fact that information on young people's service experiences or unsatisfied service needs is not available. Information on the quality of services is limited. Then the moisture and mold problems of buildings: In the Committee's view, measures to improve the quality of construction and to prevent and reduce damage to moisture and mould have not been sufficient. The problems continue to arise both in public buildings and in the construction of new buildings. However, positive developments have taken place following the report of the Audit Committee in 2013 and Parliament's positions. The extensive and cross-administrative Healthy Spaces 2028 project started in 2018 will be important in the implementation of Parliament's positions. However, the pain point of the project is the lack of resources in relation to the scale of the problem. The Committee feels that the budget and human resources allocated to the project are insufficient to make a successful start and achieve the objectives set. Based on the expert consultation, municipalities cannot cope with indoor air management without financial incentives. Municipalities also need extensive guidance on indoor air issues. A number of projects to improve the operating conditions of municipalities have been proposed for the Healthy Facilities project. The cost impact of these measures is estimated at between EUR 3.5 million and EUR 4.5 million per year. The current allocation for the project is EUR 1.5 million per year. The Audit Committee has considered it necessary to improve knowledge and training in this area in order to provide sufficient expertise. For example, the Ministry of the Environment has not at times had any experts specialised in indoor air problems, and it has been difficult to find a qualified expert. In order to reduce indoor air problems, it would be important to increase multidisciplinary research. This would lead to a more comprehensive management of indoor air issues, a reduction in the current data conflict and conflict. Communication should be based on reliable research data. The opinion of the Audit Committee on point 4 reads as follows: ‘The Commission requires the Government to report on the concrete results of the Healthspace2028 project in the context of the annual report of the Board of Directors and to assess the effectiveness Finally, on the security of the State Department: In its report on the Board's Annual Report 2017, the Audit Committee drew attention to changes in the operating environment of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in particular to security risks. In examining the annual report for 2018, the Audit Committee has sought to clarify what measures have been taken to improve the security of the Foreign Affairs Administration. The Audit Committee welcomes the fact that appropriations have been allocated to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the development of information security. The Audit Committee will continue to pay attention to the adequacy of IT personnel, the development of the awareness and competence of all personnel and the state solutions of the Delegation in ensuring security. The Committee considers it important that special attention be paid to the development of an information security culture within the entire organisation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, at all levels. The last proposal for point 5 is as follows: ‘The government requires that the government continue to take measures to improve the IT security arrangements of the foreign affairs administration and report Finally, I would like to thank the committee for its excellent cooperation and for its contribution to this report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u93	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto, for the presentation. It was in accordance with the spirit of what is in committee, and in committee we have a tradition of not voting in general, and these matters were also dealt with in a good spirit, and in that way the spirit was as the chairman put it. An in-depth presentation went through things. However, I would like to raise a few points, and this is precisely where the exclusion of young people is concerned. The committee took a position in its report on the exclusion of young people, and we know that there are more than 60,000 marginalised young people in Finland. That is such a major problem that it simply cannot be blinded. The Committee notes that good general education and education are essential prerequisites for young people to get into employment and to live in general, but the problem is that even one-tenth of young people leaving comprehensive school fail to receive the type of writing and reading skills that enable them to continue their studies and thus enter the labour market, and we also know that the risk of exclusion is five times higher if there is no post-basic level qualification. Well, now that I am drawing this fact together a little — and I say that every year about 6,000 young people are completing primary school without writing or reading skills and the extremes are separated — so now that the government programme says that compulsory education is being increased to 18 years, I would like to see special attention being paid to those young people who have not received sufficient writing and reading skills. When this compulsory education is increased, these young people must be caught, seen where the problems are, whether there is a break in the background, whether there is an immigration background, whether there is a broken childhood for other reasons, learning difficulties, whatever. We need to get that writing and reading skills to a satisfactory level, otherwise there will be no further training opportunities, and this will increase the risk of exclusion. And then the second thing the President-in-Office has drawn attention to is this red tape. We have well-meaning ministers, a well-meaning government programme, well-meaning officials, but the problem is that there will be no such overall coordination of young people' s affairs. Cases are dealt with in OKM, STM and TEM, and if they fail, then the next steps will be the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, where they are very late. In other words, there was a need for comprehensive coordination in expert hearings. It could be OK with M.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u94	Mr President! In the Board's annual report, the Audit Committee took up four of the issues referred to above by the chairman of the Committee for a more detailed examination, and in this speech I am now addressing just one issue, namely the fight against the shadow economy, which also plays an important role for the national economy. According to a survey carried out by the Grey Economic Clearing House to the authorities, the grey economy is very widespread and has even become more widespread. On the other hand, there has also been an improvement in the scope for action and this has been influenced, among other things, by the improvement of access rights and cooperation between authorities. Cooperation has made it more effective to combat the shadow economy and to prevent the black economy from entering many sectors. However, in committee we noted that this work is still very much ongoing and that the exchange of information can still be improved, and that is why the committee expects the government to report in the context of the government's annual report on the measures taken to improve the exchange of information between the authorities in the fight against the shadow economy. President! According to experts, in the fight against the shadow economy, digital economic governance will enable real-time financial information to be used, and the Government Programme also states that companies’ financial management will move towards complete automation by introducing electronic receipt and billing. The Committee considers it important that the cash-flow systems producing digital e-receipts can be introduced as part of the reform of financial management included in the Government Programme and that the scope of use should be as broad as possible. New phenomena such as the digital world, the platform economy, organised crime and internationalisation are the main threats to the fight against the black economy. The key question is how rapidly the digital economy will enable public authorities to detect and combat new problems. The problems are related to e-commerce platforms and internationalisation, various means of payment and organised crime. The informal economy of e-commerce, with non-payment of legal fees or taxes, also has a wide range of interfaces with financial crime. These include various types of fraud involving means of payment, money laundering, identity theft, tax offences, evasion of customs duties, and accounting and counterfeiting offences. e-commerce may also involve corruption, undeclared work, smuggling and receipt trading. e-commerce may also operate completely outside the scope of taxation and other statutory obligations. The Tax Administration has assessed the tax deficit caused by various phenomena in the digital economy and concluded that the tax deficit in the digital economy would increase to around EUR 450 million within ten years if the Tax Administration was unable to develop the tools required for the taxation of the digital economy. Mr President! The effective fight against the black economy requires resources, but unfortunately resources have been reduced. For example, according to the Tax Administration, its resources in the fight against the shadow economy and other tax controls have been constantly falling. Some 28% of tax inspectors in the corporate tax unit work in the shadow economy, whose resources have been reduced by 14 person-years since the beginning of 2018. At the moment, the company tax unit's work queue to combat the shadow economy has a year's work waiting to be done. On the other hand, the number of cases of financial crimes open to the police is higher than ever before. In 2018, there were 2,508 of them and in September 2019 2783 of them. The recruitment problems of financial crime units in the Helsinki Metropolitan Police Departments, combined with high cases and increased cases over 24 months old, have made the situation worse for the units. This is a strange situation in that regard, given that the work of economic crime investigators is a productive activity. For example, the police have received criminal benefits as follows: EUR 14.7 million in 2016;EUR 15.7 millionin2017;EUR 27.4 millionin2018and in2019bythe end of September;EUR 20 million. The police have also developed a cash-dog business that has been used by cash-dogs to find cash in search of around EUR 11 million. I think this is a lot of money. The resource situation of Customs is also poor. Since 2015, Customs has not received separate appropriations to combat the shadow economy. Since 2006, the number of permanent employees has been reduced by 550. In addition, 205 people have moved elsewhere in connection with mission transfers. According to Customs, the current financial framework does not allow the necessary new control technology to be acquired, modernised or the current level of the fight against the shadow economy and tax control. In 2018 Customs recorded 1294 tax fraud offences, and between 2012 and 2018, Customs' financial crime prevention amounted to EUR 195 million. Mr President! There seems to be no change in the conditions under which public authorities operate in order to combat the shadow economy and financial crime compared to last year, and in some respects the situation seems to have deteriorated. Fortunately, additional euro-denominated contributions have also been included in the Government Programme and, of course, their impact is not yet possible at this stage. Cutting resources means adjusting the resources of the authorities and reducing the level of control. This, in turn, makes it difficult for the whole black economy to be combated by the authorities and credible cooperation between the authorities. Due to lack of resources, the quantitative level of control may decrease, the risk of capture and real-time surveillance may decrease, the share of the hidden grey economy may rise and the supervisory processes of the authorities will be prolonged. The results of recovery and recovery of the proceeds of crime may fall from the present, increasing the amount of tax debts and, at the same time, the total tax deficit. In other words, more attention should also be paid to this issue from the point of view of central government finances.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u95	Mr President! This morning, under the leadership of Vice-President Eerola, we sang in the Chamber ‘A time of thanks, passing over years, to the hooligans of men’. To prevent this from happening too quickly, I would like to raise a few points from the Sipilä regime which are relevant to this moment and to the future decision-making process. I thank the Sipilä Government for reducing the number of NEETs. NEETs are young people between the ages of 20 and 24 who have fallen outside work, education and support. At the beginning of the Government term, there were 15 per cent of them, and in 2018 the number had fallen to 11.8 per cent. In numbers, this means 14,000 young people. In particular, the situation of young men has improved since 2015, when 16.6 per cent of men were outside work and education. At the end of 2018, the figure had fallen to 11.7 per cent. The Government’s measures and strong employment developments have contributed to preventing the exclusion of young people. Thank you very much to the Government of Juha Sipilä for this work. It is good for the Marin government to continue from now on. One important measure was the permanentisation of the Ohjaamo operations. Cabins are places for all under 30-year-olds to receive free assistance and support for a wide range of things, including studies, employment, housing, health and life management. Experts support young people in the same place, from the same door, in close cooperation. The service process speeds up and becomes smoother. At the end of last year there were 60 Ohjaamos in Finland, where 600 people worked at least one day a week. This amount rose by 100 people over the past year. The services were used face-to-face for 140,000 times, and 70,000 sessions also included an important group activity. Mr President! Much remains to be done because there are too many marginalised young people and everyone is too many. Real things have been done, but they should be continued within the framework of the Government Programme. The focus must change in the preventive direction. In order to succeed in this, the overall responsibility for the well-being of young people and its development must be addressed to one body, as the chairman of the committee, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, said in his comprehensive presentation. The various sectors must be brought into co-operation and work together. The measures must be long-term. Youth work organised by organisations and municipalities is such long-term work. These good practices should be strengthened. More permanent activities and funding must be made available for project-type activities. In other words, the transition from remedial action to preventive action is increasing. This should be taken into account when we finally bring the reform of our social and health services system to the finish line. In this context, good practices should be disseminated, refined and systematically tested in the context of the reform. Mr President! We must tackle the problems of children and young people at a sufficiently early stage before they get too big. Mental health services must be adequately transferred to basic services. In its report, the Audit Committee stressed that we should pay attention to the availability, accessibility and timeliness of services for young people. It is great that family centres and their activities have been developed as part of the programme for the change of child and family services in each province. Family centres reduce the fragmentation of services and improve access to services. According to experts, the needs of young people should be taken more into account. If a young person has reduced ability to function, poor literacy, weak networks and limited knowledge, he or she cannot find help for the sources. Services for children and young people must be brought into the everyday environment of children, for example in connection with schools. Mr President! The Government Programme contains good records to respond to the challenges raised by the Annual Report under discussion. Preventing the exclusion of young people is a complex, deplorable problem that involves many different kinds of issues. That is why it must be resolved as cooperation between many ministries, as has already been said. By extending compulsory education, we strive to catch all young people in the joint phase. Of course, specific measures are also needed for Rinna, to improve student care, to invest in basic skills, to support families and to develop the entire school path.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u96	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The report of the Audit Committee is being discussed in the Board of Directors' Annual Report 2018. This committee's report takes a position on very important and good things. I know, the chairman of the committee, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, that you are doing a great deal for young people, and it is great that there is a comment here on the exclusion of young people. It is an eternal matter for us in Finland, and it is also an eternal problem. In what way could we do so that no young person would be excluded? It is rather sad to read such a phrase in this report: ‘At the national level, an expert-consultational opinion does not show that science is accurate, why young people are becoming more and more vulnerable to the number of cargo protection clients and all the factors that affect If only we could find the stones of the wise that are the reasons why more and more young people are drifting into child welfare clients and we cannot find answers. It is very important, as this report says, that there should be easy access to services for children and young people in their everyday environment, i.e. right there, at their own school, after the end of school hours and school days, i.e. evenings and the times when schoolchildren, students can actually go there to different receptions. We are also talking about resources. We need school psychologists, curators, listening adults. In Espoo, for example, the True Finns have presented psychiatric nurses, local nurses to the school world, as earrings to the kindergarten world, because it is important for the youth to talk to others, not necessarily the teacher, but also the young and those adult ears. Mr President! I would also like to raise a few points about this report by the Board of Directors itself in 2018. After all, we are looking back, back to the past, and it is precisely at that time, September, 27 September, that our opinion from the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which we issued in this regard, has been dated. At the same time, we also heard news about informal care and the key project. In other words, according to the Government's annual report, the main project of home care and informal care for elderly people was aimed, among other things, at providing more equal, better coordinated and cost-absorbing services for elderly family carers. It was unfortunate that, in September, we learned that the money promised for informal care was, in fact, going elsewhere in many municipalities. So that's the money that didn't show up at the house in the end of the day. When the THL survey was conducted, it revealed that the money was misallocated. Half of the municipalities replied that the appropriation had no effect or had not been directed to informal care. It was approximately EUR 300 million, which municipalities received in 2016-2018 for the development of informal care. 23 municipalities reported that the extra money went into informal care, and 105 municipalities responded overall. These are right there in September, on the same date. Among other news were the Evening Sanomat, and the carer said: “20years I have been in non-care. Nothing has ever gone to the finish line. Nothing. Nothing changes.” This, too, is inconsolable to hear that this is what family carers feel. Should the earmarked money be returned so that when the municipality is given money for, say, informal care, it would actually go there? Of course, it is easy to achieve the desired reduction of cost growth when there are no other options available. Savings have been claimed from the costs, for example, through informal care. In recent times, news reports of very tragic tragedies around the subject show us that it is not necessarily a success. No one denies that it would be cost-effective for a 90-year-old to work as a family carer for his spouse, but how right is it actually? Let's talk about that ethics thing. Can any of the elderly, even from that exuberant and self - employed, truly look forward to the ability to provide balanced and very demanding 24 - hour care? This situation is not corrected by the customer and service guidance mentioned in the Annual Report, but by providing real, concrete assistance for the everyday lives of elderly carers at home. I'm sure we all agree on this. It is unfortunate that the objective of equal opportunities for the main project is not being achieved in this respect. The availability of assistance depends largely on where in Finland and in which municipality the family care takes place. Local authorities have different resources and it is almost impossible to obtain the necessary assistance on an equal footing at the moment. The annual report states that the measures taken by the project have brought about the right development, but the overall achievement of the objective is a longer process and is influenced by a number of actions. It is good that this has been mentioned there in the report, and it is important that we hear it and then take things forward in perhaps a better way. But how will equality and better coordination mentioned in the key project be taken into account in the future? The reason I am talking about this government report in relation to this key project is precisely because in September we heard that family carers feel that they have not seen this money in connection with the development of informal care. So it's important that we don't forget them. If, instead of institutional care, the emphasis on home care is also intended to curb the increase in costs in the future, what are the efforts and measures that will enable this to happen without the elderly family carers themselves becoming exhausted and burn out in doing this very important and hard work? It is a work that is their last service to the family as well as to society. We look back at the 2018 report, but make sure that in the future the reports will be that these actions have had effectiveness and significance and we actually see those family carers. The previous speech also took a position on the reform of social security. The report by the Audit Committee does not take a position on this now, but it is very important that we also get answers from the government as to how the social reform will proceed. That is what happened last season, 8 March 2019 The Council of Presidents stated that due to the resignation of the Sipilä Government, Parliament was not in a position to deal with regional and social reform. So in March 2019, they were no longer legal projects. It would now be important for us to hear what is coming, as well as about young people, the exclusion of young people, the guarantee of therapy and the way in which we ensure that no young people will be excluded in the future. We owe it to the young people. This report then raises this issue of the appointment of a contact person for a young person. It's very important. It has been mentioned here that young immigrants face the greatest risk of exclusion. I would see that all young people, if they are not heard or seen, are at risk of exclusion there at school, as well as the risk of bullying and dropping out of school in a way. There's been a lot of reading here. These are reasons that also affect school leaving. I myself am very concerned about the growth of the electronic world and digital books and that everything is happening electronically, because young people have been in contact and told that they would also like to be able to read ordinary books, that not everything would be there on a computer. Now all the exams, the matriculation exams,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u97	Mr President! Thank you to the Committee on Audit for emphasising indoor air problems in its own report and opinion. According to the THL surveys, more than 100,000 people of working age have experienced symptoms connected to the interior of the home during the last year. The indoor air makes people sick both in homes and in public buildings. The Audit Committee prepared a comprehensive report on moisture and mould problems in buildings in 2013. For example, it was estimated that between 62000 and 94,000 comprehensive school children and between 12000 and 18,000 upper secondary school children are exposed to moisture and mould damage on a daily basis. According to a study published in 2002 by the Audit Committee on moisture and mould problems in buildings, the cost of significant damage to the health of moisture and moulds is approximately EUR 450 million per year. Since the 1990s, previous Finnish governments have implemented various projects and programmes related to indoor air problems. Those who are sick from the indoor air are in serious trouble, as concrete political action sometimes progresses agonizingly slowly. The decisions must be based on the information studied and carefully planned, but the problems should not be swept under the carpet. The distress of people suffering from indoor air problems is real and help must be available. According to the Constitution, public authorities must strive to safeguard everyone's right to a healthy environment. Now the situation is that many sufferers do not get the help they need from health care, but feel that they are indisputable and abused. There are still health professionals who minimize the problems of a person who is sick from the indoor air. We do not know precisely enough why and how mold and moisture damage make people sick. That is why we need to invest more in multidisciplinary research. Mr President! The Government’s way of solving these problems is already a 10-year Healthy Spaces 2028 project launched by the previous government. The project is important, but its level of ambition needs to be raised, as recorded in the Government Programme. The Audit Committee requires the Board of Directors to report on the concrete results of the Healthy Facilities 2028 project and to assess the effectiveness of the project in the future in the context of the Board's annual report. This will help to highlight the importance of the project and thank the committee for this. As the chairman of the committee said, the Audit Committee considers that there is too little budget and human resources allocated to the Health Facility project in relation to the objectives set. The project has a budget of EUR 1.5 million per year, and it is therefore necessary to monitor the adequacy of the money and, if necessary, to prepare for additional funding. The chairman of the Audit Committee also stated that municipalities would also need additional support in solving indoor air problems. The Association of Local and Regional Authorities has estimated that the need for additional funding would be between EUR 3.5 million and EUR 4.5 million per year. We municipal politicians, if any, know the pressure the municipalities are under to repair indoor-air schools, day care centres and health centres. Espoo alone invests nearly EUR 1 billion in schools and day-care centres in ten years, a large part of which is to repair and replace indoor air problems with a new healthy building. The state must also assume its responsibility for healthy and safe working spaces. For example, there are serious indoor air problems in part of the premises of the state Senate buildings of the police and the Border Guard. Twenty per cent of police personnel have worked in premises classified as indoors, comprising a total of 11. There are 22 indoor air spots in the border guard’s premises, half of which had to be transferred. Operating expenditure does not even allow acute renovations. Defining the correction of indoor air problems will cost the public administration a great deal of money. Cheapest progress will be made in improving the quality and control of construction and in specifying its responsibilities and addressing problems without delay. Mr President! When we talk about indoor air problems, we cannot ignore the question of the quality of construction. According to the Government Programme, the quality and control of construction will be improved and responsibilities clarified, especially in the context of the ongoing comprehensive reform of the Land Use and Building Act. The law must therefore contain clear articles on who is responsible for building errors and for repairing them. When developing solutions for more energy-efficient construction, account must also be taken of their impact on the indoor air. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the important records of the Government Programme to help people with indoor air problems. In accordance with the Government Programme, we will find out what kind of help and support the people who are trapped in the mold trap need. Among other things, how could the state support the correction of indoor air problems in buildings and the construction of clean housing for those who are sick from indoor air? It will also be examined whether there is a need to strengthen the legal protection of a householder with indoor air problems by means of binding legislation, as well as the need and marginal conditions for the renovation of residential buildings owned by private individuals. This was the kind of aid in the past, but it has been removed. This entity will be promoted through the Government's investigation and research activities through a separate VN TEAS project called "Helping and Support for Indoor Air Problems". The reports are due to be completed by May 2021. It is therefore important that we find sustainable solutions during this term of government, both for improving the quality of construction and for helping people with indoor air problems. This requires a broad partnership and cooperation between the various bodies, and it is important that the Audit Committee contributes to monitoring the progress of this work.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u98	Mr President! The committee's proposals mainly focus on the problems of moisture and mould in buildings. They state that the quality of construction and the use of buildings must be clearly improved and controls and responsibilities clarified. It is also considered that we need to find out what kind of help and support those who are trapped in a mold trap need. The Government will then be required to react and report on the concrete results of the Healthy Spaces 2028 project and on the effectiveness of the project in the context of its annual reports. This large and cross-administrative Healthy Spaces 2028 project, launched by Prime Minister Juha Sipilä's Government in 2018, is important, and the main objective of that ten-year project is to restore public buildings. For one reason or another, indoor air problems seem to be rather concentrated on public buildings. The treatment and rehabilitation of all indoor air symptomatic patients is required to be intensified. The Committee considers it necessary to improve the knowledge and training of indoor air issues, including building physics and education, in order to provide sufficient expertise in this area. According to the committee, the lack of experts in this field is evident, for example, in the Ministry of the Environment, where at times there have been no experts specialised in indoor air problems and there have been major difficulties in finding qualified experts. In this context, it should be noted that Parliament's Finance Committee, in its budget report today, added EUR 300000 to the Ministry of Education and Culture for the operation of the Turku University's ROSSI indoor air unit and for the research project on indoor air diseases. The sum is small, but this inside-air unit of TROSSI is in itself significant. It is run from the University of Turku, but it is a national project, and in that sense it was important that it was taken into account at this stage in the budget as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u99	Mr President! Once again, the Audit Committee has done a good and valuable job. Thank you to the chairman and vice-president and to the committee as a whole — great work. I myself very much like the Committee on Audit because there is this spirit which was described: not to vote, but to look at things in a broad and far-reaching way into the future. Very often, the issues that the Audit Committee has examined and in which it has done systematic work have been very heavy over the parliamentary term. It is very important, very important, and that is why the Audit Committee is a very important committee in this Parliament. I think it is a good thing that this report specifically highlights the themes that have been the main themes. Good speeches have been made here on this issue of indoor air, and I remember when the Audit Committee adopted a comprehensive programme of measures specifically to combat indoor air problems. I became the President, the Minister, who was responsible for housing and, at the same time, for coordinating this programme as a whole, even though there were measures in several ministries. I always remember when I went to the field to talk about how enthusiastic I told you that it is great that the Audit Committee in Parliament has given us these greetings to the ministry, that is, they have been taken seriously, and it is good that this has now been kept to a significant level. For example, the theme of the grey economy — it is still incredibly important today. We all know how important it is for us to have tax revenue so that we can maintain our welfare society, finance its services, education, all this. It is a good thing that the committee continues to say its own weighty words on this issue. Among other things, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen spoke very well about the content in this regard, and I think that is very important. By the way, in the next room, in the tax section, we have just gathered a couple of international tax packages that prevent, among other things, aggressive tax planning and, in some ways, this same problem, i.e. that tax revenue could be sufficient here in Finland to secure our tax base. I would like to say a few more words about this youth perspective. It was valuable that the committee again stressed and addressed the issue of young people in its report. All in all, it is very important that we maintain this issue and that our young people have a good future. For example, the President-in-Office presented, among other things, the issue of prevention, about which it is written that problems should be prevented better than today, and that is why I see it as very important for example,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u100	Mr President! For my part, I would also like to thank the Audit Committee for that good work, that good report, which we have at hand in connection with this Board's annual report 2018. Indeed, the Committee on Audit has raised a number of important points here, and I myself would like to address just a few. In fact, point 6: These opinions of the Special Committees, which refer to that government's annual report, are relatively brief statements and only mention statements that are maintained and can already be deleted. There are also relatively old statements, I think they are the oldest from 2004 to 2005, and I myself would like to see them taken into consideration, and that they could be taken forward so that they would not always be renewed here from year to year. I think that would be important. Then there are two other points I would like to stress — of course, this fight against the shadow economy. This is always on our agenda from year to year, and I sincerely hope that there will be resources for it in every sector, every administrative sector. It has already been carried forward in many areas, for example, by a good example, the construction sector, which has also generated revenue for the state through it, but has also been able to combat the shadow economy. But then there is this big issue, which has also been highlighted in these previous speeches, which is precisely that the quality of construction and use of buildings must be clearly improved, not only in terms of controls, but also in terms of responsibilities. I personally hope that further attention will be paid to this. Many years of attention have already been paid to this, but the fact is that construction is the sum of many things. It consists of planning, materials, building, building technology, and also the maintenance of the building, which should be given more time and attention. Those old-time janitors were good, and then they kept the schools in the same condition. But then there is the big thing about these indoor air problems that have come to light in recent years. It is also important to pay attention to those who have already been exposed or become ill because of these indoor air problems so that they can be properly treated and their quality of life can also be improved. This project, Healthy Spaces 2028, has also been specifically mentioned here, and I really hope that this will be a major and important one.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u101	Mr President! Thank you also, on my behalf, to the Audit Committee. I listened carefully to this President's presentation of this report. It is always good to remember that when you look back, we in this Chamber also look back because we know how to learn as legislators and then when we make money here through the state budget. I would like to raise two points. The first relates to the problems of moisture and mould in buildings. During the last parliamentary term, during the government term, I was allowed to be the Minister responsible for the Senate, and I can say that it was sometimes rather painful when the informal information I received from the Senate was very much in conflict with the official information I received. Then I would like to say what the Senate has done, which I do not think is mentioned in this report, and I do not think the Senate was an expert in your committee either. I draw attention to the fact that a year ago, when the Senate drew up a strategy for itself for the years 2019 to 2022, it set itself a strategic priority: ‘By publishing a report on the internal circumstances of tolerance. “ I think that is very important, because the Senate is responsible for the mass of property on our side of the state, which is very large, and you representatives who are here know a lot of public government buildings that have had a lot of moisture and mold problems and have caused health problems for workers. I personally think in this way that we in this House, and in particular the Committee of Auditors, which has also drawn attention to the work of the Senate over the years, should be able to look at this strategic objective of the Senate, how it will actually be achieved, that it will not just remain a beautiful record, that there is zero tolerance for internal circumstances problems, but precisely so that they can be found. At least I intend to do so in these years to observe what it means in practice. Well, then, the second issue that is on the agenda here is the issue of the exclusion of young people. All in all, this part is very worthy of this and, as has already been pointed out in previous speeches, it is true with regard to the authorities that, even if we are all aware of the need to cooperate in the best interests of the child — I myself have a lot of experience of it, even in the social and health administration and then in the civil administration — it does not mean to separate or feel that we are talking about it in the interest of the same child. Among other things, I have been with Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto at the same time in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which dealt with student care, and when we heard experts, I really wondered whether this was the same child. This also relates to the opinion of the Audit Committee on the exchange of information between authorities. This section on the exclusion of young people has highlighted a number of important issues, including this difficulty in financing projects and projects. It is difficult to build long-term work for children and young people. I think it is important that this Lappe project, which is also mentioned in this report, namely the programme for the conversion of children and families, should continue during this parliamentary term. It has a budget of EUR 10 million for the coming year and now EUR 23 million for the three years. It must also, of course, ensure that it is not a separate job, but that it commits itself to the counselling centres, family centres and also to this future social centre. Well, then there's the matter of mental health and also substance abuse services here. I have the impression that if we look at our municipalities, we have very serious problems in mental health services, substance abuse services and child welfare, and these many times are also linked to the same families. That is why it is not possible to raise this issue too much and then to raise the solutions to this issue. Personally, I believe that now in this government programme, which we will be having a communication debate next Monday in this Chamber, there are the right positions to facilitate access to mental health services, a mental health strategy which was already in the consultation this autumn, and this future centre for health care, which will reduce the threshold for access to mental health services, especially for children and young people. This is also part of the debate on the therapeutic guarantee, as next February the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will hold a public consultation on this and we will be able to move forward on that. The sum summarum, I consider this report to be very commendable, but the only thing I wondered and wondered about was whether there was a particular reason why you had not heard the Senate, the administrator of the state buildings. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u102	Mr President! As a member of the Audit Committee, I welcome the collective spirit that has been in the process of dealing with, for example, the grey economy, the exclusion of young people or these unpleasant indoor air issues, indoor air problems in structures. I would therefore like to thank the chairman of the committee, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, for his good chairmanship. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u103	Mr President! In Finland, the cost of indoor air problems is measured in billions, and many municipalities are in crisis with their sick buildings. Fortunately, however, there has been an intervention on the part of the government, which is a good thing. Of course, it is difficult for those who are experiencing indoor air symptoms to promise a rapid change, but this problem can eventually be overcome. Of course, in solving indoor air problems, we talk about years. Of course, it takes time for research, financing, finding replacement facilities and repairs. However, it is not possible for symptomatic people to wait, therefore quick, quick and smart measures must be taken immediately. Indoor air problems are one of the biggest challenges facing Finland and a broad consensus and comprehensive action is needed to overcome them immediately. Human health and well-being must be the top priority in all decision-making. Many speakers have also raised concerns about a serious problem, which is of course a debate on the exclusion of young people. At this point, I am pleased that the government is on the verge of taking the very preventive measures that prevent the development of social exclusion among young people. These are measures such as early childhood education, which restores the subjective right to early childhood education in full and reduces group sizes. There are also measures in the area of basic education, multi-professional cooperation, student care, which will, of course, contribute to the fight against the exclusion of young people. The extension of compulsory education is, of course, one way to seize and catch young people whose flight is halting in relation to comprehensive school, but the extension of compulsory education must be done in parallel with measures that also strengthen early childhood education and strengthen basic education. Of course, one of the ways that the government points out is to make leisure activities possible for everyone, i.e. this model of Iceland in Finland. We all know that many hobbies are already difficult financially for many families, and this is where the possibility of such activities for each child also affects it,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u104	Mr President! I wanted to come back to the toilet again to say a few words about the exclusion of young people, which I think is one of the most serious problems in our society at the moment. We do not really know how to calculate the budget when we make alternative costs, because I claim that the social costs of social exclusion for young people are so high that investing in prevention would bring considerable savings to society in the longer term. In the opinion of the Audit Committee, the major problem in preventing and combating the exclusion of children and young people is that there is currently no overall responsibility for the well-being and promotion of young people. Children's and young people's and families' affairs are handled in a sector-specific way in the administration of both the state and municipalities. When responsibility is shared, it can happen that no one has an overall picture and responsibility for the situation of a child or young person or for the need for help. A child and young person and his or her family may be involved in several services and face a large number of professionals, but they still do not need the help they need. Another important observation in the Committee of Experts was that preventive action is very poorly organised in many places. In the 21st century, a number of changes have been made to shift the focus from remedial action in the services of children and young people to preventive support, but many experts have nevertheless told us that children's and young people's problems cannot be tackled at an early stage, but that the problems will be too great in the event of delays in assistance. When basic services cannot provide sufficient support and if access to specific services takes a long time, problems will get worse and more cumulative. And the focus of mental health services, for example, has not been sufficiently shifted to basic services. I find it worrying that the expert consultation highlighted that mental disorders are one of the most common health problems of schoolchildren and young adults at the moment and that about 25% of young people suffer from mental disorders at some point in time. According to the division of work in primary and special care, the treatment of mild mental disorders should be at the basic level, but when the service system is fragmented and the mental health services of young people and children are then placed in health care, education, social care and many other areas, they do not serve the child and young people because of their fragmentation. Children and young people do not get enough help for their mental health problems at the basic level, and that means that they are burdened with special care, and we all understand that it is also much more expensive for society. The promotion of the mental health of children and young people, the prevention of disorders and the overall management of them are not responsible and is not led by anyone. It was stressed by almost all the experts we have heard that no one is taking overall responsibility for the situation of children and young people at the moment, and the committee therefore considers it essential that mental health services for children and young people be made work at a basic and low threshold, so that problems can be tackled earlier and then special care is not burdened to the present extent. In 2017, the Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities investigated the availability of services for children who are customers of child protection. For all those involved in the survey, the availability of health research and services was reduced compared to the previous one. The most significant deterioration had occurred in the availability of mental health services needed by children. Missing mental health services have been replaced by taking a child into foster care — that is, one in three municipalities has placed children in foster care because the municipality does not have sufficient mental health services. It is an inconceivable trend that child welfare is the way in which children and young people are directed when the basic services in the mental health service are not in order. It can't be like this. Finally, Mr President, the importance of young people's inclusion and the shortcomings that young people are currently experiencing in the committee's expert hearings were strongly highlighted. In the service experience of young people, the experiences of nullification and understatement and exclusion and exclusion are often repeated. This is worrying in the Committee's view, as negative experiences undermine young people's confidence in services and access to assistance and raise the threshold for access to support. Thus, young people feel that they are not taken seriously and their own account of the situation is invalidated. The committee also draws attention to the fact that a young person should be confronted and treated as an individual. For example, the young person's wishes for further studies should be listened to and supported, and his or her chances of progress in studies should not be classified, for example, on the grounds that he or she has been the subject of child protection measures. At best, participation is a young person’s ability to influence his or her own goals and his or her being taken seriously. This exclusion of young people is such a serious problem in society at the moment that the committee decided to launch its own research project on this subject and we will therefore come back to this issue in the years to come and in the future. I think it is excellent that we can do a little more research into the causes of this phenomenon and also what we could do about this serious issue. But to the very end, Mr President, I too would like to thank the committee for doing an excellent job together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u105	Mr President! Now that the debate went into indoor air diseases and indoor air problems, I can’t help but take a stand on it. After all, it is incomprehensible what is happening in today's construction and how new or year or two-year-old buildings have problems. There is moisture or not necessarily mold, but something that causes indoor air problems for people. In my own municipality of residence, we have had a health centre built and then the staff has been ill. I wonder if the building was two years old or a year old when these problems began to arise. In some way, this debate should raise the issue of why these are emphasised — at least, in my opinion, these problems with moisture — very often in public buildings. Is it because of construction, the mistakes of construction, or because of too short a period of drought? Now that we are considering this, I would also like to mention the fact that there is a lot of wood and timber expertise in Finland, so that we can go to them. [Esko Kiviranta’s interlude] Air conditioning is such a thing that has been added to the buildings afterwards, and it may have caused problems. Here in Parliament, I heard in a committee such a parable that there were school caretakers who stopped air conditioning for weekends and summers, and then they were handed out one year's janitor pins when they made savings. They must have caused more damage than savings.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u106	Then there is the chairman of the audit committee, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u107	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you all here for taking your time to discuss this most important work of this autumn's Audit Committee, namely our report on the Board's report for 2018. Of course, if we were just looking back, we would freeze into a pillar of salt, but we also look forward, so that we are in motion and want to do things better, which is what we have just done in making these statements. And I think it is very valuable that not only the members of the Audit Committee have participated in this debate but also the representatives of the other committees. In other words, it is not only in the prevention of social exclusion for young people but also in politics that it is important not only to look at the sector itself but to work together and to look beyond the sectoral boundaries. This will bring about a comprehensive and effective policy. It is our job in the Audit Committee to ensure that the government implements the will of the Parliament as to how things should be done and that taxpayers' money is used in a meaningful way. That is what we have tried to do in our report. In response to why we have not heard the Senate, for example, I can tell you that our work has been quite extensive. There were very many of these existing statements and we have heard quite a lot of experts, but we have not been able to hear quite everyone we would have liked to hear in this connection. But our work will therefore continue with regard to these priorities, in which these statements will remain in force. Our committee, for example, is now taking up a number of key issues that we have already raised here, such as this exclusion of young people, where we could do much better, and that will indeed be one of the priorities, as Vice-President Mäkisalo-Ropponen mentioned. We have also started our own study on how we could improve the quality of legislation, the quality of regulatory drafting, for example by making impact assessments better and better quality and more systematic, and that includes, among other things, how we can improve human impact assessment, child impact assessment and environmental impact assessment, and so on, which are the reasons why these impact assessments vary in quality or are carried out occasionally? Even now, our expert consultations have shown that this is a very necessary report,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u108	Mr President! I will not make a long speech, but because of the representative Mäenpää sent his greetings to the government and wished for more wood construction, so I would like to say that next year's budget includes more funds and resources specifically earmarked for wood construction and the current government, like the previous government, wants to increase wood construction specifically so that the Finnish natural product, wood, is used more. Likewise, of course, indoor air problems are a very big problem in Finland. There are very many of them in public buildings — in schools, in many properties, in municipal buildings and in government buildings — but there are also them in private buildings. Representative The hilltop also brought up the ventilation. In recent years, house technology has developed in huge strides, and it has also led to the fact that we property users actually know how to use it in the right way. It's also a big question. But I would also like to say that the previous government and the previous government have also made legislative changes in such a way that gravity ventilation is still possible, and it is important that it can also be used, and, especially in wooden buildings, gravity ventilation is, when properly designed and properly used, still a very effective alternative. But all in all, I hope that these indoor air problems will continue to be addressed in the future and also in that training, so that there will also be experts who are able to provide advice and guidance for the use of buildings.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u109	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 18/2019 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — Chairman of the committee, Mr Vehviläinen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u110	Mr President! Report 18/2019 by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on these Parliaments will discuss the Government's proposal to amend the entry into force of the Act amending the Child Welfare Act and the Act amending the Child Welfare Act. The laws are intended to enter into force at the beginning of next year. The aim of the proposal is to correct the provisions of the Child Welfare Act to reflect the amendments already adopted by Parliament. The new law on judicial proceedings in administrative matters, i.e. the Administrative Process Act, will enter into force on 1 January 1920. The proposal proposes that the references in the Child Welfare Act to the repealed Administrative Law should be corrected as references to the new Law on judicial proceedings in administrative matters. The appeal against the administrative court decision to the Supreme Administrative Court would also become subject to appeal in matters governed by the Child Welfare Act. In addition, the proposal proposes that the municipality’s obligation to provide after-care until the young person entitled to after-care reaches the age of 25 would apply to children and young people subject to after-care on the date of entry into force of the amendment to the Child Welfare Act. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has received an opinion from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on a government proposal. I shall now go over the comments made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and its consequences for the content of the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs states that there are substantive and procedural features relating to the interests of the child, particularly in matters of custody and foster care, which in themselves advocate the speed of bringing matters of urgency and custody into force. However, according to the opinion, it is essential for access to legal certainty that the right to appeal does not constitute a prohibition of appeal. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses that the Supreme Administrative Court is required by law to grant an appeal permit if one of the grounds for granting an appeal is at hand. It is not relevant, according to the opinion, for the child welfare authority to review the situation of the family sufficiently frequently during the period of custody in order to determine whether the conditions of the family have improved and whether there are conditions for the cessation of custody and the reunification of the family. According to the Administrative Process Act, the basis for granting a permit to appeal may be not only the basis for a preliminary decision and the manifest error in the case, but also any other serious reason for granting a permit to appeal. Such a strong reason may, inter alia, be of particular importance to the appellant’s legal protection. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers it clear that the issue of custody and foster care is, in principle, of such importance for the child and his or her family. However, in the view of the Constitutional Committee, the regulation of Article 92 of the Child Welfare Act must be made more explicit by reducing the threshold for the granting of a permit to appeal, so that the special need for legal protection in matters of custody and foster care also becomes legally guaranteed in the event of a judicial review where the Supreme Administrative Court acts as the first step in the process of appeal. According to the opinion, regulation must be drafted in such a way that only manifestly unfounded and comparable appeals are settled in the event of refusal of an appeal application. According to the opinion, such a change is a prerequisite for the first draft law to be examined in the order in which the ordinary law is adopted. According to a report received by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, no provisions have been adopted so far that the general conditions for granting a permit to appeal have been relaxed. In addition, the general criteria for granting a permit to appeal are written in a positive form as conditions, one of which leads to the granting of a permit to appeal. The committee considers it justified, as a whole, that the threshold for granting authorisation to appeal in matters of custody and foster care, as required by the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, should be carefully assessed and, if necessary, submitted to Parliament by the government. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health proposes that Article 92 of the Child Welfare Act: amend in this context so that the right of appeal in matters of custody and custody remains unchanged for the time being and the right to appeal is not required in those cases where the Supreme Administrative Court acts as the first step in the appeal process. However, authorisation to appeal would be required in other cases within the meaning of Article 92(1) of the draft law. The Constitutional Committee pays serious attention to the need for the Government to carefully evaluate the decision-making system under the Child Welfare Act and to take any necessary legislative action. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs believes that the functioning of the complaint authorisation system needs to be monitored, particularly in this area. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health agrees with the views of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the importance of monitoring and the need for a comprehensive review of the decision-making system for child protection. The committee considers it important that the evaluation of the decision-making system as set out in the government proposal should begin as soon as possible. The committee proposes a statement on this subject, which reads as follows: ‘The government requires that the assessment of the need for reform of the decision-making and appeal system for child protection be carried out by the Board of Directors, The Committee considers it important to ensure sufficient resources for administrative rights and municipal child protection work, which also reduces the need for redress. As a result of the draft law adopted by Parliament, the age limit for after-care increases from the beginning of 2020 to the age of 25. In view of the increase in the age limit, it is proposed to amend the definition of young people in the Child Welfare Act, the regulation of independence funds and the transitional provision of the age limit for aftercare. With the transitional provision, the extension of the right to post-care does not apply to young people whose right to post-care has expired before the entry into force of the Act on 1 January 1920. The committee considers it appropriate to revise the Child Welfare Act in such a way that the institution responsible for social welfare is obliged to pay the young person the independence funds at the end of the post-care period, i.e. at the latest when he turns 25. However, the committee draws attention to the wide discretion of the municipal child welfare authority with regard to the date of payment of the independence funds. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs states that it has, on various occasions, led to the requirement for the provisions on equality in the Constitution that distinctions must not be arbitrary or excessive. In the Committee's view, the whole of the existing regulation and the proposed regulation does not, in itself, go against the requirement of proportionality, but has considered a better compatible regulatory solution with Article 6 of the Constitution, which would not be based on an absolute and precise exclusion of age groups. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health notes that the transitional provision proposed in the proposal is not based on the age of a child or young person, but on the right to aftercare and its validity. As a result of the transitional provision, the right to aftercare does not extend retroactively to children and young people whose right to aftercare has already expired before the entry into force of the Act and who have already moved away from the responsibility of child protection. Young adults belonging to this group have access to all services and support systems related to social and health care, income security, housing support, education and employment in the municipality. The committee does not consider it justified that young adults who have been transferred from the responsibility of child protection to other services should be transferred back to the responsibility of child protection. However, the committee stresses that the municipality must continue to support the child and young people in their independence, even though they no longer have a subjective right to post-care. According to the survey, the retroactive enforcement of the right to after-care, for example, is that all young people aged 18 to 21 who have been entitled to post-care during 2016 to 2019 would require additional funding of approximately EUR 12 million for the municipalities’ central government contributions. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health agrees with the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the need to provide adequate resources for the services of young people and young adults not covered by aftercare as described in the government proposal. In addition, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers it important that post-care be developed in terms of content so as to prevent marginalisation more effectively and to support young people's access to education, training and access to the labour market. To sum up, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will present to Parliament for approval the proposal for the second legislative act contained in the Government proposal as amended in the report, and a statement as I have already presented it. The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u111	Mr President! Child welfare and its support measures support children and young people who are unable to cope on their own or with their families, or if the family’s resources for safe childhood, youth or adulthood are not enough. The extension of child welfare after-care to the age of 20 is a significant change in the long-term care of young adults in need of assistance. At the same time, it is important to ensure that young adults also have access to other social care services. At best, our social and health care service system can be contactive and debateable, and that is what it should strive for. It is essential to ensure a comprehensive care chain and livelihood and housing. Supporting the adulthood of young people who have fallen for reasons of their path, securing and enabling education is a responsibility that we must take care of. As a resident of this country, we know better than well what education for a child and a young person means, and how much it can have for their future. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health therefore stresses in its report that the municipality must continue to support the child and young people in their independence, even if they do not have a subjective right to post-care. This government proposal will help to make it possible to expand support for young people in adulthood, while at the same time ensuring that they are able to grow up safely.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u112	Mr President! Not all of us enter adulthood on the same basis. Not all of us have a safety net to guide and encourage adulthood in front of a new one. However, independence is an important stage in life, influenced by events, situations and circumstances that have grown. It is extremely important for young people in whose lives child welfare has been a part of life to have adequate support from our system on the eve of adulthood and early adulthood. After all, much of these young people have been clients of child welfare because they have not had an able, safe or caring adult in their lives. With the aftercare service, these young people are not left alone in child welfare as they grow up. It is in the interests of all of us and of society as a whole that every young person gets the best possible support to build his/her own life, to study or work, to understand his/her rights and obligations, to find his/her own home and a secure social network around him/her — to stick to our society. The need for such support does not automatically end at the age of 21, as the right to post-care has so far ended. For many young people, the end of support too early has seemed to be rejection, leaving alone. This legislative amendment, which will ensure the right to post-care services up to the age of 25, is extremely important and will ensure a better transition from youth to adulthood. Every young person has the right to grow up and become independent at his own pace. It also sends an important message to young people that they are cared for and that there is a person who helps and cares for them when they need help.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u113	Mr President! I would also like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health for the clear presentation of the report. The primary responsibility for raising children always lies with the parents. Unfortunately, however, this is not always possible. In such cases, society must ensure that adequate and long-term assistance extends far enough. I think that is also the essence of this proposal. This proposal is also in line with the Government Programme entries: ‘Development of cargo after-sales maintenance. Provide sufficient support for young people on the way to adulthood.” This change may also mean an increase in the cost level for municipalities, especially in the early stages. Obviously there is no precise estimate of the additional costs, but this should, of course, be explained and taken into account for the sake of the municipalities. At this point, President, it is also good and natural to raise the issue of child protection in general and the welfare of children, young people and families. The central view is that preventive support for children and families needs to be improved. For example, the Lappe project, which was launched during the last parliamentary term and which will continue during this parliamentary term, will help to develop the services of children and families and gather them under a single roof, making them more accessible to families. This means that the welfare of children, especially children, young people and families, is essentially and above all preventive. By far the most effective way of doing so is to keep the Finnish education and training system both at the level and at the quality level. So every child and young person is confronted in schools, and the role of teachers, in particular, together with homes and parents, is extremely crucial.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u114	Mr President! In the previous paragraph, referring to Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto's comment that the Audit Committee has taken as its own project an assessment of the quality of the impact of legislative work, we are considering, for example, the role of the Legislative Evaluation Council and how these opinions of the Evaluation Council would have a better impact on the quality of legislation, so that they would come to the point where any errors in legislation could still be corrected. This is why I am very pleased that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health took seriously the opinion of the Legislative Evaluation Council, which stated that the Government's proposal did not adequately address the effects of the reform from the point of view of the parties' access to justice, perceived fairness and fundamental rights. I am referring here, for example, to this right of appeal, which was also mentioned by the chairman of the committee in his own presentation. Asking the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for an opinion was a very good and necessary matter, and the comments from it are very important. It is excellent that the committee made this statement on this issue, because it is absolutely necessary to follow up the matter at the moment. We really need to think about whether we really need bigger changes in this area, but good at this point in time.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-12-12-ps-81.u115	Mr President! Here Mr Kivisaari raised these costs, and I would like to say that next year's budget, the state contribution of the municipalities, has been allocated EUR 12 million for this aftercare. In other words, in accordance with our government programme, if the municipalities have new tasks, they will have a full state contribution, which means that funding has been provided. Then, perhaps on this point, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen's speech just now, I can say that this was not an easy matter when this opinion of the Constitutional Committee came at a rather late stage and we had to examine it quite quickly, together with experts from the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Supreme Administrative Court. Then, on the basis of the reports, we decided unanimously in one committee that it would probably be the wisest and most certain in this case that we would not try to resolve quickly how this would be written, that this threshold of appeal would be reduced. A more secure way of doing this would be to avoid having to do this at the moment through a permit, but to appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court directly. I think in that way that the government should not do it too quickly, but there is one possibility that this correction will be made when the child protection law is fully reformed. But it's not in our hands. It's in the government's hands to see what the right place is. But it really requires careful consideration as to how this is to be resolved.
