ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would now ask those Members who wish to put a question to the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u2	The first question is asked by the Socialist Group in Parliament. Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u3	Mr President! Sipilä’s government has driven down public health services when it decided to ban anesthetic surgery from several locations in Rauma to Kouvola and Forssa to Iisal. Patients were centralized by the government, claiming patient safety. To a great surprise, yesterday the government brought a proposal to Parliament to tailor the possibility of transferring these patients to private hospitals. So, first of all, public action is being driven down from many places in the name of patient safety, but patient safety is by no means an obstacle when more business is needed for private individuals. And if anything goes wrong, the patients will be sent back to a public hospital on the taxpayers' side. So public action down, patients and profits to the private and the cost to the taxpayers. Minister Saarikko, how can you, as Minister of the Centre, bring such a proposal to Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u4	Mr President! As part of the major change in the content and structure of Finnish healthcare during this parliamentary term, even before the social welfare reform, a large division of labour has been carried out, related to special care, to the most demanding part of the most demanding tasks of special care, in which we have also managed to provide good care for Finns on a global scale. Even now, in a hospital, lives are successfully saved. However, since our common goal has been that a stronger focus should be placed on basic services, it is essential that special care should be able to share work. On the basis of this, no Finnish hospital is actually the same. From the smallest regional hospital to the largest university hospital in Helsinki, everyone's role and division of labour have changed. Now, with this proposal, similar rules will apply in terms of quality and criteria to private and public cutting.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u5	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this issue to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u6	Mr President! Minister Saarikko, this is not the case. Vesa Kataja, Head of Hospital District of Central Finland, has commented on your presentation: “The rules should be for all of them. Now there is plenty of room for business, and the public sector handles very expensive and heavy on-call operations. Complications in the private sector fall into the arms of the public sector.” There is now a proposal which is very widely criticised by experts. All hospital districts are against this. And when we debated this in the Chamber yesterday, no government representative defended this motion of yours. Mr President, no representative of the government defended this proposal in the debate yesterday. Experts criticise, hospital districts oppose this, only health business giants defend this. Minister Saarikko, there is a question. Is there another trade that you have not told us about?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u7	Mr President! Before giving the motion, I informed the other government of my assessment that the presentation of the content of this proposal and its veracity — why it is actually being carried out — will be followed by a difficult debate, precisely because of the images you wish to describe in your speech in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u12	Mr President! Patient safety is an important issue. However, this 30-minute limit is an exciting line for you. For example, after an operation in day surgery, a patient at Pori Central Hospital will be allowed to leave the same day for his home in Rauma to recover. Then, at midnight, if the recuperative condition deteriorates, the nearest emergency service is in Pori, 50 km away — that is, more than 30 minutes of driving time. This government has considered the 2016 centralisation decision to be quite acceptable and patient safety. However, with this new presentation, the same day surgery operation cannot be performed at a regional hospital, from which a large emergency hospital is located more than a 30 - minute drive away. Patient safety is not a durable criterion for 30 minutes,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u14	Mr President! First of all, I am trying to open up to this rather complex issue a scale that allows us to understand what we are talking about: we are talking about operations involving anesthesia. Not all surgeries are like that. We are talking in euros about the total share of EUR 170 million in special care of around EUR 6 billion. With regard to the assessment of patient safety or the on-call unit, these same provisions apply from now on to the private and public operator so that, for example, public-funded hospitals currently operating under a private sign cannot continue to operate after this presentation. I find it problematic that, when we were regulating the division of work between public health hospitals, we were not able to state clearly enough in the law how this will apply to private surgery when public money is spent.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u16	Mr President! We certainly believe in this House that everyone should be on the same track, that is, private and public.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u21	Mr President! By the end of this parliamentary term, the main tasks of the government will be to put through this Chamber a proposal for a new social and health service structure, i.e. that the social welfare reform will be ready for this house, so that the work on the ground can finally move from planning to implementation. Mr Kiuru, I know that you, as chairman of the committee, are arguably familiar with the package of proposals, and it is important to note in this respect that this proposal will also lead to private cuttings which will be restricted and even stopped. In other words, contrary to what you want to paint in your speech, there are a number of dimensions to this issue. The starting point is that at the moment we do not have a sufficiently clear legal framework which would only be made up of a supervisory authority, with regard to the fact that if public money is operated on in a private hospital, it will be subject to the same quality and quantity criteria as public hospitals, and thus the same criteria will apply to both.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u22	Madam President! The more the dirt goes, the more confused this all gets and the more the patient is a pawn. For Finns, patient safety has been one of the most important issues of this period and last season. We have vigorously called for the development and improvement of patient safety. It is now beginning to feel that the government itself does not know what kind of proposals it is making. The regional hospitals have first been driven down, and now the private ones are going to operate. I do not want to belittle private expertise, but I ask you, Minister: how is it possible that when a private person makes a mistake, the public is the one who replaces it? This needs to be corrected and, for example, an assurance that if a private person is harmed, then they will fix it and pay for it. What about the bill on customer payments? I want to bring it up again. There the ceiling on customer fees will rise, and that means more and more sick, elderly, poor people will have to pay more. In the present law
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u23	Mr President! Mr Juvose's question was about two major topics. I shall now concentrate on responding to this first question on the main issue of surgery. I find it gratifying that you raise the issue of patient safety. I believe that it is one of the most important values for all of us and, above all, for those people who work as social workers, for each of the doctors who conduct operations both in public and in private — a very large proportion of them, by the way, work in both. As far as patient safety is concerned, this presentation makes it possible to consider improving patient safety in private surgery. As a starting point, I also think it is justified to consider, from the point of view of the customer or of the citizen who is waiting for surgery, that there will continue to be a condition for the future provinces to resort to private cuts so that they can meet the limits of the legal treatment guarantee, so that people do not have to wait in line for surgery. This is what many hospital districts are doing at the moment. But in the future, the difference is that
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u24	Madam President! This is a complex issue and not as straightforward as the Minister has described it. The attempt to restructure our hospital facility is a good one, and it will be necessary to strengthen basic services in the future. But in this situation, the problem is that, at the same time, the preparation of the social welfare reform is coming to an end here, and according to this, health care will be organised in a comprehensive manner in the provinces and in cooperation with them, both in relation to the work of hospitals and primary health care in the region. I would have asked the Minister: how do you see this issue, which we are talking about here, with regard to the reform of social security, which is already very advanced in the regions?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u25	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say that I recognise that the new articles on the operation of private surgery and, in fact, on the operation of the surgery of the separate departments of public hospitals also give rise to much debate which has been linked to the division of work between hospitals throughout this parliamentary term, in the public sector alone, that I recognise that these changes have been difficult in the regions, and it is therefore important to remember that no hospital in Finland has been turned off. All over the world, specialist doctors take care of their clinic functions, and treatment — special care is more than just surgery — is available from all these hospitals now and in the future. With regard to this whole, as you asked, Mr Puska, the division of labour between hospitals is very closely linked to the social reform in that we are jointly committed in an ageing Finland to ensuring that, instead of using resources scattered across the various networks of Finland, we gather experts, thereby ensuring their adequacy,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u26	Madam President! As a member of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I am a little shocked by the way the responsible minister minimizes the consequences of his own bill. It is now quite clear that when you first deprive public hospitals of the possibility of surgery, then you give it to private hospitals, without being responsible for anything if complications occur, and the public has to deal with complications, the result is that doctors, experts may not regard public hospitals as attractive jobs as private ones. We already have a shortage of doctors, and this bill is likely to exacerbate the shortage of experts on the public side. In other words, when you claim that this has no adverse effects on the public sector, it is not true. I would have drawn attention to the fact that this government's own bill states that this bill
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u27	Mr President! The impact assessments of the law have been carried out, as in other proposals, and the whole of which this would have an impact can be examined. My officials estimate that this will in fact reduce the use of private cutting activities, especially since, once the regional reform and the social welfare reform have entered into force, it is primarily necessary to seek support for the dismantling of care queues, for example, in other hospitals in the region, such as the neighbouring region. Since you rightly recognise that the points in this proposal are very difficult and have been subject to a great deal of opposition — the longest and, most importantly, private health care was opposed to these points — I think it is all right that Parliament has taken the line that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is also assessing this, as is the case with all the other articles relating to the division of labour between hospitals, and thus also assessing whether the interests of the taxpayer, the interests of the patient and, on the other hand, adequate equality between the various actors are being achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u28	Mr President! The Emergency Services Regulation, which was adopted in 2016, specifically sought to improve patient safety and quality, and this reform has been based on it. And at the moment, when services are provided, so that people, for example, have access to cataract surgery or hernia surgery or varicose veins surgery at the limit of the treatment guarantee, in many medical districts the public sector, especially here in Uusimaa, is unable to treat them and patients are not receiving treatment. So would this Chamber be prepared to tell people that they will not receive the treatment in the time when we would be in an illegal situation? At the moment, we are in an illegal situation where we are buying a service, but we have not defined the quality of the service as equal to that of the public service. This will bring quality management to those specific purchases, and everything will continue to be the responsibility of the Hospital District: You can determine how much you buy and what you buy. No one is forced to buy anything.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u29	Mr President! It is thought that the situation arises that an anesthetic operation is necessary, as the doctor has said, to improve the health of the person and, at the same time, the hospital district says that unfortunately we have a situation that we cannot promise you, in accordance with the medical guarantee, a period of surgery, and that is why we have entered into an agreement with a private operator so that you can also choose its operator and thereby get to the operation more quickly. With this proposal, the same quality and quantity criteria apply to these, whether in public or private operations.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u32	Mr President! Of course, traffic has been caused in hospitals when you have banned surgery in regional hospitals. Mr President! This seems to be an attempt to explain this proposal, as it were, to clarify the current situation, but the Government's proposal clearly states that the new regulations would give private operators a wide range of opportunities to provide cutting services in the city of central hospital hospitals without significant cost increases. After all, this proposal has been tailored specifically to private operators. On top of that, you have written a motion on social and regional reform in isolation, so this proposal will come into force even if the social and regional reform still falls during this parliamentary term. In other words, the coalition would indeed have a large-scale privatisation of health care without a regional reform in the centre. Minister Saarikko, do you think this is the case?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u33	Mr President! In principle, this is a separate law because, as a member of the committee, you will certainly feel, with a great deal of knowledge, that the reform of the social welfare system is entirely new legislation and this is a single article in the existing health care law. That is why these are, of course, dealt with in this respect as a whole of different laws. But I have recognized and, as I have already said, informed the government, when this proposal was decided to give it to us, that this will certainly be a difficult and much opposed debate because we are sitting in a very deep perspective on the differences between the private and public health activities, despite the fact that, in my opinion, the original purpose of this proposal is to ensure that the quality criteria of the action are evened out and that the individual units, for example, in the difficult situation of the Western Nordic Mehiläinen and the externalisation which has raised a great deal of debate here, will certainly be able to ensure that the same criteria apply to their activities, even though there is a private sign on the roof. But because, as I said earlier, the motion raises a lot of criticism,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u34	Mr President, Mr Värderade fru talman! Då man fråntog kretssjukhuse att operara med anestasi var motiveringarna bland you give att man skulle concentrera resurserna och sakkunskap, och framför allt öka patientryggheten. Nu talar man här om att det har blivit långa köer och att patienttrygheten därför är i fara.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u35	Mr President! I share with the questioner the concern that we have a great deal of work to do, that in demanding special care work, both on call and in general, a broad-based public health care and hospitals would have a sufficiently good and attractive employer in the future. But with reference to your question, when you said about this transition, 30 minutes, which is now only a question of the regulation — that is not what the article here provides for: In this respect, it should be noted that that 30 minutes actually means something also for public hospitals. In fact, the chairman of your party has also raised the issue of Pietarsaari a great deal. If I have understood correctly, within this number of minutes the hospital district itself would be able to continue its activities in Pietarsaari.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u37	Madam President! It was with patient safety that the Emergency Services Regulation was justified and therefore these day-surgery operations started to be driven down by many very well-functioning regional hospitals, such as Iisalmi, Kouvola, Forssa, Loimaa — to name but a few. With this concentration regulation, these cost-effective public hospitals were scrapped, and this is also very important in regional policy in these areas. Healthcare professionals have left these hospitals. I would have liked to ask the Minister: has there been any question as to the impact of this on regional policy in Finland? Now they want to open up to these individuals what was first driven down from the public sector. Is this equal for these operators, and what really are the regional policy implications of this proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u38	Mr President! Both the effects of health care and medicine, and certainly the vitality effects of the regions, were reeded in many ways in this Chamber when the articles on regional hospital activities were made. However, I think it is important to remind you that every regional hospital works from now on. It would probably have been easier in a certain way to find a solution to turn off the lights from a couple of places and thus ensure that there are many experts and that common funds are saved. But we started on the path of division of labour between regions. And the biggest role that may have been overlooked in this debate, and the responsibility lies with the university hospital in each region and the first hospital district in the region, which is responsible for ensuring that all areas, including those of smaller hospitals and smaller hospital districts, are adequately equipped with experts. Patient safety and the adequacy of doctors are essential issues. And as far as the regional hospital network is concerned, as far as I understand it, there is still a high-quality, excellent operation. And let's remember that the most important things in special medical care are other than surgical operations.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u39	Next question, Mr Ronkainen from the Parliament Group of the Finns Party, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u40	Mr President! Finland is a country of long distances. You can't do without a car in Finland, with some exceptions. Rubber wheels run the whole society as goods and people move. In November, the citizens' initiative to abolish the so-called diesel tax, i.e. the power tax, received the 50,000 signatures needed in record time. Now there are nearly 120,000 supporters. In their alternative budget, the Finns of Finland again presented a reduction in fuel tax. This wasn't good enough for the government. Mobility costs have a significant impact on the profitability of working life and consumer prices. My question is: why do you, Mr Government, do not want to moderate fuel taxes, but continue to discipline the Finnish?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u41	Madam President! First of all, it is quite clear that in Finland, as the representative well mentioned, in a country of long distances, that private car is absolutely necessary in that everyday life, running it, going to work and doing things, and it will be that for a long time to come. It is difficult to see at these distances that alternative instruments exist. In the long term, we must strive to ensure that these are as emission-free as possible, so that important climate objectives can also be achieved. As far as the taxation of motor vehicles is concerned, we must collect the tax money needed to run our welfare society, its services, build infrastructure and safety from somewhere. The social agreement has been that we have a certain level of road taxation and fuel taxation. The government has adopted a predictable tax policy in its programme and the reduction of fuel tax has not been included, but has been kept to the current level. As far as this power tax is concerned, it is not really possible to abolish it individually as set out in the citizens' initiative, but rather to look at it.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u42	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u43	Mr President! I don't think there's going to be any relief for the Somalis. Also worrying is the fact that in yesterday's MTK Presidency the demars, the Left Alliance and the Greens were in favour of fuel tax increases next season. Only the Finns of Peru have left this cheeklessly expensive climate group. The city center drives such an absurd obligation to mix with liquid fuels that prices can rise by up to tens of cents per litre. It is, of course, wonderful that, before the elections, the government and the Green Left show their willingness to tax. Dear government, do you have any intention of facilitating work and logistics costs? You're just making things worse for the Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u44	Madam President! When, for example, these solutions are made in an important way to combat climate change, we must ensure that the cost to the household remains reasonable, and this also applies to driving. We would prefer to make structural solutions such as car tax, vehicle tax and fuel taxation, which will lead to the renewal of our fleet of cars, and to make solutions that allow public transport to be used — wherever possible — and then go towards targets. However, the costs there at the household level will be kept sane, because, as has been said, a car is necessary for so many people in Finland. But I would like to point out that the car tax has been reduced during this regime, the vehicle tax has been reduced a short time ago, and on two occasions we have also used the scrapping premium, which has been popular and which has sought to support ordinary people in the renewal of cars. In other words, in my opinion, it has been done in this policy of the motorist as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u45	Madam President! True Finns want to keep the whole of Finland inhabited. The city centre and blue people also used to want to keep the whole of Finland inhabited, but you don't want to anymore. We have long distances in Finland. We have long business trips in Finland. Fuels also account for a large share of commuting costs. However, the government passed a law on the obligation to mix biofuels and the obligation to distribute biofuels, which is more than twice as tight as the EU directive would have imposed, and this will significantly increase fuel prices in the next decade. Prime Minister Sipilä, you are driving behind God with over 100,000 euros of Tesla — an electric car. You don't care what fuel costs with a tank.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u48	Madam President! Driving is still necessary in Finland and will continue to be necessary. We have therefore also made sure that the conditions for driving will continue to be good in Finland. However, we also want to make it possible for us to have alternative fuels available as far as motor vehicles are concerned, because the market price of diesel — which is a key fuel, especially for heavy-duty vehicles, air transport and shipping — is constantly rising internationally. In this respect, renewable fuels are an important opportunity to continue to move around the existing car fleet and at the same time to ensure that transport emissions can be contained in this respect. Nevertheless, it is important to remember that diesel will be needed in the future, but we must also have solutions to the fact that we have alternative propulsion.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u49	Mr President! Combating climate change is now one of mankind's most important tasks, and that is why car taxation must also be in line with the fight against climate change. One very important issue that combats climate change would be a stronger preference for biogas. It is also a domestic fuel if its production is encouraged. I must say that the government has done the good work of giving conversion aid so that people can turn their cars into gas. But instead, gas drivers will be penalised by the fact that car taxation will rise again after this conversion, and that is really at odds with favouring biogas consumption. My question is: what will the government do to remedy this situation? I would also like to ask: what is the government doing to promote domestic biogas production?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u50	Madam President! Indeed, biogas is one of the key drivers that can be further processed so that it can be used for private car use, but also for heavy traffic, and for example for buses and coaches in cities. It is also true that, in this regard, we have a contradiction in terms of power taxes and the government's proposal to support the conversion of biogas cars. I agree with what the Minister of Finance has just said about the need to look at the whole issue of power taxation again, to see it encouraging the development of the potential of commercial diesel as well as the promotion of biogas. But this would require a comprehensive reform of the vehicle and car tax and of the propulsion tax as well. The EU is also considering this whole, and it is also a good thing that this can be agreed in the next government negotiations.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u51	Mr President! It is quite cheekless that the Finns of Finland blame the blue, heirs of the Finnish Rural Party, [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u52	Minister Orpo, and the Prime Minister, too, just now wanted a small speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u53	Mr President! In tax policy, the government has a clear programme of its own, which is well known to its representative, Mr Elo. We are not on this government to make new decisions. After all, the latest thing is that the car tax was in practice reduced by about EUR 100 million, which is a significant reduction, as a result of driving into the new method of measurement. As far as the future of the car tax is concerned, I think that this climate issue is everything, and we need to make decisions that will help the average Finnish average income to change the car to a low-emission, low-emission one. That is why I think it would be sensible for cars with zero emissions and low emissions to be released in the coming period, or at least the car tax to be reduced. But as far as the abolition of the entire car tax is concerned, it will require a long transition period, a long plan, because there can also be no disruption to the important car trade.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u54	Mr President! According to the chairman of the Finns Party, I live behind God’s back, i.e. in Oulu. From there I have traveled from Oulu with a wooden car, a peat-driven car, diesel, gas and electricity, and all the way here from there. My own thinking is that the whole of Finland must be able to move, the mobility of every Finnish citizen must be guaranteed, and for most people the only option is a passenger car. Well, why mix up the obligation? The blending obligation therefore mixes petrol or diesel into biofuels, and the biofuel is made from pine, for example, and it brings work to the Finnish worker who works. We are not an oil country, as our neighbour Norway is, but this is how we make Finland an oil state when we make biofuels and mix them with fossil fuels.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u55	Madam President! The climate issue is big and very important, and it is therefore also important to understand that it is not just individual measures that are the solution, but that we should look at this as a whole — and, above all, how it would be cheaper for us people to go to work and to go to work, how to make Europe's oldest car fleet less emission-efficient. I am sure you have made the right decisions to renew the car fleet with a reduction in the car tax and a scrapping premium, but these have all been handing out to those on high incomes or those who are able to buy a new car.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u56	Madam President! The climate issue is a big issue and the importance of transport is considerable, especially in this whole area, when it comes to non-emission trading solutions. As far as transport is concerned, we here in one Parliament have stated that transport should be carbon neutral by 2045. This can only be achieved through a wide range of measures, and it requires not only transport-related measures, but also measures relating to income tax and other tax solutions, so that everyone can make their own choices accordingly and thus be able to participate in climate action and climate solutions. But it also requires that we make a path for ourselves today as to how to look forward. And for this, various studies have been carried out that provide different tools, different solutions that must then be weighed against one another. After all, the scrapping premium has brought a great deal of new low-emission vehicles to transport and has removed the oldest cars from our traffic. But this is only one, a very small part of the whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u57	Next question, representative Aalto, Green Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u58	Madam President! Combating poverty and inequality must be one of our key common tasks. In the spirit of cooperation, I am now offering ministers a concrete alternative, a means of combating poverty: abolishing the fees for the reception of health centres in the context of the regional reform. Health centres and doctors and nurses receive approximately EUR 90 million per year, according to the best estimate. By deducting all costs related to the invoicing and administration of customer charges and payments made through income support from that sum, the net income from customer fees will be significantly reduced. Recruitment fees therefore bring a small return, but they cost a great deal if people do not apply for treatment in a timely manner. Will you take this offer, Minister Saarikko?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u59	Mr President! It is true that customer fees are an obstacle for some people to access services. That is why I very much welcome the fact that this new bill on customer fees, on which we discussed referrals here yesterday, has strengthened the obligation of municipalities and future provinces to offer people the possibility of a refund if they are considered to be low-income. Perhaps further clarification of yesterday's debate and the answers I have given you and others: it is essential to note that the new law is, therefore, much more binding than it is today. This is a significant change in view of the fact that we know that the customer charges that have fallen behind are a great burden on enforcement and income support. Payments may be exempted and relieved even if they are not a customer of income support if they show that their own income and available resources are small. In addition, we have broadened the range of issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u60	Another parliamentary group, the Left Alliance Parliamentary Group, also has a question on this same subject. Then a supplementary question for representative Aalto. — Mr Andersson, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u61	Mr President! Minister Saarikko, you are well aware that the main problems of equality in Finnish social welfare and health care relate specifically to primary health care. Too long queues for the health centre and excessive social and health care fees make access to care for many low-income Finns difficult. You are also well aware that until now, municipalities and hospital districts have not made use of the possibility of reducing charges for low incomes that are already provided by the law. And what does this government do? You are making the situation worse with a new bill on customer fees. The abolition of the ceiling of the health centre fee will increase the visiting fees of many low-income Finnish health centres by up to hundreds of euros a year. Minister Saarikko, is such a policy the basis for strengthening,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u62	Let's stay in one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u63	Mr President! I myself have given much thought to the impact of this, which has already been mentioned in the previous question, and have also been evaluated. It can be seen that it would have an effect on seeking treatment. In particular, I think that there would be a side to the free payment of carers' fees. Of course, this is where my eyes turned towards the Ministry of Finance. This proposal is not intended to raise any more fees than is currently the case. That accumulation, one and a half billion in common cashiers as customer fees, will therefore remain the same, but at the same time, because the proposal is a whole, such as the fact that the services of all minors will be free of charge, again means changes. It is important to note that according to THL’s assessment, which has assessed all the effects of this customer fee law, the winners of the performance are families with children and elderly people in home care. Therefore, in relation to the number of visits to health centres you refer to:
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u64	Let's take a few more questions from both of you, first of all, Mr. Aalto.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u65	Madam President! Minister, you responded beautifully to the possibilities of the provinces, but there is one big problem facing this opportunity. We all know that. They do not have the right to tax and are mainly financed by the State. When the state mechanically cuts regional funding through a budget cutter, it leads to a sustainability deficit in the provinces, a purely budget deficit, and when the region has a budget deficit, it tries to limit the use of human services, to increase customer charges. Customer fees will probably be raised to the bottom in all provinces, and then the value of personal customer bills and personal budgets will be very low. That is why I ask a great deal on behalf of people with disabilities, on behalf of the elderly and people outside occupational health care: would it not be the most sensible thing for the economy and public health to abolish reception fees and thereby reduce poverty and inequality?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u66	Mr President! This proposal would cost euros, and it is stated here that there is no attempt to raise more common funds through customer fees, but since the proposal is a whole, the changes made elsewhere will affect the whole of the customer fees — for example, I think it is an excellent thing that in the future dentist visits and other oral health care visits will map out and accumulate the ceiling. On the one hand, when the most painful problem of a proposal prepared over the years and over several years of government has been, firstly, the lack of clarity regarding, for example, housing payments for the elderly and, secondly, the fact that the municipalities have had a very exclusive, autonomous right to levy charges for which nothing is said in the law, I think it is very justified to introduce clearer provisions at the level of the law. It basically increases the equality of Finns, even though this is the kind of pain that must arise during the transition.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u67	A supplementary question, Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u68	Mr President! Minister Saarikko, when you talk about this as a cost-neutral reform and it is not meant to raise more funds for the state treasury, then you talk from the perspective of the state finances but not from the perspective of a single low-income Finnish. The problem with this reform is that the improvements that will be made will be financed by increasing the number of visits to the health centre, primary health care. In other words, you pay for the improvements, which in itself is done, by the elderly who use a lot of services. That is what this proposal basically brings with it. Minister Saarikko, we know that abolishing health centre fees throughout the country would cost less than EUR 100 million. How can it be that when the government seems to have enough money to carry out such a social welfare reform that, as a result of companies’ cream peeling, can raise costs by up to billions of euros, you could not find money to reform the customer payment legislation in such a way that no one’s position would have deteriorated?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u69	Mr President! It is true that this proposal has been prepared for several periods of government. And with regard to the cost limits and the whole of this, when, in terms of health policy, there could certainly be grounds for many types of free-of-charge, the calculation by the Ministry of Finance of the extent to which this package can be carried forward. However, I would like to point out from Mr Andersson's point of view that the National Institute for Health and Welfare has indeed estimated that the winners of this proposal are, for example, elderly people in home care or families with children.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u70	Next question: Swedish Parliament Group, representative Löfström. We will do so so that as many groups as possible can now speak in honour of the new year, that only one question per group.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u71	Mr President! On New Year's Day, Aapeli hit Åland and other parts of Finland. Still, nine days after the storm, about a thousand households in Åland have no electricity. For Åland, this is a natural disaster. The damage to the forest is enormous. Storm damage over one night is estimated to correspond to at least four years of normal felling in Åland. In order not to cause excessive damage to the forest industry, the taxation of forest owners should allow the possibility to amortise their income from the forest that the storm has brought down in such a way that they can be used for forest work over the coming years, as it will take many years before the next normal felling can be carried out. Is the government prepared to consider measures to prevent forest owners from suffering double, first because of the storm and then because of taxation?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u72	Madam President! In fact, today I met representatives of Åland. There were other things on the table, but this too was overlooked. Fortunately, the situation is starting to be that most of the households have electrical connections. There was a truly widespread disaster in Åland. We went through it. As far as this proposal is concerned, the representatives of Åland did indeed do the same, and I promised them during the day that this matter should be investigated. It was a new idea that the taxation of higher sales income from sales of wood for one year could be amortised. This is a new proposal, and it must be carefully considered and seen if it is possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u73	The next main question, the Christian Democratic Parliament Group, Mr Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u74	Madam President! Finland’s success in competitiveness among peoples is often very small, and we need to be somewhat better than others. We have responded by raising the level of education and research. Now, however, we are in a very special situation, because researchers, highly educated researchers, are moving away from Finland to a large extent, because so much has been cut out of the research money during this term of government. The Academy of Finland estimates that as many as 1,500 researchers have moved out of Finland for 15 years. During this reign this has accelerated: in 2016 we were losing about 300 researchers. Minister, I would like to ask now that these savings have led to such important things: How does the government view the move from Finland to higher education? How can we stop this brain drain?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u75	Mr President! That's an excellent question, thank you. First of all, internationalisation has been a long-term goal in Finnish higher education and science policy, which is also a positive phenomenon: the fact that our researchers are so great that they want to be recruited to the world and they get international experience from it, which hopefully will also channel good back to their country. But what you need to take good care of and hold on to is that Finland is an attractive country to return to and that Finland is also an attractive country for the best foreign experts to seek to conduct research or, for example, for the business side to seek to start companies and work here. We have many activities underway through the vision of higher education and research in 2030, which has been drawn up together with universities. In the last few decisions, we were able to increase Finland's research and innovation budget by EUR 112 million this year, driven by good economic conditions.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u76	And then the question of the Central Parliamentary Group, representative Kiviranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u77	Mr President! We are all aware of the unfair distribution of income in the food chain. The EU Commission has also become aware of this problem. The share of the primary producer is too small. Even Esa Härmälä could not cut as thin a slice of rye hole bread as the farmer’s share today is. It's the store. It's the store. Trade chains' own brands undermine product development. Unfair trading practices are also in place. Mr Leppä, you have done well to improve the position of the farmer in the food chain. Would you tell us now what the government has done and what is yet to come to improve the difficult chain position of the farmer? Is the store supposed to make an improvement?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u78	Mr President! The deal needs to improve. It is quite clear that trade is an absolutely superior player in the food chain, and this superiority has grown over the last few years. That is why the government has adopted a completely new legislation, the Food Markets Act, and yesterday a place has been opened for the Food Markets Ombudsman. For the first time now, we are going to have an independent, neutral body in this country who will be able to see the agreements that are being concluded within the food chain. There has definitely been a need for this. This is also borne out by the European directive mentioned by Mr Kiviranta, which was completed before Christmas. With all this, we want to balance the food chain, new growth within the chain and new confidence in which growth is possible. There is a demand for clean, Finnish, safe, traceable food both in Finland and in export markets,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u79	And the question of the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party, Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u80	Madam President! According to the family barometer, Finns need more flexibility to reconcile work and family. This is, in fact, what society needs most of all. Equality in working life must be strengthened and the reconciliation of parenthood and working life further facilitated. Above all, it is about equality, but it will inevitably also have an impact on fertility, because family-friendly working life is the key to increasing birth rates. According to the family situation, mothers and fathers should have the right to work at a distance and part-time, to work fluently on family leave and to take shifts according to their wishes. In addition, there could also be flexibility during the opening hours of day-care centres. A reform of family leave would also be essential, which would result in a much more even distribution of care responsibilities between parents than is currently the case. This is also the will of the coalition.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u81	Mr President! As far as Parliament is concerned, I have come to the conclusion that it is not right to bring further legislative proposals to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. We have a lot of work to do and I know that it is well done there. But the question is important. In fact, this does not automatically require even legal changes in response. It is a question of the attitude of working life. I notice that some day ago I answered questions about pregnancy discrimination, that is, that there are proven examples that waiting for a child or taking parental leave has weakened the position of employment, even leading to dismissal. It is not enough for us to say that it is illegal and that employers cannot do so; in fact, we should turn the attitude much more towards the fact that such an employee is a resource for a company or a public employer. A job may also benefit from a person who has a family and who tries to reconcile them to the best of his ability. In your question, you mentioned very relevant flexibility factors, none of which require a change of law.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u82	Blue Parliamentary Group, representative Hongisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u83	Mr President! During previous governments, police administrative structures have been changed several times. Changes are justified by improving police services. Unfortunately, the opposite has happened: the number of police posts has been reduced and areas of activity have been extended, the alert response times are increasing year by year. The security of citizens and their sense of justice are under test if crimes are left unscrupulous and unscrupulous. The blue people who are concerned for safety think it's time for action. We believe that it is now urgent to find out how the acute problems of the police and the Border Guard will be addressed and resolved. Mr President! I ask Minister Mykkäs: will there still be a report on the need for police and Border Guard resources during this term of government, so that the next government can immediately and effectively allocate resources to where the need is greatest?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u84	Mr President! Thank you for the important question to Mr Hongisto. First of all, I can tell you that, on Monday, we will have almost 100 more police officers this year, on the basis of the calculation with the police superintendent and the police department's financial management. We are rounded to 100 in the same chapter with 40 people as we started in 2015. We have stopped the decrease in the number of police officers and have now turned it into a rise. It is equally clear, of course, that if we want to keep Finland the safest country in the world, then in the coming years we will need a long-term reinforcement programme for the police and the security apparatus — hundreds of police officers will certainly be spoken of. And we have now launched a programme on the basis of the results, which will tell us what we will get if we implement such changes. Of course, how the resources of the Border Guard are secured — especially as regards the regions on the eastern border — is also a key issue here, because they do a lot of police work there too. But the answer is yes. Such a programme will be made, on the basis of which, in the negotiations of the government, the one who sits there,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u85	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Culture must deliver an opinion. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u86	Mr President! I present the government proposal to Parliament as a law amending the Act on Supplementary Sports Pensions. I'll start with the background. The Act on Supplementary Sports Pensions entered into force in February 2015. Athletes' pension is a recognition, not a benefit-based pension scheme for Finnish athletes. The pension is intended to be granted to successful athletes. Athletes' pension is discretionary. An additional state athlete’s pension may be granted to the athlete in recognition of the gold medal received at the Olympic Games. For a particular reason, a pension may also be granted for a significant international sports career. In addition to sports achievements, the pension is granted taking into account the taxable income of the applicant. The pension may be granted either as a total pension or as a partial pension, depending on the income level of the applicant. The level of the full pension is currently good EUR 1300 per month and the partial pension is half the amount of the full pension. Athletes' pensions are granted from the proceeds of the lottery. The proposal introduces a provision in the Act on the Supplementary Pension for Sports, which provides for a derogation from the statutory income limit for a particularly distinguished Olympic winner or Paralympic champion. It is also proposed to include in the Act an indication that an additional athlete’s pension may also be awarded to an athlete for the gold medal awarded at the Paralympic Games. It is also proposed that the partial pension already granted could be converted into a full pension on application if the applicant's income conditions have changed permanently. A similar provision is contained in the Act on Supplementary Artists' Pensions. Instead of fixing the amount of pension, the State budget proposes to fix the maximum number of pensions to be granted. It is also proposed to delete the reference to the financing of pensions from the profit of the bet and the lottery. The amendment is in line with the Act on Supplementary Artists' Pensions. The proposal can be estimated to have financial implications if the payment of pensions is transferred from the profit pool to budgetary funding. However, the changes proposed in principle are intended to specify the criteria for the award of pensions within the annual allocation set out in the State budget. In recent years, this appropriation has been limited to EUR 260000 and has been used for sports pensions corresponding to a maximum of 16 full pensions. In 2019 the budget will be around EUR 370000. The proposed changes are likely to increase the number of applications for an athlete's pension. Finally, a little reflection on the future of sports pensions. In my opinion, too few people in Finland receive an athlete's pension. At the moment, only a few full pensions are available. Many people have publicly criticised the current system of athletes' pensions, which, in fact, only provides a pension for a few people. That is why it is necessary to reform the system now and also in the future, so that we can offer more and more of society's thanks for the successful representation of Finland in sport. Mr President! The aim of the reform is therefore to improve the livelihood of the athletes who have brought Finland fame and honour. In addition, it will enable the shortcomings of the Act on Sports Pensions to be remedied in relation to artist pensions. The Olympic victory is the most prestigious achievement in the sports world, a direct feat, and rewarding the athletes who have achieved it is also one way to raise the value of sport in Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u87	Thank you. — To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u88	Madam President! In 1975, Urho Kaleva Kekkonen, president of the republic, had promised the Olympic winners a pension. Also Charles “Golden-Kalle ” Kangasniemi said Kekkonen made this promise. Well, it took a small moment from the promise of 75 years to February 2013 before making this Kekkonen promise true. Madam President! The idea of an athlete’s pension is that when athletes who have achieved a long, well-known career have sacrificed their future pension income for training, the purpose of the pension is specifically to grant them additional income when the pension has been too low due to their career as an athlete. This is the way to reward, or not reward, but to support artists, including through additional artist pensions. Not all artists, not as a prize, but those who have made a successful career and have therefore lost their pension income. So this is not a prize or a confession. Separately, there is the Pro Sport Award, which is both a recognition and a financial prize, and this can be awarded to everyone. Madam President! When I read this proposal, there are actually three points here, two of which are good: the fact that you can apply for a full pension in the future if your income changes, and secondly, the possibility that this may come from budgetary resources in addition to the profit margin. But instead I am surprised at this third proposal that, contrary to the original purpose of the law, it would no longer be just an idea to support those athletes who, because of their career, have had a low pension, but could also be granted a pension to others. This has not been supported by your ministry, the Ministry of Education and Culture, and the State Sports Council has also stated: “The Sports Council resists the proposal to deviate from the income limits by apart of the Specially Entitled Olympic Winner or Paralympic Winner. “ Signed: Chairman of the State Sports Council, Olympic winner Tapio Korjus. Madam President! There is also a big question here about what the repercussions of this would be on future artist pensions, and I would therefore like the committee to consider this third point very carefully: whether it is appropriate to change the basic principle and idea of the law, namely to correct the loss the athlete has suffered as a result of his career as an athlete. This is not a prize, it has other principles.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u89	Was there a need for a few answers? At least Mr Essayah and Mr Multala wished, and then we'll be back on the list soon.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, there are many such elements in this proposal that increase equality, if you could say so. First of all, we are getting closer and closer to artist pensions and, secondly, the important thing is to put the athletes on the same footing. Of course, it is important that, in the future too, we should be able to consider whether this funding will come from the budget, not just from the profits of the bet and the money lottery. But this is the same thing as Mr Arhinmäki I would like to draw attention to. Of course, there are situations where a great success in the Olympic or Paralympic Games will be rewarded, but we have this Pro Sport procedure for it. On the one hand, you could say that, above all, in time, a whole system has been created for those who did not have the opportunity to study at that time and, on the other hand, who may have left a career in some way broken and fragmented. Perhaps there were injuries or similar things that did not allow a normal pension to accumulate. In that sense, I would have liked to have heard the Minister's arguments on this point, the abolition of these income limits.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u91	Mr President! I thank the Minister for bringing forward a good proposal and clarifications. — — — — However, perhaps the point that previous comments stem from is that not all athletes, especially individual athletes, have any pension coverage at the moment, and in practice all athletes suffer from it, that is to say, very few people have any pension during a sports career. At the moment, this law applies to those persons who, in other words, have not been able in practice to compensate for the amount of pension they receive in the course of their sports career. Perhaps now, more than this change, I see it as a lack of this pension provision for all those who take that risk and throw themselves into a sports career. It should be a much safer choice for everyone, including those who won't win that Olympic medal. It is therefore a good thing that the Minister has already drawn attention to this problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u92	Madam President! During the last parliamentary term, when this law was adopted, it was a step in the right direction, and now a little improvement is being made. Mr Arhinmäki intervened that, of course, there is this ‘for a particular merit’ and ‘for a particular reason’. Well, of course, it is worth looking at what are the particular merits and the specific reasons for it to be equal. These income limits are in themselves very low and, as Mr Multala has mentioned here, many athletes have very low pension levels. A sports career may last 10 years, even 15 years, and that is why the career will be short, and it is good that we can now at least make up for it to some extent. That is the point I would like to send to the unions when this pension is specifically granted on application, that pensioners have grown up and that not everyone will necessarily follow the website of the Ministry of Education and Culture closely every day, and that will require the unions to be actively informed of these athletes so that they know that such a system exists and that they can apply.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u93	Mr President! It is a good thing that this system exists, and I agree with what has been said here in the past about its merits and how important this is, and of course it also requires that it be adequately resourced. I would like to ask a few questions here when I listened to Mr Arhinmäki's speech and he is certainly on the right track when he asks about this issue of income limits, because it is quite significant if the Sports Council as a whole — a rather authoritative body that is considering these issues — opposes this. I would like to hear your arguments on this point, Mr Terho, because here, however, this element of opposition exists. Of course, I understand that if the resources are scarce and someone gets a little less than the income limits, then someone may get a little less, and that is why I would like to know what is actually going on in this context. I myself am not in the Sports Council and I do not know what has been going on there, and I therefore hope that it will be opened up to some extent here. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u94	Mr President! I also consider this scheme for sportsmen to be important, and it is great that it also includes these reforms. I must say that Mr Kekkonen, whom I appreciated, was wise from afar when he promised such a promise to Kangasniemi and his partners. Of course, equality here is very important, and I would ask the Minister for his own information to add how much that system would cost if all gold medalists were given a pension without a separate application — what size would it be? Is this how big an option for an athlete to know when he wins a medal that he's earned a pension? On the other hand, I believe that this issue of income limits is important and justified. If you are a very successful athlete and have been successful in other areas of civil life since then, then that pension is probably fine. Has there been any thought as to whether an athlete during an athlete’s career could act on a so-called entrepreneurial basis? Even when athletes receive different rewards and compensations during their sports career, it would be considered their result and they would pay a pension from it like entrepreneurs and thus could accumulate this pension provision. And even if it wasn't an Olympic winner,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u95	Mr President! It was not my custom to praise the government of the last parliamentary term, but this was one of the great things that was done during the last parliamentary term under the leadership of the government. It is now a good thing that these necessary corrections, such as amendments, are being made to this effect, for example, that the Paralympics' successes will be covered by this pension. And it is a good thing that this is closer to the criteria for an artist's pension. That is where the Minister mentioned that this system will be developed and there will be places for further development in the future, so that there is still room for improvement. What can you see, Mr Minister, that there is still something to be done in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u96	Let us take five answers: Torniainen, Myllykoski, Rossi, Arhinmäki, Kiuru. Then, of course, there is the Minister's answer, but then we will look at the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u97	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Terho, for presenting the matter. The athlete's pension system is very good and in this context thank you to the previous Parliament for having created it. All in all, I think that this improvement, which is now being made in this government proposal, is very good and welcome, and I believe that it has also been expected. This will also increase the appreciation of sport and sports success. Above all, this is also an issue of equality. Here, too, the Paralympics and Olympic athletes are being brought to the same line as the others. That's a good thing. This has been wanted for a long time. Good speeches have actually been made here about the fact that once these resources have been planned for the preparation of the government's proposal, what would they be? I would ask Minister Terho: now that this is based on the fact that an application can then receive a pension, how much added value would it be if it were to be automatically compensated for the Olympic victory?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u98	It's only a minute. — Representative Myllykoski, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u100	Madam President! Finland is a sports nation. At least we love winners, and that is why I am concerned for those who are not winners, for those who come a little slower to the finish line in different situations. The government has done a lot of good things, including an hour more exercise in schools is one such factor. But there are certainly a lot of things that can encourage athletes during their active hours to invest in their livelihoods. For many young athletes, pension provision is not so much thought-out, and the Olympic victory is also a distant dream for many. Mr President! In this respect, when the term of office of the government and parliament is at the end, the last salvo is going on here: will there still be measures to encourage society, at least, that even those who are not now seeing and perhaps receiving the necessary supplementary pensions in their own right can do better in their active life?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u101	Madam President! This system, when, for the first time in February 2013, athletes’ pensions were distributed to the Olympic winners, came from a pool of winnings and a limited number because there was not yet enough funding or legislation, but this Kekkonen’s promise had to be fulfilled almost 40 years after its adoption. That is why I think it is good that, when we were able to open up our heads and get legislation in the last period, it is now being clarified both in terms of funding and in terms of extending this group. But I continue to point out that the statements have stated that this would put applicants in an unequal position, and the Sports Council says that this change would not serve the purpose of the law in question, i.e. to secure basic income for people who have a very low pension as a result of their sports career. Here is easily the situation that such,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u102	Madam President! Now that this system, in the various parliamentary periods, is constantly developing in the right and better direction, let me throw the idea of development into the coming parliamentary term. We have a large number of coaches who are doing valuable coaching work along with their own work, and many people will then be running out of work and end up doing the same thing for athletes that the pension intake is really low. I would like to put forward the idea that at some point, for example during the coming parliamentary term, the law could be extended in such a way that this could be extended to particularly qualified and, for particular reasons, to low-retirement coaches. That crowd may not be that big, but they've done a remarkable job. And then I repeat what I just missed out on, that the unions have a big responsibility to inform their own athletes that grown-up athletes will not stay on the beach because no one understands to make that application.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u103	Thank you. These are the replies. Is three minutes enough for the minister?
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u104	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. First of all, I am pleased that we have essentially agreed on the relevance of the content and that, apart from the fact that this system is good, it must be developed both now and in the future. The first question, of course, is what I myself was thinking at the time, and what was raised here, at least by Mr Pakkanen: why not simply, for the sake of clarity, for all the Olympic winners? That's when I thought, for example, about Finland's future hockey performance with a firm belief that if I did this kind of categorical performance, then, in four years' time, we'd probably have NHL players again, and in eight years' time, there will be NHL players and then all 20 NHL players would win the Olympic gold and these millionaires would be entitled to this pension, so it would be a sort of unnecessary extension to this system. That is why I was content with this more limited reform. Well, now some of them have indeed expressed doubts as to whether there is an unnecessary addition to this reform, to which the Council has expressed doubts, but what the Olympic Committee and, of course, many Olympic winners themselves have wanted, that is to say, this possibility of derogating from these income limits. The aim is therefore to improve the attractiveness of sports careers. Simply this — even in a small part. In practice, however, this is a very moderate reform and, in my opinion, too moderate. However, given the possibility of flexibility in these limits for a particular reason, the intention would be to make a more flexible and more humane system, which is indeed a very small reform in practice, then, of course, it can be discussed in principle. When asked what to do in the future, what should be done to me — because my philosophy is that this system is precisely to increase the attractiveness of the entire high-sport career — is that it should be possible to extend this to a wider group and also to coaches in the future. That's a very good idea. That's very brief. Two minutes of this philosophical discussion was enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u105	All right, thank you. — Then let us go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u106	Mr President! Many athletes suffer from a tight economic situation after an active career. Some athletes, even well-known ones, live hand in hand even during a career. After all, in Finland, the number of athletes who are able to support themselves through sports is very small. Species-specific differences are also great, and where money is less mobile, even top names make a lot of money. A decent investment in success requires a lot of time and resources as well as significant sacrifices. Many athletes may be less educated when there is so much work to be done to achieve sports success that they do not want much more time. In my opinion, sportsmen's pensions are justified because many people pour a lot of sweatdrops in front of a blue cross flag without just leaving money in their hands. When a sports career is in the package, of course, you will not be able to increase your pension if there is no other income. The provision allowing for a derogation from the prescribed income limit for a specially qualified Olympic winner or Paralympic Winner increases the scope for the award of sports pensions. The possibility of a full partial pension is also a good thing. With the amendment of an additional athlete's pension, it is in line with the provision of the Act on the Supplementary Artist's Pension. This is a fair change. The budgetary impact of the proposal is not significant, but I think it is good that it is proposed to delete the reference to the financing of pensions primarily from the profit of the bet and the lottery. There is already considerable pressure on betting assets, and in the long run, there are a lot of uncertainties about how Veikkaus works as a moneymaker for culture and sport and other activities. The proposal is mainly good, even very good, and contributes to improving the functioning of the sports pension system. But, of course, as a member of the Sports Council, I would also like to take into account this very fact that an athlete's career may have been very short at work, and when he reaches retirement age, even sport has made a very small pension. And it should be noted that it would also be very important to take account of the economic situation, its determination and its impact, in the case of the Olympic winner. We all Finns probably think it's really nice and great and great when the Little Lions brought gold when it comes to Olympic gold, whatever the sport, or there'll be good international success, whatever the sport. There is a difference in species: Some are supported a lot, easy to get sponsors. Other species are not allowed to do it, they have to do it with almost zero euros or pay them all themselves. It is important that any sport is a sport if it gives Finland a reputation and that children and young people and adults are allowed to engage in sports, it is important, valuable. I absolutely believe that there must be some sort of consideration for the Olympic winners and the top athletes who are already successful. In the past decades, this was not the case, and many Olympic athletes, former and very successful, have had to work and work together, have sacrificed a lot, and the people around us have also sacrificed a lot. I remember when in the '70s, when my brother was a tithe player and Finland represented a lot, he trained in the winter so that the weights were there in the living room, and once those weights fell through the floor. When you had to work out in warm conditions and there were no training places, Mother said that now you have to move to the barn side so that not all the planks will break. In other words, it has been quite difficult in the old days, and now it is positive that a little progress has been made in the athlete's career. I therefore hope that this will continue and that athletes will be rewarded when success comes, and before that, there will also be opportunities to pursue and pursue a good career as an athlete. It's great to be able to study at the same time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u107	Mr President! One can say that for once there is a subject on which I can say that I know it even better than my own pockets. Perhaps this is first of all Mr Pakkanen's proposal on why athletes could not be entrepreneurs: Well, the same reason as artists, that is, most athletes actually live from hand to hand. Any income that is available either as sponsor funding or as support for society or as potential support for society usually goes directly to the sport, and especially to early-stage athletes who train as much and travel as well as the peaks but do not make nearly as much money, it is very challenging at that stage to pay these YEL payments with certainty. Of course, running a business is also a bureaucratic challenge in this, along with sport. A few years ago, there was a working group set up by the STM, which actually considered this pension scheme for athletes, and then there was the same kind of scheme that artists currently have, that is to say, that grant athletes would be taken out of that grant directly for pension savings and that scheme would have been covered by MYEL, and this system is now already in use for artists' grants. In the end, everyone else said that this system could not be entered, but the sports association, which therefore represents individual athletes, felt that this would have been a sensible system. I still believe that this would be one of the opportunities that could also be used for athletes and, of course, for athletes who are involved in grants. After all, there are far more of them today, with these smaller, half - scale scholarships as well as young athletes’ scholarships, that is, three different levels. Then, from this proposal itself, I think this is a good one. This does not in itself extend this group of beneficiaries of the actual athlete's pension to a very large extent, since the appropriation remains the same and these are still granted on application. Although I am a member of the Sports Council, I was in fact not present when this opinion was abused, but I do not consider this possibility of deviating from the income limits as a major challenge, because when these are still granted on application, I do not believe that this is what athletes who do not have problems with their livelihoods are looking for, and I believe that this is perhaps more about being quite close to the income limit anyway. Perhaps I am more concerned about the other exception, namely that it is now possible to grant an athlete's pension to people other than the Olympic winners. It is good in itself, because we have many athletes who have won Olympic silver or Olympic bronze or world championships in a heap but not a single Olympic gold and certainly deserve an athlete's pension for their success, especially if, otherwise, there has not been enough pension in the course of their careers. However, this will lead to a place of reflection for the ministry, i.e. the ministry will have to consider in the future who will then be the athletes who meet the criteria and who will not be the Olympic winners. Of course, this opens up the possibility of receiving an athlete's pension now, even in non- Olympic sports. The positive thing is that in the future, athletes' pensions can also be transferred to be financed from the budget. I would see that this would be a good trend in the financing of sport and physical activity as there is also a risk in the future that the odds will possibly be reduced. Perhaps that is what the previous debate has shown: I think the opening of Mr Kiuru to the fact that coaches could also have a similar system is a good thing. True, I hope that it will only apply to coaches who have been trained in the past, perhaps not today, because today a lot of work has been done to ensure that coaching can be a full-time job, especially the training of top athletes, because without a professional coach, a professional, top-level athlete has a much harder way to get to the top. Perhaps I should like to conclude by saying that I believe that the proposal should be supported and I hope that this debate on the social and pension security of athletes will continue. Next season, when we are certainly dealing here with the overall reform of social security, I would like the various parties to reflect on their own ideas on how to resolve the pensions and social security of athletes and non-grant artists, such as freelancers and anyone without an employer. This is precisely the case with sportsmen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u108	The time has been spent on this, so the debate and the matter will be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u109	We will now continue with item 3 that has been suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u110	President! Half an hour was set aside to discuss the amendment of the Act on Supplementary Sports Pensions. Half an hour went by quickly, and now this debate is continuing, although unfortunately reduced. There must be unanimity in the Chamber — at least in the present Chamber, with two representatives and the President present [Laughter] And it is also a very good thing that an athlete's pension system is still approaching the artist's pension scheme. After all, during the last parliamentary term, newspapermen's pensions were abolished, but it was understandablely justified, because they were a product of a different age and no longer justified in the case of new pensions to be granted. Unfortunately, in the debate, Mr Terho did not answer the question raised — whether he was not quoted in a few speeches — whether it was really a matter of recognition or something else primarily related to the livelihood of a former successful athlete. And, President, it would have been appropriate for the Minister to have mentioned something about the relationship between the Pro Sport Award and the sports pension. This is also a fine institution, which has existed since the 21st century, when successful athletes are given a kind of work-related award. I remember it's $20,000. What is also great about this bill is that it is extended to athletes successful in the Paralympics. In many ways, the role of athletes and, in particular, the preparation for a post-a sports career is better and has been improved by various projects and programmes. In the past, the athlete was very alone. There was less training, and then, after a career in sports, it was not always so easy to get into a civil life. There are now various projects to get an athlete to acquire a profession, to train in addition to an athlete’s career or immediately thereafter. There are also various economic programmes to put money aside during a sports career. All this is good, but the sports pension scheme needs to be further developed and expanded. Of course, there are many more athletes than the Olympic winners who have had to make a great deal of sacrifices.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u111	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the Act on Supplementary Sports Pensions. It is proposed to add to the existing law, inter alia, a provision allowing for a derogation from the legal income limit for a particularly distinguished Olympic winner or Paralympic champion. The purpose of the amendments is, in principle, to specify the criteria for the award of pensions within the limits of the annual allocation laid down in the State budget. For this year, EUR 370000 has been budgeted instead of EUR 260000 in previous years and has been allocated to a maximum of 16 full-time athletes' pensions. The possibility of ignoring the income threshold for a particularly distinguished athlete is likely to increase the number of applications, and I do not consider this to be a bad thing at all. Finland is sort of a sports-crazy country and we appreciate our successful athletes. However, I would like to see more and more successful athletes, including the para athlete, able to receive such an athlete's pension. In that sense, too, this is a step in the right direction. Representative Pauli Kiuru made the point today that coaches could also be included in this athlete's pension. I think it is a very well-supported proposal. However, it would also be difficult to decide whether to involve the coaches of top athletes or the coaches who raise them these top athletes, which they then make top athletes. I believe that both levels of training should be favoured, including parasport trainers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u112	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u113	Mr President! The proverb says that victory has a hundred fathers, not one at a loss. The same applies to economic growth: when the economy grows, it is the government's fault, but when you go down, it is in spite of the government's vigorous efforts. Such a debate has taken place many times in this Chamber. That is why it is important that we have an impartial supervisory and evaluation body for fiscal policy, which reports independently of the government to the European Union, and that is why the State Audit Office’s assessment of the success of the decisions taken during the last government term is an important objective speech. And now that we are dealing with it, I challenge the debaters to talk about this VTV parliamentary report and not to praise or insult the government in general. In any case, since the government will change in just over three months, we need a VTV report as a guide and a lesson for the future, as a food for the next government. [OlaviAla-Nissilän intermediate call] What, then, does the report of the National Audit Office say? In a nutshell: to the extent that the budgetary objectives have been successful, thanks have been given to the good cyclical situation. If I use the symbol of long jump, you can say that it is a good result, but it is a wind result. There is too much wind behind the wind to make the same leap in other circumstances. The weather is worse ahead, and it is then important to see how sustainable the condition is. And that's exactly what VTV is making critical remarks about. Despite its promise, the government leaves an almost as large sustainability gap as it did at the beginning of the reign. The starting point was a deficit of 10 billion, and now the deficit is 9 billion. Finland was not going to be all right. According to VTV, another long-term objective will not be achieved. The structural government deficit has not improved significantly during the Government term. I'd say VTV gives the government grade seven. Three paragraphs will be deducted from the full ten, three of which will have to be corrected by the following government: The first observation is, therefore, that fiscal policy is loose at the same time as the economic cycle has improved. That is why the government's objective is not to end debt in 2021. Although not every loan item needed to be raised, the Ministry of Finance predicts that the debt will increase for several years to come. After the Sipilä government, the debt continues. Second point. Economic sustainability had to be helped by the reform of social and health services, which had to generate a relative saving of EUR 3 billion. The savings will by no means be made even if the war comes true. Whether it's social or not, there's no saving. On the contrary, there will be an additional cost of EUR 3 billion. So whatever the Committee on Constitutional Affairs said about the war, the government's social model should not be carried out as fiscally irresponsible. This was already the message of a very critical report by the Committee on Finance, i.e. the government's own assessment. The VTV in this report also warns against significant financial risks of social and regional reform. A quote from page 27 of the report: “ In particular, the freedom of choice model involves risks related to the total cost of the reform. In general, mechanisms involving temporary and permanent additional costs are more automatic than those providing savings.’ The committee criticised the Ministry of Finance for not presenting any impact assessments. However, the National Audit Office claims that it would have been possible and necessary to improve impact assessments. And VTV stresses that it is precisely for this reason that it is necessary to proceed step by step. Mr President! Many people must be sorry to hear this familiar criticism of social welfare again, but the opinion of the National Audit Office is very strong. [OlaviAla-Nissilän intermediate call] I am less familiar with the third and final withdrawal from the VTV report, i.e. criticism of the government's tax policy or criticism of the lack of tax policy, which has, of course, been carried out in the past by the Economic Policy Review Council. The government's tax policy has focused on reducing taxes without an overall picture and has not been responsible. The government has succumbed to tax populism. A quote from page 30 of the report: “ The aim of the Government Programme was to dismantle the incentive traps by reconciling social security and taxation, but implementation was limited during this parliamentary term. The amount of tax subsidies, which have a significant impact on the tax base, remained broadly unchanged during the Government term. The new tax subsidies provided for in the electoral period include entrepreneurship reduction and forest gift reduction.’
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u114	Madam President! It is very important that there should be a debate on the reports of the National Audit Office: a referral debate and then a debate after the committee has dealt with them. It's easy to be too small. The budget here in Parliament will be dealt with throughout the autumn, but then not much of the state's financial statements, or at least not enough. I have really listened to the economists in the Committee on Finance and as a member of the Audit Committee and dealt with these VTV statements. In my opinion, this parliamentary term has been characterised by the fact that economists have been behind the round. Even the Ministry of Finance’s own forecasts did not see economic growth from the outset. I think that is a bad thing in itself, because then decisions can be made on the basis of incorrect forecasts. The Finnish economy has been best predicted by Minister Lintilä, whose predictions have always been broadly correct.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u123	Mr President! This audit office paper is an exceptionally important part of the assessment of the functioning of the government and its fiscal policy. After all, the system has been created since the financial crisis in Greece became apparent that not all Member States became correct estimates of the state of public finances. Since then, new systems have been set up to highlight the importance of the activities of an institution independent of the government and to give them sufficient powers, and we have an Audit Office responsible for this budgetary assessment. Its position has been organised independently so that it operates under the authority of Parliament and is therefore not accountable or subordinate to the Government. This independence also enables the Agency to carry out an assessment which may also include critical assessments of the government's policy or activities. In the course of these years, which we have been in this new system, you can say that this works very well, and this time too. The basic assessment of the functioning of the Agency’s fiscal policy can well be shared. The economic situation has made it possible to achieve a significant deficit in the achievement of budgetary policy objectives, and at the same time the Agency rightly draws attention to the fact that the sustainability gap, our original major problem at the beginning of this parliamentary term and even before, has not been eliminated. At the beginning of the period, when the sustainability gap was around 10 billion, according to the latest report by the Ministry of Finance, it is now around 9 billion. This assessment was not yet known at the time of the publication of this report by the Inspectorate. However, overall, VTV estimates that the structural deficit in public finances has not improved significantly during this parliamentary term, and this is true of the importance of this workload, which we all face regardless of party status and the government. With regard to the sustainability gap, it is clear that this is strongly influenced not only by how thrifty the government is but also by how effective it is in collecting revenue. In terms of revenue collection, the big question is how the employment rate develops, how many people we have at work, and hence how secure tax revenues are, and, of course, how much or how little money we have to spend on unemployment. It is equally clear that it also affects how successful tax policy is. The broad tax base referred to earlier in Mr Haraka's speech is an important starting point in principle in order to keep tax rates as low as possible and thus to maintain a reasonable tax burden. When the government started to set its own programme as the objective of not increasing the tax rate, we are in a situation where during this parliamentary term the tax rate is falling by a couple of percentage points when looking at the overall tax rate. How it is distributed by income group or tax group is still a matter of its own. This has been the subject of several debates by the Parliament. Thus, the total reduction in the tax rate in the national product, including tax revenue, amounts to around EUR 4 billion, i.e. very large sums, and these will of course also have their own impact on the sustainability gap. The Audit Office highlights its criticisms of the risks associated with social and regional reform. The need for social and regional reform has, of course, been identified several times, and at the same time this government has also set itself the goal of making up to 3 billion savings in the sustainability gap through the social welfare reform. It is now worth reading the criticism and assessment of the Audit Office very carefully and carefully in this regard. After all, the Agency expresses its concern that cost-enhancing mechanisms will operate more automatically in this government reform than the mechanisms that bring savings. This is an observation that has been received from experts in various meetings of the committee, and one can say that the major cause of concern for the social welfare reform is that the original objective of closer cooperation between primary and special care is not being achieved in the model under discussion, and a large part of the savings is based on this closer integration of special care and primary health care. By replacing this market model, which will lead to a weakening of cooperation between primary health care and specialised medical care, I can estimate that the Agency’s warnings are very worthy. Above all, we know that we have a national weakness vis-à-vis our neighbouring country Sweden, that we tend to rush reforms quickly and avoid careful, diverse impact assessments. And while there is, of course, the logic of a multiparty government, when a decision has been made, the government is in a way forced to move it forward. The Audit Committee will carefully review the report of the Audit Office and will work to ensure that all aspects are openly discussed and evaluated, and on this basis, also in consultation with this debate here, it will submit to Parliament for decision the report and the related proposals on the basis of this report on the budgetary policy of the Audit Office.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u124	Madam President! There is an interesting report ahead of us, and I am sure that the Committee on Audit will also have a very interesting work to do when it comes to these matters again. Of course, it is worth noting that the report clearly states that, for example, the fact that part of the economic objectives will be achieved is purely due to the fact that the world had a favourable wind and the economic situation improved in the middle of the parliamentary term. But what is also significant here is that it is clear here that the important thing that we should all look at here is that the sustainability gap will not be reduced during this government's term. In other words, the legacy of the next government, which will be in a tight position, will be almost the same degree of sustainability deficit as when this government starts. We were talking about 10 billion, now it is estimated that it will be 9 billion, or in practice the same. In other words, structural reforms have not been made, and this very important, concrete issue, the reduction of the sustainability gap, has been forgotten by this government. And there is now a great deal to do with the situation of the war, as Mr Harakka said in his own speech and Mr Heinäluoma in his previous good speech. It is true that it would have been one of the major structural reforms on which the government heavily placed buttons. But the fact is that if we look at either the unanimous part of the report by the Committee on Finance or the opinion of the Committee on Audit on freedom of choice or the VTV report, for example, which we are talking about here, it is precisely stressed that it may be that instead of creating a savings of EUR 3 billion in the future, it may be that the sign will turn into a different direction, i.e. the cost will increase accordingly. And these cries, the cries of distress that have already been said in the parliamentary committees, in part even in the unanimous sections, and now, as this report points out, have not been taken seriously here. And it may be that now that we are predicting a decline in economic growth in the years to come and we have done so, it will be very difficult. And what is worrying here has also been the government's choice of values in this rising economy. They have been such that growth does not belong to everyone. Tax reductions have been generously given to the owners of large forests and the recipients of large millions of heritage, while at the same time the poorest have been cut off. We have some rather tragic information that today, as a result of these value choices, the most disadvantaged, the most vulnerable, are getting worse. And all of this has been in the direction of economic growth as a result of the government's value choices. So with these words, President, this will be an interesting hearing.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u125	Madam President! The budgetary control and audit report of the National Audit Office gives an objective picture of how the economy has been managed in this country, as Mr Heinäluoma described this institution well and the purpose of its reports. It is good that we have an institution that looks at the whole without glasses of any colour and clearly looks at it as a whole. We have a very different situation at the moment than when this current government started. In fact, five hard targets were set to put the economy in order. It was decided that the employment rate should be raised to 72%, the number of employed persons increased by 110,000. It was also decided that the tax rate would not be raised during this period, i.e. a clear change was made at the time when the Minister of Finance was Antti Rinne, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u131	Looks like there's a need for a debut here. I would ask those Members who wish to use the reply to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u132	When Mrs Rinne cannot be involved in this debate because of illness, I would like to speak on her behalf. Mr Heinonen's congregated history writing was insurmountable in the speeches made this year. During the last parliamentary term, Mr Rinne had a short period of time, more than six months, as Minister of Government, so that I believe that his guilt over the possible mistakes of Prime Minister Katainen's government or the mistakes of Prime Minister Stubb's government is extremely misleading and totally unnecessary. Especially when it is done by a party representative who has been in government for almost 30 years — almost 30 years in government except for one short break between 2003 and 2007. When I think back to all the information we have been told here, I remember that during the referendum, more than EUR 110 billion of public debt has been taken over by the state alone — with the coalition in government at this time. So I think it would be reasonable for the speeches to be as objective as possible and taking into account the various aspects, that they do not need to be balanced, especially when there are representatives who are absent because of the illness.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u133	Madam President! It has also been admitted in this Chamber by the Social Democrats that, at the request of you and the Left Alliance, the entry to which I referred just now was included in the government programme of the last government, namely that if savings are made, a tax evasion of the same size should be made. This so-called fifty-fifty entry came from the Social Democrats — whether Urpilainen was then a responsible negotiator or who negotiated it in your party, but by you it came there — and it has been said quite commonly that, in the event that the economy was starting to move, we had taxes tightened, that is to say, the feathers were tightened at the time when the horse was about to get into the race or gallop. It does not leave when taxes are being tightened, and this is what happened. Mr President! In the next speech, I will ask a small question.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u134	Mr President! Yes, Mr Heinonen's history is now on a very strange track.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u139	Mr President! What happened during the last parliamentary term? First, the deficits were negotiated too little and then it was agreed that half of the tax evasion and half of the savings. The tax squeezes came true, the savings only partially. During the slope, we pensioners received a free fishing card. That's all the concrete stuff I could find. President! Mr Heinonen's excellent speech can only be supplemented by saying, in May 2017, that Mr Rinte's prediction that the government will not achieve its employment objectives and will not achieve its indebtedness targets in any way and will not reach its employment rate target. These prophecies were completely wrong. After all, the government has now achieved these goals. I also think it is worth saying that it is not always worth stigmatizing the government's misconceptions, because the truth is different.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u140	Mr President! So my wish for us to talk about the future was not realized, but that was where representatives Heinonen and Ala-Nissila were stuck in the past. I am just wondering about a cyclical policy which apparently was supported by the coalition for the previous government, that the recession should have had to cut and worsen the situation twice as much as before. That doesn't make sense. But if we are talking about the matter itself — not only did my wish not come true to talk about this report, but we have heard about vocational education — see page 11. There are now nine points in table form which were the government's budgetary objectives. There are nine of them, and six of them came true. The three I have mentioned have not come true, Mr Ala-Nissila, unlike the ones you were banging with the suspenders there. The objective of the structural deficit has not been achieved, the debt level will continue to rise after 2021 — you will not get anywhere — and the sustainability gap will be as high as when you start. Nine to six, that's not a very good grade.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u141	Madam President! A few corrections to Mr Heinäluoma's speech. First of all, when small businesses were given entrepreneurship reduction, in practice most of the benefits went to barbers and hairdressers, small workshops,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u148	Mr President! I call on Mr Hoskonen to take a calm look at this pharmacy reduction, for example, the calculations of Parliament's information service, which clearly shows that the greatest benefits are the most wealthy entrepreneurs and that the small hairdressers you have mentioned — these who should be helped — will then really benefit minimally from this reduction. Similarly, Mr Hoskonen, your tax reduction for millions of people, your tax reduction for large forest owners — even the government itself, in its own background papers, states that they do not bring any jobs. After all, they are the values of this government that favour the rich. And Mr Heinonen completely forgot when he said that there was no tightening of taxation, that, yes, I think, in your municipality of residence in that market, many families of children might wonder to Mrs Heinonen why our taxes were tightened.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u151	Mr President! The taxation of labour is not tightened by any of the Finns; the taxation of labour is not tightened by any of the Finns. That is what I said, Mr Viitanen. Let's stick to the truth in this room.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u154	Mr President! I would like to take part in this debate by saying that when I left the Minister of Finance's duties, the surplus of the state budget was over EUR 3 billion. No subsequent finance minister has been able to present a surplus budget to this Chamber. It is a responsible policy, Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u157	Madam President! Representative Heinäluoma, when you started as Minister of Finance, first you abolished the property tax from the richest in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u160	Mr President! Mr Kankaanniemi is an excellent speaker when it comes to history, but he is such a modest man that he always forgets his part. In fact, he was in the government when decisions were made to bring the capital tax to 25%, while before that, the holders of large assets paid more than 50% of the capital tax. You were, Congressman Kankaanniemi, in the board of directors. Since you are so modest, I would now like to say on your behalf that at the time of capital taxation the Christians, of whom you were president, were in the government. Congratulations on that. As far as this big line is concerned, I would like to suggest that we now move on to the future, because now this history section has probably become sufficiently clear for everyone. We should now talk about what is really being done about this sustainability gap when the fact is that it has not narrowed down, and that is a problem for all of us. The sustainability gap is in the same order of magnitude as when this government started. I do not blame anyone, but I say that this will be before the next government and we should consider what the reforms are to ensure that our children are proud of today's decision-makers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u161	Madam President! In recent history, there are indeed two finance ministers in Finland who have been able to stop the long-standing bad, rapid debt, and we will see at what stage their name will then be made public in this Chamber. That is what Mr Heinäluoma did not want to say — but I think he knows them. So the main benefits have been the 120,000 people who have been employed, but I agree that now we need to look to the future and look at how we can meet the sustainability challenges of our economy in the future. Our age structure is such that it requires measures so that we can take care of every Finnish in the future. Social security and social security play an important role, but we also ensure that economic growth continues and that employment continues to develop in this way. If we are unable to raise the employment rate from the current 72 to 75 next season and preferably from then on, then quite a few of these objectives and fundamental principles, which exist in the Finnish welfare society, have then been called into question.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u162	Let us take this briefly, four speeches, and then we shall go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u163	Madam President! Looking at the list of the last parliamentary term, it is rather sad to see because of the deterioration of the budgetary position of 38.5 billion in the last parliamentary term. The government owed more than 20 billion, the municipalities about 7 to 8 billion, the state assets were sold, and the cashier was reduced. It became this deterioration of the budgetary position of EUR 38.5 billion. But as far as economic growth is concerned, I looked at Eurostat's statistics. According to Eurostat statistics, the European economy started to pick up, and the curve started to rise in early 2013. That is when the economy started to rise on the European continent. It was not a violent but clear growth and even better in our neighbouring countries. Finally, Mr President, the fact that, when we look at economic development, the 120 000 jobs that have become more have had a very positive impact on the lives of about half a million people, with additional income for the family. And in many families last Christmas it was truly Christmas when there was genuine money for Christmas gifts to children.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u164	Madam President! I really would have liked Mr Heinonen not to have been so cruel to Jyrki Katai and to Stubb. In fact, during the time of their government, that is, during the time of the famous last government, these tax evasions were, among other things, a solidarity tax for the richest, an increase in the capital tax, which brought justice overall, and at the same time, for example, unemployment protection was increased by EUR 100 for the disadvantaged. This is what happened. And now this government is doing exactly the opposite, which means that it is tightening taxes on families with children. Neither can Mr Heinonen talk away about the fact that the child allowance has been abolished for this year. He can't talk it out, even though he's trying hard.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u167	Madam President! It would be nice to keep the truth of what others have said in this Chamber. I have not once spoken what you, Mr Viitanen, are saying here. I said that the taxation of anyone's work would not increase, and that is true. The taxation of any Finnish labour will not increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u170	Mr President! The four facts that need to be stated here are: First of all, there is the fact that there is talk of labour taxation in relation to the general tightening of personal taxation. The abolition of child-reduction has led to a situation where low-income school families have clearly lost their earnings. And then it exceeds the tax reduction on this work many times over. Families that can no longer afford children’s hobbies have disappeared in this reform and during this government. The second fact is that the previous Minister of Finance, who stopped indebtedness in Finland, is sitting in the second row. He's Eero Heinäluoma. During his term, the debt of the Finnish state was reduced, and it was very blessed that the next finance minister, Jyrki Katainen, could use the leeway that his predecessor Heinäluoma had left him. The third fact — and an important fact in the minutes — is that pharmacies are legally private companies and that is why every pharmacist enjoys this completely unreasonable tax advantage which this government
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u171	Mr President! To the extent that Mr Heinäluoma, although a young man, will remember that in 1991 after Holker, Liikanen, Louekoski, Finland's economy was in a disaster. We did 92-93 capital and corporate tax reform,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u176	Mr President! I would not like to continue this history story now, but when Mr Kankaanniemi talks about wealth tax for the second time, it is worth telling us what happened then. I have told its representative Mr Kangasa before, but he has a little selective memory in this regard. The first board of Vanhanen made very important tax decisions and included the fact that dividends were taxed, Mr Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u179	Mr President! When we are here on the archaeology side, on the recollection side, when, indeed, during the time of the Jäätteenmäki—Old One’s government, we were both negotiating, it was also decided to consider the property tax. It was unfair, it did not work, it was not targeted correctly, and it only became that $70 million, but then it was tightened up on the dividend tax. But I do remember the figures differently from Mr Heinäluoma, that blackmail would have been about threefold, that is, just under 200 million, that...
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u182	My final reply, Mr Viitanen. Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u183	Mr President! I had to raise my ears and see if we could get the news today that Mr Kankaanniemi has returned to the government. For the second time in this period, Mr Kankaanniemi appears to be in the government, because his rhetoric is once again that the world's greatest horror is that there is a SDP and he even deplored the fact that the SDP wants to improve the status of pensioners. He called it populism. I say that I speak with so many pensioners, President, these days and they are really concerned about their livelihoods and they have considered it very important that we have spoken in favour of a person who receives a small pension getting justice instead of leaving a hole in the bag of money as a result of this government policy. This is what Mr Kankaanniemi then calls populism. He was in exactly the same line when he himself, and Prime Minister Sipilä too, sat in the government this season to raise the gas tax and all that you did during this reign. Now you are a little bit.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u184	Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u185	Mr President! If we return for a moment to this report by the Audit Office of the State Economy, instead of remembering who opened the bagel bag in the 1980s and who did not, it is important to note page 11 of the report on the extent to which the government's fiscal policy objectives have been successful and to what extent they have not. This is an independent, objective assessment, and it would help us in this debate to establish, instead of such a history-locked argument, that page 11 contains a table format which should not be overwhelming to any of us, the fiscal policy objectives of the nine governments, six of which have been realised and three have not been fulfilled. And they are the most important for the future, for the 2020s, and the most important for the next governments, above all the sustainability gap that the government promised to eliminate, but which is almost equal to the next one. And what is particularly sad about this is, of course, that the next government will not enjoy such a favourable economic climate as this government. This government would have had the opportunity to do the right thing in terms of economic policy, to be able to do what was promised, that is to say, to genuinely break the debt in 2021. It now seems that after this government it will not happen at the end of the next government either. The second thing that is important here is to see, as it were, a fact check: I shall return to this entrepreneurial reduction. We have an estimate calculated by the Parliamentary Information Service, but we also have the publication published by Yleisradio in November.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u188	Mr President! Personally, I was neither prepared nor prepared for any kind of debut here, but it has certainly been nice to listen to this, and it has become quite the right kind of government—opposition. We've been in history, we've been trying to visualize what's coming and howl or howl what's been done lately. But, as a whole, we do have a fine institution here in the State Audit Office and that, in its current form, it is an institution which is subject to Parliament, as a fine institution — one might say — a great political innovation of the 21st century — is also an institution of the Audit Committee, the chairman of which is here. So when such good discussion is made of such a document, then the truth stands there somewhere in the middle. This can be used by representatives of both the government and the opposition. As I am from the other side, I dare say that the whole, the big picture, in this booklet, the meritable little book, is, however, a plus for the questions of financial supervision during this parliamentary term. But for one thing, which in itself is a small detail here, just a few rows of things: Because of my mission, I don't give the government style points from the beginning of the government. Right here in connection with the financing of Yle, it is said: ‘In the run-up to the election period, the framework principles would, however, remain unchanged in order to ensure the credibility
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u189	Madam President! One of the worst phrases I have heard in this house is that politics is done in time, but that is the way it is. That's where we are. And when this The Sipilä government started in the spring of 2015, when public finances were in a very bad position. We have to admit it. We were on the Commission's watch list, and two of the three institutions operating in Europe, which assessed the state of public finances and the financial position of the Finnish government, were already looking down the thumb. One saved us, I don't remember the name of that company now, but yet two credit ratingrs already showed us down, which would have meant that the interest rate on the government debt would have gone up and one per cent of the EUR 100 billion would have taken us out of the billion budget. This was the starting point, wasn't it? As I recall, it was Standard & Poor’s, which still showed us the thumbs-up that we were still at the old rating level, which means that we don't look minus, but we're the same. I think it saved us that we did not get caught up in the pragmatism of paying more interest on the debts we have already assumed. This was the starting point, and in the Government Programme 4 billion were cut, 4 billion were cut, many reforms were made. Whether all the reforms will take place, we do not yet know, but yet, for example, the improvement in the financial position of central government is a huge deal, and most definitely, the 120,000 more jobs have now been created. When the Sipilä-Orpo government started, we had an employment rate of 67.7%. Now it is more than 72 at the moment, which means that it has risen by more than 4 percentage points. However, every percentage point with an increase in the employment rate amounts to some 30,000 jobs, and in central government finances — I do not remember exactly — more than one billion have an impact on the budgetary position of the one percentage point when 30,000 people are employed. One percent is about 30,000 jobs. That's practically what it is. At the moment, when you look at where things are happening in Finland, it is happening everywhere in Finland. It is the huge change that has taken place. I have wondered why, for example, attempts have been made to curb deforestation on the demo side, that we should not hack or set up an artificial roof, even though we have huge forest resources according to the Finnish Forest Research Institute, the current Luke. We still have about a million hectares of first thinnings to do, which would mean about 50 million mots of felling. We still have that lazy homework to do, even though we have increased the pick-ups. So the opportunity for our forests to offer more work is almost endlessly good for such a small nation. But you are the only ones who still want to impose restrictions. That's impossible for me to understand. However, Finland has more than a hundred years of forest research traditions. At the end of the 19th century this started, and now we have accurate statistics on it. Every year, you can search the Forest Research Institute, the current Luke, for public information, in your free time. But in any case, when you look at this development of central government finances and public finances, you can say that structural reforms have been carried out, that more than 300 standards have been dismantled. It is too little, I admit it openly, but not everything can be done at this time either. More should have been dismantled, absolutely must be dismantled, and the other is that the rigidity of the labour market needs to be removed. There must be more springs in the labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u192	Mr President! I would like to continue this debate first by defending the government from the criticisms of the Inspectorate. When the Audit Office refers to the government’s fiscal policy as being faulty that the spending limits rule itself has been complied with but that changes have been made to the spending limits rules, the change that has been made in the Board and which has been approved by Parliament concerns the financing of the Finnish Broadcasting Company. This change was made on the basis of parliamentary preparation and was based on safeguarding the independence of the Finnish Broadcasting Company, in exactly the same way that the independence of the Inspectorate has previously been mentioned. It is very important that the Finnish Broadcasting Company under Parliament can operate independently and that its funding is secured and, in order to make this possible, the parliamentary parties in joint preparation concluded that the funding of the Finnish Broadcasting Company should be kept outside the spending limits. This does not create a situation in which, when the government is unhappy with the programmes, it can take money from the YLE and give it to other good purposes, as it were, and in this way it can operate within the same framework. That is to say, what the Audit Office is criticising the government for is the right solution, that is to say, to return to the situation that has been in place during the previous frameworks, that spending on the public radio is not part of the spending limits, and that is an important element of independence. I believe that it is justified for Parliament to say this separately in order to make this clear to the Audit Office. There is no room for reproach on the part of the government. I will return to this debate, which has, of course, been refreshing, perhaps with regard to the history of history, that it is not a question of imposing restrictions on the use of forests for forestry policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u197	Madam President! This was a very good forward-looking speech because, of course, what Mr Heinäluoma has just said is the debate that should perhaps have been emphasised even more, because we are in an explicit situation where I myself started this part, that concern is quite great for the future, because the sustainability deficit objective has not been successfully achieved. On the contrary, this government leaves a sustainability gap as large as it was when it started. We know that the economy will not grow forever, but that there are worrying signs of waning, which leads us to the conclusion that the next government will continue to be tough, and then it should be possible to make fair choices of value. Now that this period has come to a point where the value choices have not been made even at a rising stage — when growth has been accompanied by economic winds, among other things — growth has not been shared by everyone, and this has made it worse, on the other hand, inequality, income differentials have been increased. Of course, it will cost a great deal of money in the future, because people will be excluded and young people will be excluded. It's going to be an expensive bill, so to speak. I have been very concerned about this whole, and that is why it is important that in the years to come we can carry out the important structural reforms, we can reform family leave, we can reform education, free second stage, all of these. They are very important so that we can then continue on the paths of knowledge and work and on a certain sustainable policy against inequality. But the more value choices we have made in this situation, the more difficult the challenge is, the more money we may have gone into favouring the good people with tax cuts. This is the big worry and the big picture I've been thinking about myself. Mr Heinonen has already left, but it was a good thing that he now admitted that the taxation of families with children will be tightened by removing the child allowance, that is a fact. That's one choice of values. He quite rightly said that it was good for people to have a job, but at the same time he forgot that for all people this too is not a solution. We have a large number of pensioners who cannot benefit from this good thing, that the economy is growing, that jobs are being created. Their human livelihood must be cared for — the veterans, all these people and the weaker in general. What is the answer to them? Nothing. The answer is that the benefits have been cut. The benefits have been cut and, at the same time, there is talk in some weekend talk that we should do something and combat poverty, and yet this government has had no chance of doing so. As regards pensioners, for example, there are quite a lot of discussions at Tammelintori in Tampere about the fact that the price of housing is rising, the government's index freezes are looking for a purse,
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u198	Madam President! Let's just take it easy. In 1991 and 2015, there were very similar situations — although there are certain big differences — in the sense that 91, when the Aho government started, the country was in a very deep crisis due to the policies of the previous period and of a somewhat longer period. We were in a very dangerous situation. The same was true in 2015, i.e. the previous Red and Red Governments had adopted a policy that had led to an almost catastrophic situation for the nation as a whole, for public finances and also for private finances. In this context, at the beginning of the 91st period, all tax reforms were carried out. All forms of taxation were reviewed and revised into value added tax, property tax, income tax and capital and corporation tax. A comprehensive reform of the capital and corporation tax was carried out, harmonising and condensing the tax base, and then setting the capital and corporate tax rate at the same level. Then they were separated later. I don't know if it was wise to do it or not, but this has happened. And the fact that this was done with regard to corporation tax led to a huge rise in Nokia, led to a huge rise in the forest industry and increased small business activity. So we had a huge change since the years 93 to 94, when that tax reform had got off to a good start and had made a real difference, and that was a step forward. Unfortunately, then, Lipponen's first government cut basic security in all its aspects very severely, and it caused such poverty traps, which we still have problems with many of them, and also failed to deal with these over-indebted ones that should have been dealt with at the time. Well, this is where we were now. Finally, with regard to the property tax, the problems of its property tax system should have been corrected and not eliminated in the course of 2006. It would have been wise, of course, to have done it in another way, but it was now as it was, and our ministers at the time gave themselves to the model that was then chosen. Of course, this would require a correction in certain respects. It favours well-earned entrepreneurs for a little bit in vain. But what I wonder is that the Social Democrats are against entrepreneurship reduction in such a categorical way.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u203	Let's get on with it. There are only a few people who have been asked to speak, and they still happen to be from different groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u204	Mr President! Indeed, this special report by the National Audit Office states that, despite the growth of the global economy, the sustainability gap is still in the order of 3%, and according to the own calculations published last month by the Ministry of Finance, the sustainability gap is likely to increase to 4% in the coming years as global economic growth collapses. The trend in this respect is very worrying; it must be said. During the electoral period, central government indebtedness has slowed down significantly but has not stopped completely, especially given the one-off income related to last year's budget. During this parliamentary term, and especially in the first half of that period, the government has taken good and right measures, including a general reduction in income tax. Unfortunately, especially with regard to families with children, things have gone in the wrong direction. Income tax on families with children has even tightened since the government abolished the child income tax deduction, and this decision meant annual net income losses of up to EUR 400 per year for families with children with low and medium incomes. This is a very serious stain on the tax plate of the government, and it is also likely to reduce the birth rate, which was rightly referred to earlier. Mr President! In order to fill the sustainability gap, the government’s government programme set a very large, significant target of saving EUR 3 billion in social and health care expenditure. And the original goal recorded in the Government Programme was to ensure the integration of primary health care services, then to ensure the funding of the services and only in the final phase to increase freedom of choice after detailed experiments. This was a good idea and a good one, but unfortunately the reality has proved to be quite different. As Mr Kankaaniemi said earlier, on the night of November 2015, in the presence of a number of key government ministers, a sad cow trade was crushed, the content of which has had to be printed on many occasions during almost the entire parliamentary term. I don't think it's done yet. I don't think it is. After all, there are only just over two months left in Parliament. This savings target of EUR 3 billion is a mere memory, and it remains to be seen what the cost of this will be in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u205	Mr President! A financial sage once said that when you understand history, you also understand the future, and now in this debate it has come up from the opposition that Esko Aho's government took debt. If you lose your memory and do not remember the reasons why you went there, then I'm a little sorry about the level of financial expertise. You don't want to join the economists after that. At least you should stay as far away from those people as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u212	Mr President! I am not going to continue this history debate because these archaeological statements, which are being used here in a very fine way, seem to be enough. However, as far as history is concerned, if economic policy solutions are presented as government tax solutions and do not have exchange-rate solutions at all, then a very incomplete picture of the overall picture of the economy, both today and the past decades will remain. If we don't talk about ecu solutions, we don't talk about devaluation, we don't talk about floating the Finnish markka, it's not going to be a real history story. But I will not go into it any longer, because that is not what we are here for today, but, if I am right, Mr President, this is the report of the Audit Office on the fiscal policy of this government, this Sipilä government. This is not really the case with Jyrki Katainen of the Coalition Party or Alexander Stubb of the Coalition Party, nor with Matti Vanhanen’s second government’s fiscal policy line, not even with Matti Vanhanen’s first government, nor with their fiscal policy line, nor with Paavo Lipponen or Esko Aho’s government’s fiscal policy line, nor, I believe, with Harri Holker’s government’s fiscal policy line, but now the subject of the debate should be: The fiscal policy line of the Sipilä Government.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u225	Mr President! I followed this session from my office. I had asked Mr Viitanen to stay at least for the third time in the truth, not to put the wrong words in the other person's mouth, but he did not. For the third time, he needed to put in the mouth of another representative false words that he has not said in this Chamber, and that is why I wanted to come here and correct them. I myself have said here that the taxation of earned income does not increase in the Finns. I also took a note from the Taxpayers saying: ‘The tax burden on earnings will be reduced by EUR 130 million as a basic reduction, a reduction in labour income and a reduction in pension income. “ In addition, index adjustments are made to the taxation of earned income corresponding to an increase in earnings levels, so that the average increase in earnings does not increase the income tax rate. The burden of payment of employees' social security contributions of a tax-like nature will remain somewhat unchanged as the employee's earnings-related pension insurance contributions increase by 0.4 percentage points and the unemployment insurance contribution decreases by 0.4 percentage points respectively. The increase in the municipal tax rate increases income tax in 46 municipalities. That decision was made in the municipalities. And in five municipalities, the tax rate is reduced. That decision has also been made in the municipalities. The quote continues: ‘In total, wage taxation remains stable at the level of the previous year. For low incomes, the tax rate will be slightly reduced. The tax percentages of pensioners will also remain roughly unchanged in 2019, taking into account index increases in occupational pensions.’ This is what I've been referring to. This is what I've been talking about. And please, Mr Viitanen, for the fourth time in this Chamber do not speak the truth that has been altered, put in the mouth of another representative words that he has not spoken. I've been talking about the taxation of work. The taxation of labour will not increase this year for anyone in Finland. Be honest in this Chamber, Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u226	Mr President! It was quite pleasant to listen to Mr Heinonen's speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u231	Mr President! On 20 March 2015, the Social Democrats published their own cut list for this parliamentary term, Mr Viitanen, a month before the last parliamentary elections. President Rinne announced on 20.3.15 that the Social Democrats committed themselves to cutting public expenditure, state expenditure, EUR 3 billion, EUR 2 billion in advance immediately and then in a year's time, and also announced that the Social Democrats will increase taxation by one billion during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u236	Mr President! This has now been the subject of this economic debate, and I am pleased to see that the role of forests in improving the Finnish economy during this parliamentary term has been very important. It is also worth remembering that the forest generates all the other production that is in Finland in its own way. We have two leading forest machine manufacturers, Ponsse and John Deere, both operating in Eastern Finland, one operating in Vierema and the other in Joensuu, and many other small machinery manufacturers producing different types of forest machinery, Kesla Joensuu, for example, has a large number of them. We need the chemical industry, the electricity, the energy industry, the extractive industry — ores, we need to be able to make metals and so on. But this debate is why I am a little annoyed that it does not always seem to be easy to recognize the facts. Indeed, when I was visiting Iisalme last year, the chairman, MP Antti Rinte's comment that 72.8 million mots have an upper limit and there is no going over it — that's what Savo's Sanomat read, and I checked out the same thing about Iisalme Sanomas — that it was true — it was quite a move to go to the Savon Finnpulp residence, because all the mots that are currently being beaten, every single mot, are reserved, everything goes straight to the factory. There's not a single factory's extra raw material for that. Everything is taken and the mot has been sold, and they have an address already at the moment the head of the motor will cut off the tree, the address will be known at that moment. So the message from Antti Rinte to the choirmen was that there's not going to be a new factory, I'm sorry, boys. But that's okay. I thank you, Antti Rinne, that we now have information in Eastern Finland, which is Antti Rinte's model. That's what we know now. And this rural future election yesterday, whether it was, at the Old Student House, that your representative said that he did not really know how these statistics of forest scientists went — whether it was unclear or less unclear, I do not remember that form of expression, but nevertheless. That is the only thing in this country that I am sure is very good at, [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u237	Mr President! I was more hopeful a moment ago that I would have wished Mr Hoskonen had now said the important thing that more carbon sinks were needed. That's what we're missing. I was already prepared to take the Hoskonen, Rinte and Pekkarinen common line here, to the very wise line, which Mrs Heinäluoma spoke about in her own speech. But, President-in-Office, I do not need to continue this archaeological review and debate by Kankaanniemi as such. I would just like to say this now, so that there is no false impression for people who, at some point in time, consider these allegations about the policy of the Social Democrats to be incorrect, they are not true. I hope, President, that, among other things, this document, the Socialist alternative budget, [ The speaker shows the Social Democrats' alternative budget in his hands]
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u238	All right, it looks like the conversation is going on very old tracks. — Mr Hoskonen, you now have the next floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u239	Mr President! Indeed, what this report refers to is extremely important for the consolidation of central government finances and public finances. There are therefore a lot of good events in that report because the national economy's engine, or forests in Finland, is now in good use — not yet good enough, but a good road is going. As far as carbon sinks are concerned, the carbon sinks will grow as we make cutting bags away: we will thin out our forests and clean up the seedlings. The theoretical maximum growth of Finnish forests is likely to be around 130 to 140 million mots if we put all forests in optimal condition. There is no such thing as eldorado, but even in such a way that all the densest thinnings would be done away with, the oldest forests would be reformed, and the trout would be put in pretty good shape, we would reach a level of 130 million mots. Then the carbon sink would be much greater than the present moment, as the carbon stock would grow at a fierce rate, because we always beat less than the growth is. So both the carbon sink grows when the forest is managed, and the carbon reservoir grows on the side. This isn't astronomy. This is simple math, and I understand it, too. It can't be hard. And as far as these excellent ministers that have been in the centre are concerned, I remember when Minister of Economic Affairs Pekkarinen in his office enthusiastically defended the investments of the Finnish forest industry across Finland. It was always a pleasure to listen to those speeches when I was a hunter before I was even a Member of Parliament in this house. When I listened to the car’s radio when I was driving the baker to the office, it was nice to listen when a minister on the radio testified that we needed the sawmill there and the pulp mill here, and if we could get a small house factory over there, it would even be good. It was a bitter piece for many when investments were made in the countryside, but hopefully now there is wisdom in this house that we all understand from one side of this hall to the next, that they will come to the new house factories, or whatever it is, and that we will use this Finnish raw material and not hang ourselves on some 72.8 million mot that doesn't even exist – except on the Iisalme and Savon Sanomat pages.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u240	Mr President! In order to avoid misinformation in the parliamentary minutes, let me read a clear quote here: ‘The SDP will publish its budget policy on 20 March 2015 presented by the party presidentAnttiRinne. The party is pushing for an additional adjustment of EUR 4 billion. According to the party, adjustments of 3 billion should be agreed immediately, the last billion in spring 2017. Of the EUR 3 billion package, EUR 2 billion would go to the expenditure side and the rest to the revenue side. The EUR 2 billion spending adjustment list included in the SDP’s EUR 3 billion package at the beginning of the Government’s term of office looks like this: EUR 400 million in trade subsidies, EUR 800 million in partial freeze on index-linked State expenditure, EUR 270 million in the organisation and financing of the sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture’—institutions and training—‘Employment-supported social securityreformsEUR250 million,savings in administrative andintcostsEUR250 million,savings in social securityreforms brought about by social and financial reform.’ There's more down there, but I won't go any further. This is a fact presented by President Rinne a month before the last parliamentary elections. Your four alternative budgets, which you have made, are completely at odds with the election promises you have made. Completely at odds with the election promises you made, these are your alternative budgets.
ParlaMint-FI_2019-01-10-ps-139.u241	On behalf of the Committee on Audit, I would like to thank you for an excellent debate so far, and in particular for the excellent contributions made by the Sipilä Government to the success of the fiscal policy.
